We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 87 TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
Women’s tennis preps
for season opener
Coach Roland Thornqvist is piecing 
together Florida’s lineup, pg. 14
UF alumnus to travel the world
By this weekend,  he will have traveled to all 193 UN member states , pg. 4
State bill aims to cut taxes for tampons
If passed, the bill will take effect in 2018, pg. 3FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Alex Becsey signed his 
lease, he was concerned that no one 
showed him the blueprints to his fu-ture unit.
“They wouldn’t show blueprints, 
like the dimensions of the room, which was a little bothersome,” the 18-year-old said. 
In the Fall, Becsey expects to move into the Standard at Gainesville, a monstrous building on the corner of 
West University Avenue and North-
west 13th Street that has yet to be constructed.
At the beginning of the semes-ter, 1,200 bedrooms are expected to be ready for residents, wrote Cody Nichelson, a spokesperson for Land-mark Properties, in an email.
But a similar promise was made 
last year to students moving into The Standard complexes in Boone, North Carolina, and Knoxville, Ten-
nessee, the Knoxville News Sentinel reported.
Many of them, however, ended 
up being sent to nearby hotels and 
apartments while Landmark Proper-ties, the company that develops The Standard complexes across the na-tion, ﬁ  nished completing its delayed, 
already-leased apartments, he said. Despite past delays, The Standard construction on time
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
AFTER THE STORM
A crew on Monday works to remove a large oak tree that fell on a house, located at 2620 SW Second Ave., 
after strong winds knocked it down on Sunday. Due to the tree’s large size, the crew had to dismantle it branch by branch and then cut the logs into smaller pieces before throwing them into a wood chipper.
THE APP WAS CREATED 
BY THE CAREER 
RESOURCE CENTER.
By Madison Hamilton 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF students strapping on their 
high heels and tugging on their 
business jackets will have access to 
a new app during Career Showcase today and Wednesday.
The app, called UF Career Ser-
vices, was created by the Career 
Resource Center and is free for 
about 6,000 students who are plan-ning to attend the event. The app also includes a map of about 300 
employers’ booths in the Stephen 
C. O’Connell Center, said Liza Al-
lison, a graduate assistant with the center. During the event, students can learn about employers’ educa-
tion requirements and what they’re 
hiring for.
“(The app) is live, and it’s out 
right now,” Allison said.
Many students go to Career Showcase to learn about employ-
ers and make personal connec-tions, said UF business sophomore Lauren McAllister.
“Career Showcase is about ex-
posing myself to that high-intensity environment,” the 20-year-old said.
The event, to be held from 9 
a.m. to 3 p.m., is moving back to the O’Connell Center after it relo-cated to the Southwest Recreation Center in Fall due to construction on the O’Connell Center, Allison said.
“Working with the O’Connell 
Center is always a great experience because all of the knowledge they have and how much they care,” she said.
Students will meet with non-
technical employers today and technical employers Wednesday.
“One of the things we are al-
ways striving to do is to attract em-ployers that our students are look-ing to connect with,” Allison said.  UF introduces app 
for Career Showcase
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Members of the homeless com-
munity will receive 100 bicycles-
that were left behind by UF stu-
dents.
On Thursday, the bicycles will 
be given out at the local homeless shelter Grace Marketplace, said 
Theresa Lowe, executive director 
of the shelter. They will be used by 
homeless people who don’t have another mode of transportation to go to doctor’s appointments and 
job interviews.
“It’s a great way to get around,” 
Lowe said. “If you’re on foot, you can only go so far. With a bike, 
that expands your range quite a 
bit.”
The bicycles were donated by 
Mike Weber, the owner of Superi-
or Towing, she said. He bought the 
bicycles from UF’s auction service 
run by University Police. Weber refurbished the used bicycles and will present them at the shelter at 11 a.m.
Alex Touchton, 22, said he 
knows UPD occasionally takes bi-cycles left behind by students.
The bicycles left on campus 
during breaks probably aren’t that expensive, he said, adding the stu-dents who leave them probably don’t care. 
“I think it’s a good cause,” the 
UF chemistry senior said. “It’s a good program.”
Lowe said the homeless shelter 
has received bicycles in the past, but this will be the largest dona-tion to date. Weber started donat-ing a few bicycles every month for 
the past six months.
“It’s special to have this many 
bikes coming all at once,” Lowe 
said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  Shelter to receive 100 donated bicycles for homelessSEE STANDARD,  PAGE 8
They were left behind by studentsTenants displaced at other properties
LOCALWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club 
The Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, 
located at 1881 Natural Area 
Drive, Room 1031. Learn about Toastmasters’ program of public speaking and leadership achieve-ment. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Fahim AnwarFahim Anwar will be perform-ing stand-up comedy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Friday from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anwar is a talented comedian with multiple characters up his sleeve. He just wrapped season 5 of “Guy Code” 
for MTV, and his recent film and 
TV credits include “Neighbors,” “Kirstie,” “Rizzoli & Isles,” “New Girl,” “Chuck” and “Fun House.” You can see Anwar in Tina Fey’s new war comedy film based on Kim Barker’s memoir, “Whiskey Tango Foxtrot,” which was re-leased in March 2016. Currently, 
Fahim is working on his own 
one-hour special and performs for sold-out comedy clubs across the country.
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A 
Play for Sarah Bernhardt” from 
Friday to Sunday and Feb. 3 to Feb. 5 in Constans Theatre. This new play by Canadian playwright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the story of Talbot and Michaud, two Quebec City seminarians from opposing social classes with con-flicting ideas about life, religion 
and art. Tickets for the produc-
tion are $18 for the general pub-lic, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club is offering free lessons and danc-es every Monday and Friday. On Friday, the organization hosts two levels of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organization hosts 
two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. and social dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more information, find the organization on Facebook.
Gay Movie Night — Tab Hunter 
ConfidentialAt 7:30 p.m. on the last Friday 
of every month, the Pride 
Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St., hosts Gay Movie Night, which is a free service of the Pride Community Center. This Friday, the movie “Tab Hunter Confidential” will be shown. It is a documentary about the real Tab Hunter as he shares 
the whole story of a happy and 
healthy survivor of Hollywood’s roller coaster. A $2 donation is requested to help cover cost of snacks. Visit their Facebook page at facebook.com/135747915702/
‘Into the Open: What Animals 
Can Teach Us about Death’
On Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. at the 
Millhopper Branch Library, Jessica Pierce will speak on how judgments about animal life af-fect end-of-life care for our ani-mal companions. This event is the fifth in an eight-part speaker series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide” organized by 
UF’s Center for the Humanities 
and the Public Sphere. For more information, visit humanities.ufl.edu. 
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career ExpoThe annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo 
will be from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Feb. 8 in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers represent-ing the food, fiber, natural re-sources and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent employment as well as represen-
tatives of graduate programs and 
professional schools. All students are encouraged to attend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. CALS will host walk-in resume reviews in prepara-tion for the event from 9 a.m. to noon Monday in McCarty Hall D, Room 2025. For more informa-
tion, visit cals.ufl.edu. 
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to University Galleries in 
Gainesville Cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from January to March. Cuban muralists, danc-
ers, musicians, authors and aca-
demics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the 
event, Spring Break tips, infor-
mation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited quantities available), will be fea-tured. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.
ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-
design-challenge no later than Monday.
352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunityThe UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship 
to work with the management 
team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a re-sume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3
Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more in-formation or to request material, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@
ufsa.ufl.edu.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  70° LOW  42°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 87TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
TURNING THE PAGE
The Alligator Stands Tall
Join former Editors-in-Chief Jason Brown and 
Trey Csar alongside then-Chief News Editor 
Matthew Boedy, Ph.D., for this webinar looking 
back at The Alligator’s fight against the Family Protection Act and how the student newspaper became the sole news organization to challenge the case to the highest court in the land under legal counsel of Thomas Julin, First Amendment attorney and former editor of The Alligator.
- Learn more about events that inspired the 
newsroom to challenge the law and argue its constitutionality.
- Hear firsthand accounts of how staff faced 
threats, vandalism and lost revenue as it continued the battle even after other prominent news organizations dropped out.
- Revisit the newsroom atmosphere and discover 
how these experiences shaped students’ lives before and after graduation.
Wednesday, January 25 at 4  p.m.
freeconferencecall.com/wall/alligatoralumni
Dial-in: (515) 604-9588 Access Code: 815796
Ed Barber
Former General ManagerThomas Julin
First Amendment AttorneyMatthew Boedy
Former Chief News EditorTrey Csar
Former Editor-in-Chief
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
In Florida, tampons are consid-
ered a luxury item. A new bill in the 
Florida House of Representatives is trying to change that.
House Bill 63, ﬁ  led by Florida 
House Rep. and Democrat Katie Ed-wards in December, proposes that feminine hygiene products are nec-essary for women and should not be subject to Florida’s 6-percent sales tax. If passed, the law will exempt tampons, pads and similar items from the taxes starting Jan. 1, 2018.Republican Rep. Rene Plasen-
cia of District 50, co-sponsor of the bill, said he decided to support pro-
posal after many of his constituents 
requested the removal of tampon taxes.
“I thought to myself, ‘They don’t 
have a choice; they have to buy it,’” he said.
Plasencia, 44, said he thinks the 
bill is important, but only about 15 percent of bills actually pass 
into law. He believes the tax break 
would be reasonable.
“Why wouldn’t we include a tax 
break for something that women have to have?” Plasencia said. “It just seems unfair.”
HB63 has a companion bill in the 
Florida Senate, which may help the bill pass, Plasencia said.
Currently, only seven states have 
removed the sales tax from feminine hygiene products, according to The Council of State Governments. Last year, tax exemptions were passed in Connecticut, Illinois and New York.
Limited access to tampons and 
pads have dangerous repercussions, which include risk of infection, said UF assistant Professor Deepthi Varma, who specializes in women’s health.
“If feminine products are not 
easily available and are not afford-
able to all women, it can impact 
their health,” Varma said.
Varma said women who are 
homeless, have disabilities or come from low-income families have a harder time accessing or paying for tampons and pads.
“Any policies or regulations that 
make access easier for women — 
I’m completely in support of that,” 
Varma said. 
UF student Sachy Garg said tax-
free tampons would help those who can’t afford expensive products.
“There’s a huge disparity when 
it comes to having access to sanitary 
projects,” the 20-year-old nutrition-
al sciences sophomore said.
Many women have a stressful 
time dealing with menstruation due to a lack of resources, she said. New inventions such as absorbent under-wear are helpful, but don’t solve the problem.
“It just sucks that it happens ev-
ery single month,” Garg said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org 
 Proposed state bill seeks to eliminate tax on tampons4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dustin Pfundheller, a 30-year-old UF doctoral graduate, poses in front of 
the Great Wall of China during his travels. Pfundheller believes he will soon be the youngest person to travel to 193 U.N. member states.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
 
At the age of 30, Dustin Pfund-
heller believes he will soon be-come the youngest American to travel to all 193 U.N. member states, all while working a full-time job.
After graduating from UF in 
2013 with a doctoral degree in dentistry, Pfundheller packed his bags and moved to Singapore. His plan was to stay for six months, but he ended up traveling for more than three years. Now, he believes he is close to the world record, one he says is well known among world travelers, although the Alligator could not indepen-dently verify his claim.
His travels will end this week-
end when he visits Israel and Pal-estine, although Palestine is not recognized as a member of the U.N.
After an ended relationship, 
Pfundheller said he soon realized he was happiest when he was on the road.
“The world was so different from what I had learned in text-books or learned in a classroom,” he said. 
Pfundheller works in Singa-
pore as a dentist for 10- to 12-hour 
shifts for about a week, giving 
him a full week for adventures. He saves money by couch surﬁ  ng 
and eating at local shops.
When in other countries, 
Pfundheller does dental work if 
he can. In Tuvalu, a small Poly-
nesian island with no dental sur-
geons, he performed surgery on a 
man who wouldn’t have had ac-
cess to it otherwise.
Though people told Pfundhell-
er he could wait to travel until he was older, he wanted to go on ad-
ventures before he settled down.
“Your twenties is your turning 
point of how your life is going to be, and I wanted to see it in other 
cultures,” Pfundheller said.
Once he moved to Singapore, 
Pfundheller’s passion grew. 
Flights out of the country were in-
expensive, so visiting places like 
Uzbekistan and Indonesia was 
easy, he said.
Pfundheller said he didn’t set out to beat a record, but once he 
visited the Middle East in April, he realized if he could travel 
there, he could travel anywhere. 
Syria was the hardest to get 
to, he said. Pfundheller only got a 
visa after he arranged to speak at a dental conference in the city of 
Damascus.
“It was completely different 
from anything I saw,” Pfundheller 
said.
Pfundheller said he is always 
in contact with his family and 
visits them more often now than 
when he was in dental school. 
He buys a new SIM card for his 
phone for each country he vis-
its so his parents are only a call 
away.
One time his mother, Raina 
Pfundheller, didn’t hear from him for a few days because he had 
been exploring Vietnam.
“I learned not to think so much 
about the fear,” Raina Pfundhell-
er said. “Think more about the 
adventure.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  UF alumnus hopes to be youngest to travel the world 
CRIME
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman 
was arrested near campus 
Monday with about 234 grams of marijuana in her car, University Police said.
At about 11:36 p.m., 
Eyonna Monique Motley, 25, was driving east on West 
University Avenue when 
police pulled her over for driving without headlights or taillights, according to 
a police report. Police said 
when they walked up to 
the car they noticed an overwhelming smell of weed coming from inside the car.When police asked Motley 
and her passenger to step out of the car, the passenger ﬂ  ed on foot, according to the report. Police searched the 
area and were not able to ﬁ  nd 
him.
Inside the car, police 
found the weed stuffed in 
a red bag, according to the report. The weed was stored 
inside a gallon-sized zip-close 
bag within the red bag. Police also found seven glass mason jars containing trace amounts 
of marijuana.
Police arrested Motley on 
charges of possession of more 
than 20 grams of marijuana and an intent to sell. Authorities took her to 
Alachua County Jail where she was released Monday afternoon on her own recognizance.
When contacted, Motley 
declined to comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
 UPD: Woman arrested near UF with 234 grams of weed
Motley
TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Stefano Ferreyros
Alligator Contributing Writer
This summer, ﬁ  fteen UF journal-
ism students will ﬂ  y to Cuba to hone 
their reporting skills in a country that ranks among the worst in terms of press freedom, according to activ-ist groups.
The trip, announced Jan. 12, will allow students to spend 10 days near the country’s capital of Ha-vana, where they will gain experi-
ence with multimedia storytelling, 
said Matt Sheehan, the director of 
stories and emerging platforms lec-
turer.
“We’re going down to seek the 
truth and report it,” Sheehan said. “Tell the stories of people who may  not have their stories told.”
But according to the 2016 Press 
Freedom Index, compiled by Report-
ers Without Borders, Cuba ranks 
171st out of 180 countries in terms 
of press freedom. And in 2016, the 
non-partisan, non-governmental or-ganization Freedom House graded 
Cuba’s press freedom as 91 out of 
100, with 100 being the worst, stat-ing the country has the “most re-pressive environment for media in the Americas.”
Although this isn’t the ﬁ  rst UF 
course taught in Cuba, it’s a ﬁ  rst for 
the UF College of Journalism and 
Communications.
The course, which costs $1,898 
without airfare, extends from May 3 to May 12, according to the website. The submission deadline is Feb. 15.
Amaury Sablon, a UF telecom-
munication junior born in Cuba,  
said he hopes the trip helps partici-
pants challenge preconceived no-
tions about the country, speciﬁ  cally 
that it is not safe.
“I’ve been all over Europe and 
over 20 countries, and yet I’ve never felt safer than in Cuba,” Sablon said. UF journalism students to visit Cuba  on inaugural trip
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
PRE-SHOWCASE CONNECTIONS
Students at the Diversity Meetup: Pre-Showcase Connections take notes as a guest speaker advises them on meeting prospective employers on Monday. This event was followed by a mixer in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
By Sophia Carballo
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
A UF alumna is one of ﬁ  ve ﬁ  -
nalists competing to get her board-
game published through Hasbro.
Kelly North Adams, 31, a board 
game designer from Orlando, de-
signed and entered the game Chibi Quest! in Hasbro’s “Next Great 
Family Game Challenge” in hopes it one day appears on store shelves. 
To play her game, players control 
big-headed ﬁ  gurines called “chi-bis” that ﬁ  ght ﬁ  ctional monsters, she said.
To create the game, North Ad-
ams worked with Spanish artist Mibu-no-ookami, who specializes in drawing the ﬁ  gures.
“When you get a game, a lot 
of times the artwork is very sec-ondary,” said North Adams, who graduated from UF in 2006. “But with this game, the game portion is really awesome, but the artwork is also really cool. They work hand in hand.”
Hasbro’s competition is hosted 
on Indiegogo.com, an entrepreneur 
website, North Adams said. Which-
ever competitor gets the most peo-ple to donate on the website wins.
The last day to vote is Feb. 12, 
and the winner will be announced in March, she said. Joe North, North Adams’ broth-
er, said he is excited his sister has the opportunity to introduce her 
game to the world.
“I have a 5-year-old son, and I 
think it would be really cool to go 
to Toys R Us and see a box that has his aunt’s name on it,” the 35-year-old said.  UF alumna named ﬁ  nalist for board game competition
IT OPENED SATURDAY.
By Isa Perez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County residents who 
enjoy spending time outside now have 3,000 more acres to explore. 
After a decade of planning, 
Little Orange Creek Nature Park, 
located at 24115 SE Hawthorne 
Road, opened Saturday. The proj-ect cost about $5 million, which was funded by a grant from Flor-ida Community Trust, said Robin Frey, a board member of Friends of Little Orange Creek Nature Park. Entry to the park is free.
“One of the main goals we 
have for the park opening is to educate people, and primarily children, about nature and how to protect it,” she said. 
In addition to providing edu-cation on preserving and protect-ing nature, Frey said the park will hopefully boost Hawthorne’s economy.
“We’re hoping that the open-
ing of this park brings more peo-
ple to the city of Hawthorne,” she 
said.”
The park features trails, guided 
tours and a ﬁ  shing pier, according to its website.
UF student Rebecca Maguire, 
21, said she is excited to visit the park for some artistic inspiration.
The visual art studies junior 
said she is always looking for new places and parts of nature she hasn’t adventured before.
“I love the outdoors because I 
see it as one of the purest forms of beauty,” Maguire said. “I’m an arts major, so a place like this is going to be great for me and my artistic freedom.” $5 million  park makes 
debut in HawthorneThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Learn, evaluate and 
reason your opinion 
There is a lot of political news going on right now. You 
could say that about the whole year, but it seems that in the last few days there have been protests and protests of those protests. There have been things signed and things allegedly signed. There has been praise of the 
protests and criticisms of the protests. There has been praise of the signed things and also criticisms of those same signed things. It’s an information overload.
Usually when newsworthy things happen, we take a stance,  
where we post relevant articles on Facebook and retweet what-ever celebrity or journalist has the wittiest thing to say about the stance — or where we keep our thoughts to ourselves but acknowledge the idea. But we still nod in approval and like the posts. These days, it’s rare to ﬁ  nd someone who doesn’t have 
an opinion on a speciﬁ  c issue. It’s becoming more rare to ﬁ  nd 
someone who isn’t grounded in their own opinion.
Now that’s not necessarily a bad thing. Sticking to your 
gumption can be a good thing. Fighting for what you believe in can be a good thing. These are all traits we are told to aspire to. Find what you believe in, and then stick to it and never back down. The heroes in our ﬁ  ction often fall in this cat-egory, blazing through the arc of their stories, following their moral high path and trying to get others to follow their beliefs. 
And we all want to follow in the path of Superman or Captain 
America — determined do-gooders, urging other determined do-gooders.
The thing is that in real life, it’s a bit stupid to defend ev-
erything with a Captain America-like zeal. 
It seems almost expected these days to have an opinion on 
every hot button issue. It’s like checking off boxes: pro-life or pro-choice? Republican or Democrat? States’ rights or fed-eral government’s rights? Does climate change exist or is it a 
hoax? Intervene in international affairs or mind our own busi-
ness? That’s just scratching the surface. If you don’t have a full checklist, people turn their noses up at you. And it’s not just having that full checklist — it’s about being passionate about every single item on that list and defending it to your dying breath. And sometimes, if your list doesn’t align totally with someone else’s, then it looks like you’re not friends anymore. 
The thing is, sometimes, more often than not, we don’t 
know enough to ﬁ  ll out that list to completion. 
If we really wanted to analyze that list, we’d ﬁ  nd out that 
we really don’t know a lot about everything. Sure, there’s go-ing to be one or two big topics that we have to have expert opinions on. But just because someone can recite environmen-tal policy to you and give you the beneﬁ  ts and drawbacks of each source of renewable energy, that does not mean they are an expert on conﬂ  ict in the Middle East. Consciously, we are aware of this. But for some reason, a lot of us just don’t admit when we don’t know something. 
Worst of all, we don’t listen when someone who does know 
more about that topic tries to educate us. 
The ﬁ  x is simple: Admit what we don’t know and learn 
from someone who does.
When having discussions with friends, don’t align your 
completed checklists with each other’s. It’s okay to have a few unchecked boxes. It’s okay to have friends whose check-lists don’t completely align with yours. Help each other ﬁ  ll out those checklists — but don’t blindly copy. Listen, compre-
hend, evaluate, compare to your existing opinion and other 
opinions. The boxes on these lists aren’t just a big yes or no. It’s a sliding scale. And remember — you can always go back and change your answers.Should we care about what celebrities say?
The abstract concept of celebrities has con-
founded and fascinated many of us as we’ve grown up. Some of us think about 
it more than others, regularly scrolling 
through celebrities’ Instagram accounts 
and consuming tabloid news with zeal. On the other hand, some of us ignore celebrities 
as much as society allows us, disenchanted by 
their self-appointed responsibility as the voice for the masses despite their immense privilege. Either way, these potent feelings often contrib-ute to some sort of opinion toward celebrities in general, 
and the past few weeks were no exception.
In the wake of Meryl Streep’s Golden Globes speech 
heard around the world, in which she condemned Presi-
dent Donald Trump’s mockery of a disabled reporter and 
emphasized the need to protect the freedom of the press, it 
seemed as though everyone had an opinion on the matter. These opinions more or less split into two camps: support for Streep’s use of a highly publicized platform to make a political statement and frustration toward “liberal movie 
people” in general who mistakenly think the rest of the 
country cares about their political opinions. 
This gaping divide drew my attention to the notion of 
celebrities in the social-media age, where fans have almost 
unlimited access to A-listers’ opinions and can also circu-
late their own opinions about Hollywood’s ﬁ  nest. What of-ten results is a dichotomy of fascination and disgust, as our access to these previously obscured thoughts contributes to our eventual disillusion. The most obvious example would 
be the widespread obsession with the ﬁ  rst family of Ameri-
can reality television, the Kardashians, which has evolved into a convoluted web of adoration, revulsion and absorp-tion on all types of media platforms. Almost all coverage 
of this family falls into either the “love” or “love-to-hate” 
categories and can be extrapolated to apply to Hollywood in general. So I suppose the real questions are: Why do 
we care so much about what celebrities do, say and think? And should we even care in the ﬁ  rst 
place? Starting with the ﬁ  rst question, both tradi-
tional and social media platforms make celebrity news so omnipresent that it almost seems as if we’re being forced to care. Our Facebook news 
feeds are sprinkled with celebrity carpool kara-
oke videos, our Snapchat stories are bordered by pictures of “Kendall’s acne nightmare,” and our Twitter feeds are dominated by tweet wars 
between celebrities and eggs. Another simple explanation 
is the allure of escapism through the highs and lows of the 
rich and famous, but this isn’t truly nuanced enough to ap-ply to an entire country.
Billy Eichner in truTV’s “Billy on the Street” is one of my 
favorite depictions of the divide between pop culture fanat-ics like myself and those who honestly couldn’t care less. Hilariously bombarding innocent passersby on the streets of New York City with questions — “It’s Spock! Do you care?” “Are you jealous of Beyoncé’s success?” and “Would 
you have sex with Paul Rudd?” — it becomes increasingly 
apparent how few people actually care about celebrities, even when they’re standing right in front of them. These moments, though originally employed for comedic effect, il-
lustrate how indifference toward celebrities is just as preva-
lent as the obsession espoused by mainstream media.
Like most things in life, your decision to value or ignore 
the actions and thoughts of Hollywood elites is simply a matter of personal preference, and you can’t make a judg-
ment call on someone’s preference. It’s also well within 
your rights to circulate your opinions about actors, musi-cians and the generally famous, but remember one thing: Whether you love them or love to hate them, you’re still 
talking about them.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
To everyone who considers me to be 
some liberal guy who has way too much pent-up anger about recent issues and complains about them constantly, I apologize. Through re-
ﬂ  ection, I’ve realized all my pieces so far have been critiques. They’ll probably stay that way. My ﬁ  rst guest piece was a cri-tique, and my last regular piece may be as well. I consider critiques to be an oppos-ing opinion that the critiqued could learn something from — and by no means am I exempt from this. So please, if you believe I could be doing anything different which would be beneﬁ  cial in any manner, then comment on my piece, send me a message of any kind, etc. I will fully accept any crit-icism and try to learn.
What I want to talk about today is, 
ironically enough, complaints. Not of the insigniﬁ  cant kind — pain, daily annoyanc-es or anything you don’t like about your roommate — but the kind which determine our mettle as students: complaints about academic rigor. 
Before you rip up the Opinions section because I sound like your nag-ging high-school teacher or UF President Kent Fuchs, hear me out. It took me about three hours to write this, and it takes ﬁ  ve minutes of your time to read it — that isn’t so bad, right?
First, we need to be clear on a 
few terms: academic rigor, criti-cism and complaints to be pre-cise.
Academic rigor is analogous to getting 
to that new public relations: It’s a persis-tent, consistent practice which pushes us beyond our limits so we may all individu-ally perform better, without being unchar-acteristically overwhelmed in the process. 
Criticism, as deﬁ  ned by the Oxford Eng-
lish Dictionary, or OED, is “the action of criticizing, or passing judgment on the qualities or merits of anything.” I would warrant that claiming for one to pass judg-ment on anything, one needs to be under-standing of the subject being criticized. 
Complaint, as deﬁ  ned by the OED, is 
“the action of complaining; the utterance of grief, lamentation, grieving.” It seems complaints serve a pur-pose of relieving someone of something negative. Comparing complaints to criticism shows complaints have no purpose to improve that which is being com-plained about.
Now that we’re clear on our 
terms, my ambiguous column will provide context. The other 
day in class, someone stood up and stated (before the professor was in the class), “Does anyone else not know what is going on in this class?” A few head turns prompt-ed this student to continue on, “I opened up my book for the ﬁ  rst time last night, read one page, and then I saw how much we had to read and shut the book. Like, what is this dude (the professor) on?” 
The assignment was a bit lengthy for the 
ﬁ  rst day, and it seemed some others agreed with this student. But, what I noticed ﬁ  rst was this student did what all complainers do: nothing about his or her problem. This student created the problem he or she was complaining about. His or her problem wasn’t a difﬁ  cult reading; it was laziness and neglect which led him or her to feel overwhelmed by the assignment. The stu-dent’s frustration wasn’t a seemingly jus-tiﬁ  ed critique of excessive academic rigor either — it was a weak complaint. 
I’m sure we all live busy and exhaust-
ing lives as UF students, so it’s no excuse to claim bad time management. We always have something we could sacriﬁ  ce to pri-oritize another thing. If this student didn’t have time, then this course simply wasn’t his or her priority. If that’s the case, then why complain in the ﬁ  rst place? If you want to blame someone, then blame your-self. If you want the problem to be ﬁ  xed, then ﬁ  x it yourself.
On a ﬁ  nal note, it’s okay to criticize 
something as too difﬁ  cult or outright ridic-ulous if, and only if, you’ve put in the time to try. If you haven’t dedicated time to whatever you’re talking about, then don’t waste your breath.
James Hardison is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Tuesdays.
A criticism of complaints and a discussion of whether they are justiﬁ  ableColumn
James 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
Though Landmark Properties 
projects in other states have had de-
lays, Gainesville construction is on 
schedule and ready for August 2017, 
he said. 
“As we do with every project, we 
apply lessons learned from previous developments and hope to continue 
to improve in all aspects with each 
and every new endeavor,” Nichelson said. 
It was the location of The Stan-
dard that made Becsey want to sign on for the Fall.
At the time of signing, team mem-bers from The Standard showed Bec-
sey the clause in the contract about 
providing accommodations if the building was not complete. 
“Obviously they want to finish as 
soon as possible, so they won’t have 
to buy everyone hotels,” the UF psy-
chology freshman said.
Even though he does not know 
the exact dimensions of his room, and the building is still in construc-
tion, Becsey signed anyway. If the 
room was small, or if there were de-lays, “so be it,” he said.
Nichelson said third-party inspec-
tors have shown that The Standard at Gainesville has been on or ahead of schedule at each check. “Delays in Boone and Knoxville 
were anomalies — not the norm — and our company’s industry-leading track record proves ample evidence of that,” he said.
Though the project has been on 
schedule, Landmark Properties has a backup plan in case delays do occur, Nichelson said.
“If the project should be delayed, 
residents would be provided tem-
porary living accommodations until 
The Standard was move-in ready,” Nichelson said.
Gigi Anderson, 18, knew about 
the delays, but said she isn’t con-cerned. 
She’s mostly excited about the apartment’s amenities, like a rooftop 
pool, and the chance to get out of her 
dorm, Mallory Hall.
When signing, officials from 
Landmark Properties assured her and her roommates that their proj-
ect had a firm deadline, especially 
because of the businesses ready to move in downstairs.
“If they don’t finish on time, it’ll 
be a big deal for them; they’ll lose 
a lot of money,” the UF chemistry 
freshman said. “So I’m pretty confi-dent they’ll finish on time.”
Brett Dembrow, 20, signed for his 
room at The Standard the first day it was available. 
When choosing where to live next year, he was between Social 28 
and The Standard, he said. Though 
The Standard was still in construc-tion, he trusted it to be more com-plete than Social 28, which he feels is always having work done. 
He weighed the pros and cons of 
The Standard, knowing about the delays, but decided it was the best option for its price and location.
“The issue with The Standard 
was pretty minor,” the UF business administration sophomore said. “I don’t have any doubts they’ll be done on time.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
STANDARD,  from pg.1Management will house tenants in case of construction delaysThe three buildings of The Standard at Gainesville complex stand along 13th Street. From left: The 
first building will be for apartments, the second building will be an AC Hotels by Marriott, and the third building, which is near completion, will be a parking garage.
Workers refine cement underneath The Standard at Gainesville structure. A T argetExpress will be moving into a vacant space underneath one of the buildings.
Matthew Goldtraps’s hard hat is pictured along Northwest 14th Street, adjacent to The Standard at Gainesville. Goldtrap, 46, is the construction foreman on the project.
A closer look at one of the sides of The Standard at Gainesville. According to the construction foreman, construction is on schedule with a projected turnover date in August.
Photos by Alan Alvarez / Alligator StaffRESEARCH ROUNDUP
 UF researchers identify brain receptor in 
rats to help improve working memory
UF researchers have discovered the speciﬁ  c brain 
receptor that maintains “working memory.”
Working memory is the ability to retain informa-
tion for a short time, which can diminish with age, 
said Joseph McQuail, the postdoctoral fellow who led the study. The ﬁ  ndings, published Dec. 14, suggest potential drug treatments targeting these receptors  
would improve people’s working memory. 
The researchers studied cognitive decline in young 
and old rats, looking at how brain receptors were af-
fected by age, he said.
“Working memory is a foundational aspect of 
higher order cognition,” McQuail said. “It is important in remembering what you have done, what you need to do and how you will accomplish that goal.”
McQuail said the three-year project enables pos-
sible approaches for researchers to study memory im-pairments and other neurological diseases.
Drugs that block the receptors could further dam-
age people’s working memory, he said. Although each neurological disease is different, researchers now 
know which receptors to target.
As people age, they often experience decreased 
memory abilities, McQuail said. He said enhancing 
working memory will help older individuals manage 
complex activities which help them to live indepen-
dently.
“If we protect working memory, we can extend the 
period at which individuals can experience high qual-ity life,” McQuail said. 
- Meredith SheldonTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
 Researchers discover new 
classifications of fungi
UF researchers have successfully classiﬁ  ed micro-
scopic fungi into two new groups.
UF plant pathology professors have been working 
to understand the relationships between microscop-
ic fungi, said Matthew Smith, an assistant professor in the department of plant pathology. Smith said he oversaw UF’s role in discovering the new fungi clas-
siﬁ  cations.
“It’s like a family tree,” Smith said. “What we 
thought was one big family tree is actually two dis-
tinct lineages of fungi that separated much longer ago than we thought.”
Smith, along with a team of researchers, worked 
to grow and analyze different fungi for ZyGoLife, or Zygomycetes Genealogy of Life, a collaborative study with 13 labs across North America.
The success researchers had in the UF lab growing 
the fungi was due to Smith’s colleague, Gerald Benny, a retired UF plant pathology professor, Smith said. Re-searchers used Benny’s extensive fungi collection to help determine the new classiﬁ  cations.
By studying these fungi, researchers can better un-
derstand speciﬁ  c insect and human pathogens, which contribute to diseases, and utilize them to create bio-fuels and pharmaceutical compounds. But there is still 
a lot to learn about the microscopic organisms, Smith 
said.
“There’s still a lot of basic stuff that we don’t know 
and, for me, it is something that’s always part of the appeal,” Smith said. 
- T eddi Woodson-PradeFloridian  killer snail is actually 
multiple species
Who said snails were harmless?
One UF researcher, along with colleagues from 
across the country, has discovered a deadly sharp-
toothed species of the slimy mollusk, which happens 
to be native to Florida.
John Slapcinsky, the senior biologist at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History, along with researchers at 
Pomona College, University of Hawaii and Howard 
University discovered the new species, which was grouped together with a similar carnivorous snail, dur-ing the summer.
“They’ll eat almost any snail,” Slapcinsky said.
What scientists thought to be the Euglandina rosea 
snail, known for eating other snails, is actually two 
different species, he said. The Euglandina rosea, com-monly called the rosy wolf snail, is native to Florida, 
but was introduced into Hawaii in the 1950s to elimi-
nate snails  that were considered pests. However, the different snail species, with its heightened sense of smell and long, sharp teeth, did its job too well.
Until now, the snail’s variations were attributed 
to factors like climate, so scientists didn’t think there could be an additional species, he said.
The rosy wolf snail is the only Euglandina species 
that’s named, but now Slapcinsky believes there could 
be up to 10 different species.
“This shows a really good example of why it’s im-
portant to be able to know the difference between your 
species,” Slapcinsky said. 
- Grace Kenny TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-27-17-10-1
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-27-17-5-2
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatestStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Needed a stable & reliable person long termto sell & set up a wine tasting part time for $10/hr. Hours: Tues 3-4pm, Sat 11-5pm, Sun 12-4pm, Please call Mary for an interview this weekend & next week at 478-550-4140.    1-25-17-5-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Foot-in-mouth
incident
6 Blue ox of
folklore
10 Pork or lamb cut
14 Indian or Iranian
15 Tag sale
condition
16 Helen of Troy’s
mother
17 Golf stroke
played from sand
19 Wrinkle remover20 Remarkable
times
21 Homes of blue-
plate specials
23 “The Simpsons”
creator Groening
26 Apple mobile
platform
28 __ fit: tantrum29 Readily available
31 Jerry of “Law &
Order”
34 Act division
35 Irritated
incessantly
36 Canadian
Thanksgiving
mo.
39 Hesitant sounds40 Tire-inflating aid
42 Part of rpm
43 John of England44 Softens, with
“down”
45 In an unfriendly
way
47 Bitterness49 Skippers on
ponds
50 Torah teacher52 Napoleon or
Nero: Abbr.
54 Rainbow flag
letters
55 Digital library
contents
57 Bone-dry59 Hit the runway60 Lakota chief at
Little Bighorn,and what’sliterally found inthis puzzle’scircles
66 Skin breakout67 Poker pot starter68 Longtime NBC
newsman Roger
69 Classic Jaguars70 Recent returnees
to Los Angeles
71 Oft-poached fruitDOWN
1 Chatter away
2 Sun Devils sch.3 First sign of a
shark
4 Faux glow5 Part of DOE: Abbr.6 Low voice7 Blond shade8 Short life story?9 Abbr. on a
cornerstone
10 Treatment facility
11 “Wish me luck!”
12 Smells13 Cultivated violet18 Roach spray brand22 Critic’s harsh
words
23 City in northern
Iraq
24 Dried chili pepper25 Historic
educationalcenter of Paris’
Latin Quarter
27 “Neener neener!”
30 Clutter-averse
type
32 Vintage cars
named with the
initials of their
company’sfounder
33 Music majors’
degs.35 River of 
Florence
37 Fanzine figure
38 Romantic
rendezvous
41 Org. with a five-
ring logo
46 Brewski48 Dwellings49 Agile50 “Just chill!”51 Taken __:
shocked53 Puzzles with
dead-end paths
56 Lasting mark58 Chain famous for
breakfasts
61 Genetic letters62 All-hrs. cash
source
63 Belfast-born
actor Stephen
64 McCartney’s title65 Golf Hall of
Famer Ernie
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/24/1701/24/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 24, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Post Card Marketing System "Secure a second income, not a second job" www.abminfo.com Referred by # 5784 P. Wilson     1-25-17-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: LAPTOP
In the downtown area. Contact 352-575-
5974 with detailed description.  1-25-3-25
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's tennis coach Roland Thornqvist isn't sure how to ﬁ  ll out his lineup, but he says that's a good thing. Read the story, pg. 14Florida baseball ranked in prominent preseason poll
The Gators are ranked No. 3 in Baseball America's Preseason Poll, which was 
released Monday. Florida opens its season on Feb. 17 at home against Wil-
liam and Mary. IT'S COHEN DOWN
I usually hate these 
types of columns.
They come 
off as whiny and 
self-absorbed, as 
if I expect you, the 
reader, to feel sorry for me. To feel sorry for the inconvenienc-
es I deal with at my 
workplace when I re-ally don’t care about what hap-pens at yours.
The type of column I’m talking 
about? The ones where the media rants about the problems it faces at work. The unnecessary restric-tions sports journalists deal with 
day to day. The way sports teams 
and organizations are ghastly afraid of reporters having free reign to interview and tell stories 
about their players, as if this is 
the federal government and we might accidentally stumble upon their secret launch codes.
But, if you’re reading this, 
you’re likely somewhat invested in sports journalism, and you care about the stories that result from the media’s reporting. So 
excuse my self absorption just a 
little bit longer.
Recently, Richard Deitsch of 
Sports Illustrated wrote a story titled “The strangest restrictions 
NFL teams impose on reporters.” 
In it, Deitsch compiled anecdotes from respected sports journalists around the nation, all of whom 
cite examples of how the NFL 
teams they cover routinely and unfathomably make it more dif-ficult for the media to do their jobs. 
One reporter complained 
about the lack of access he re-ceives with San Francisco 49ers’ quarterback Colin Kaepernick. 
Reporters only get to talk with 
Kaepernick once a week for a limited amount of time. Another complained that the team he cov-ers forbids reporters from watch-
ing practices. Ever. Another hates 
the fact that the Miami Dolphins don’t allow the media to talk to assistant coaches.
For those of you who are not 
journalists, these problems prob-ably sound annoyingly insig-nificant. Really, jour-nalist guy? You’re complaining about 
only getting to talk 
to Kaepernick once a week? 
But the fact is, this 
is our job. To talk to the athletes you want to hear from, to bring you stories about 
your favorite players that you’ve 
never heard before, to humanize 
them. To define them by more than just their passing yards, bat-ting average or jersey number.
And here’s how it happens.Typically, a team brings out a 
player to talk to reporters. A pub-lic relations officer stands near-by, ready to cut off the interview 
if they hear a question they don’t 
like. About a dozen reporters sur-round the athlete in a semicircle, some with voice recorders and 
others with video cameras aimed 
at the athlete’s face, equipped with a blinding light that might as well be a visual signal that reads: “All of this will be record-
ed and televised. Don’t say any-
thing stupid.”
All of this combines to create 
an uncomfortable environment. 
Some athletes are nervous, so 
they answer in cliches. We’re tak-
ing it one game at a time. We’re giving it 110 percent. We just had to fight through adversity.  
The reporters stumble over 
each other in an attempt to ask a question, typically only getting in one or two each before the athlete 
is pulled away, so we’re forced 
to jump right to the newsworthy topics that often make the player uncomfortable, and understand-ably so. Have you thought about 
the NFL Draft yet? What’s your 
mindset heading into the next game? How did you manage to score more points than the other 
team last week?
All of it feels contrived and 
robotic, and neither party — the 
athlete nor the reporter — truly enjoys it.
I propose something different. Similarly to what one Cleve-
land Browns reporter suggested  Take yourselves less 
seriously, sports teams
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Alligator File Photo 
UF coach Jenny Rowland ﬁ  st-bumps with Alex McMurtry during Florida's win over Alabama on Jan. 
29, 2016, in the O'Connell Center. 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer 
The last time Florida hosted 
Auburn, UF coach Jenny 
Rowland was there.
But she wore different shades 
of orange and blue.
On that night in 2015, Florida 
dominated Auburn 197.20-
195.65. 
Now, nearly two years later, 
the Gators’ second-year coach 
has the opportunity to welcome her former team into her new 
home during Florida’s Link 
to Pink meet on Friday at the O’Connell Center.
This time around, however, 
she wants to be on the winning side of the meet.
“I am really excited to be 
hosting Auburn,” Rowland said. “I have a wonderful relationship 
with (the) staff still. … (I’m) looking forward to a good, 
healthy rival.”
Prior to UF, Rowland served 
as an assistant and associate head coach for the Tigers from 2010-2015.
She was brought in when 
current Auburn head coach Jeff Graba was hired in 2010 and helped him lead the team to five straight NCAA Tournament 
appearances, including a trip to 
the NCAA Super Six for the first time in 22 years.
So Friday’s meet will not only 
be a reunion against some of her 
former athletes, but a chance 
for Rowland to get a win over her former boss for the second straight year.
The last time the Gators lost 
to Auburn in the regular season was 1993.
“Jeff of all people knows 
how competitive I am,” Rowland said. “And that is not any different this next Friday. You know what, I have the utmost admiration for him, 
but at the same time we have 
been preparing for a successful season and training day in and day out for a good meet this 
Friday.”
No. 3 Florida enters the meet 
coming off three straight wins 
against N.C. State, Kentucky and North Carolina, while Auburn 
has dropped its first three.
The Gators are hoping to 
make it four.
And though the season is still 
young, Rowland is pleased with 
her team's performance at this point.
“(I’m) ecstatic,” Rowland 
said. “Really, our goal was to 
get out on a strong note. The 
girls are very determined, they  Rowland looking to continue 
winning streak against former team
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15 14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
In his 16 years coaching at 
the University of Florida, Roland 
Thornqvist has never struggled 
with choosing his team’s lineup. 
Until now. With eight talented and ex-
perienced players, the Gators 
women’s tennis coach has had to 
devote his time to ﬁ  guring out his own team before looking ahead.
“Usually, I can sort of envi-
sion and see what our ﬁ  nal and 
best product is going to be, but at this point right now, I haven’t 
even spent two seconds thinking 
about DePaul this weekend,” he 
said. “We’re trying to ﬁ  gure out our own team. It’s obviously a 
pleasant problem to have.”
In an effort to solve this prob-
lem, team members are compet-ing with each other routinely in 
practice, creating a more compet-
itive atmosphere. This, in turn, 
has made practices more signiﬁ  -cant, as players are trying to earn 
top spots before their ﬁ  rst team 
match of the Spring season.
“Normally, at this point, ev-
erybody is sick of practicing and they just want to play somebody 
else,” Thornqvist said. 
“But the way we compete in 
practice now, our players don’t 
have the luxury to look a week 
ahead. … For the ﬁ  rst time in my 
tenure here, we have a little pres-
sure every day at practice before 
we play. I think that’s going to be 
good for our team.”
Newcomer  
Ingrid Neel has 
contributed to 
the competitive 
nature of prac-
tices. According 
to Thornqvist, 
Neel has won 
every competi-
tive drill she’s been put in. 
However, other members of 
the team, such as seniors Kourt-
ney Keegan, Spencer Liang and 
Belinda Woolcock, have also 
played a part in helping the team 
ﬁ  nd a new approach to practice. 
“The three of them can really 
reach the rest of them really 
well,” Thornqvist said.Despite the leadership of the 
team’s three seniors, Thornqvist 
said nobody really needs a vocal 
leader in the locker room, as ev-
eryone knows what they need to do. 
The Gators will be able to truly 
evaluate themselves following 
Sunday, as they host DePaul, FIU 
and USF at the ITA Kickoff Clas-sic. 
Their ﬁ  rst match is Saturday 
at 2 p.m. against DePaul, which 
is 2-0 to start the season behind 
the leadership of No. 87 Yuliya 
Shupenia. The victor will face the 
winner of FIU and USF on Sunday 
with a consolation game at noon 
and the championship game at 2 
p.m. 
Until then, Florida will focus 
on its own lineup and getting ev-erything set to start the Spring 
season.
“We’re trying to ﬁ  gure out the 
Gators, honestly. And I hope I’ll ﬁ  gure out the Gators by the time 
we tee it up on Saturday,” Thorn-
qvist said. “We’re not going to 
worry about (DePaul). We’re go-
ing to try to get our team right 
and get our team to play at the 
highest possible level on Sat-
urday, and hopefully, that’ll be 
good enough.”
 
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org Crafting women’s tennis lineup ‘a pleasant problem’ 
Alligator File Photo 
UF women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist smiles during introductions prior to Florida’s win over 
USF on Jan. 27, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Neel
TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
in Deitsch’s Sports Illustrated 
story, I would like to take the intimidation out of what should 
be casual conversations, but are 
all too often more akin to uncom-fortable cross examinations.
If you’re a prominent Ameri-
can sports team, try this: Allow 
reporters into the players' lounge 
once a week for an hour. Invite all athletes that would like to come to the lounge to come, sit 
and talk, and all others that don’t 
want to, don’t have to.
Let the reporters meet with the 
athletes, laugh with the athletes, get to know them as human be-
ings, ask them interesting ques-
tions that keep their attention and pique their curiosity. 
Rid yourselves of the stigma 
that we are out to trick the play-ers into giving us a controversial quote. 
Encourage an atmosphere of 
trust and honesty, of mutual re-
spect and relationship building.
Because, after all, this isn’t 
politics. This isn’t government. 
This isn’t serious.
This is sports.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. 
His column appears on Tuesdays. 
Contact him at alligator.org, and 
follow him on Twitter @icohenb. COLUMN,  from pg13
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer
For a track program that once 
won three straight NCAA Indoor 
Championships, excellence is go-ing to be expected in all areas of the team. 
So while Florida track and 
field coach Mike Holloway said he’s happy with where his team is at this point in the season, he also believes the Gators have some work to do in the short 
sprint events moving forward.
UF's men's team, which 
hasn't won a 60-meter this sea-
son, is looking to improve on its times this week as it prepares for the Razorback Invitational in 
Fayetteville, Arkansas. 
Gators sophomores Ryan Clark 
and Michael Timpson Jr. placed 
third and fourth in the men’s 60-meter finals at the Hokie Invi-
tational on Saturday with official 
times of 6.79 (6.781) and 6.79 (6.782). One one-thousandth of a second separated them.
Timpson, however, placed 
second in a 60-meter prelimi-nary race at the meet with a time of 6.77 seconds. If he had fin-ished the finals with that time, 
he would have moved past his 
teammate from fourth to third. 
And his preliminary time 
wasn’t his best of the season. 
At the Clemson Orange and 
Purple Indoor meet on Jan. 7, Timpson finished second in the men’s 60-meter final with a time of 6.70 — a time that would have 
placed him in the No. 2 spot in 
the 60-meter final at the Hokie Invitational. 
Clark has also shown he has 
the potential to run faster than 6.79 — his best time so far this season. 
As a freshman in 2016 at the 
Tyson Invitational, Clark clocked 
a time of 6.64 in a preliminary 
race, which would have put him in first at the Hokie Invitational final. 
Although still early in the sea-
son, Holloway said it’s his re-sponsibility to get his sprinters where they need to be. 
“I’ll get those guys going,” he 
said. 
As for Timpson, he said the 
key to success for him moving forward is to run how he does in practice. 
“The main thing is, like, being 
comfortable with being uncom-fortable,” Timpson said. “If I do that, I’ll run some good times.” 
Timpson might have the op-
portunity to run some good times this weekend. 
The track at the Randal Tyson 
Track Center, Holloway said, has 
been noted as one of the fastest 
tracks in the country. 
He said the team is always 
excited to go to a place where the Gators have had great perfor-
mances. 
Timpson said he is looking 
forward to going back to the 
track on which he ran his fastest 
60-meter time. 
“I’ve been to Arkansas before 
— it’s a nice track,” he said. “I 
definitely have a chance to run fast there.” 
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.org TRACK AND FIELD 
 Florida trying to improve performance in short sprints
Alligator File Photo
Coach Mike Holloway smiles as he talks with his team during the 2016 Florida Relays at the Percy 
Beard Track. 
are very focused. We have a lot of new faces on 
the team, so that was something that we knew was going to be a little bit different this season," 
Rowland said. 
"We have a younger team, but the freshmen 
really have come in and stepped up.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg13Rowland: 'The freshmen really have ... stepped up'
JENNY ROWLAND’S 
COACHING CAREER
• Florida Head Coach 
(May 2015-Present)
• Auburn Associate Head Coach (Mar. 2013- May 2015)
• Auburn Assistant Coach (Oct. 2010- Mar. 2013)
• Oklahoma Assistant Coach 
• (2001-2006)
• Bart Conner Gymnastics Academy Elite Coach (1996-2000)
Alligator File Photo
UF coach Jenny Rowland waves to the crowd prior to her ﬁ  rst meet as head coach 
of the Gators on Jan. 15, 2016. Rowland will face her former team — Auburn — on 
Friday. 
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2017
