Staff Report
Kimia Ghaffari held her hand to 
her throat Sunday, taking in the pro-
test the Irani immigrant spent two days planning.
With proud tears in her eyes, the 
18-year-old UF chemistry freshman watched about 150 people she had brought together on Turlington Plaza speak out against President Donald Trump’s immigration ban.
On Friday, Trump signed an ex-
ecutive order barring people from seven Muslim-majority nations — Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Ye-
men and Somalia — from entering 
the U.S. for 90 days, the Associated Press reported. 
The order also barred the U.S. 
acceptance of Syrian refugees indeﬁ  -nitely. 
It was signed in the name of na-
tional security, but over the weekend, people across the country protested 
what many called a Muslim ban in 
airports and in the streets, including at UF and in Gainesville.
“People have said that America is 
the greatest country in the world so many times that they have started to 
believe that American people are the 
greatest people in the world,” Ghaf-fari said. “They’ve started putting the lives of American people over those in need.” 
UF President Kent Fuchs released 
an email Sunday and said of UF’s about 7,000 international students, 
there are about 200 undergraduate 
and graduate students, faculty and staff from the seven named countries in the executive order.
“Embracing all members of our 
community and maintaining a wel-coming environment for talented stu-dents, faculty and staff from around the world are central to our values 
and identity as a university,” he said.
Though the Trump administra-
tion has claimed the ban is for U.S. 
safety, Ghaffari said it’s the most of-fensive thing she’s ever heard.
And though citizens from Saudi 
Arabia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates have committed terrorist attacks in the U.S., they weren’t in-cluded in the Trump’s ban. Trump and his family also have business interests in the three countries, NPR reported.
Ghaffari called the ban dehuman-
izing ban and said it would cause a divide between families, friends and countries around the world.
“It’s easy to insult someone as 
soon as you dehumanize them,” she said. “They don’t think they’re ban-
ning people, they’re banning immi-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 91 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
Six UF teams won over the weekend
Check out our photo story of the action, pg. 16
Qualifying for Student Senate began Sunday
Students can interview to run with a party until Tuesday, pg. 5
UF chapter of Zeta Beta Tau returning to campus
They were banned after members reportedly uriniated on 
disabled veterans, pg. 4FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sophia Timm, left,  a 20-year-old UF biology and anthropology junior, stands alongside Rana Al-Nahhas, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, who holds a sign that reads, “My family is not a threat. ”
 ‘This ban aﬀ  ects us all’: Protesters march against order
UF SPOKESPERSON SAID THE 
UNIVERSITY IS COMPL YING 
WITH INVESTIGATION.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is the latest of 225 colleges and uni-
versities under federal investigation for possibly mishandling a sexual violence complaint.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Civil Rights in the U.S. 
Education Department announced Thurs-day that a January report from UF is one of 306 sexual violence complaints being in-vestigated, The Washington Post reported. 
On Jan. 20, the ofﬁ  ce began its investi-
gation into UF — making it one of six cases to open in 2017.
Inclusion on the list doesn’t indicate 
that federal law has been violated, ac-cording to The Washington Post. The list, started under President Barack Obama’s administration in 2014, ﬁ  rst listed 55 uni-versities. It has since quadrupled. 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes con-
ﬁ  rmed Friday that the UF investigation is 
ongoing. She said while the investigation is 
open, the complaint and any other relevant documents aren’t public.
“The University of Florida is commit-
ted to Title IX compliance, including clear 
standards of student conduct and a fair 
student conduct process for all students involved,” Sikes wrote in an email. “We are fully cooperating with OCR in its inves-tigation.” 
The other Florida universities under in-
vestigation include Florida State Universi-ty, Full Sail University, Stetson University, the University of Miami and the University 
of South Florida, according to The Wash-
ington Post. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Feds investigating  UF 
sexual violence report
THE LOCAL RESTAURANT WILL  
CLOSE AFTER 40 YEARS.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
After 40 years spent feeding burritos to 
Gainesville’s hungry students and residents, 
Burrito Bros. Taco Co. will serve its last meal Saturday.
Owner Randy Akerson conﬁ  rmed Sunday 
Burrito Bros. would be closing Saturday, fol-lowing months of ﬁ  nancial instability.
Between construction of The Standard at 
Gainesville, which restricted parking on 14th Street, and too many canceled home football games, revenues had looked bleak.
In October, Akerson estimated they had 
dipped about 23 percent in a year’s time, and he predicted his business wouldn’t survive, ac-cording to Alligator archives.“After 40 years, I am just distraught,” he 
said Sunday.
The efforts of a GoFundMe page and a birth-
day celebration that raised more than $3,500 
were not successful, and patrons will have one 
week to taste the famous burritos and sauce. 
“It’s the last remaining bit of original 
Gainesville,” said UF alumnus Steve Huber, who visited the restaurant Sunday.
As a native of Gainesville and a Burrito 
Bros. fanatic, the 46-year-old Jacksonville resi-dent said he stopped by for lunch at least three times a week when he was a student.
For him, the short lines and empty seats he 
saw Sunday aren’t how he remembered the restaurant. He considers it a rite of passage for UF students to experience Burrito Bros. at least once before they leave.
“It’s worth the wait, worth the parking, 
worth the trip,” he said. Burrito Bros. to close down 
Saturday, owner confirmsSEE BAN,  PAGE 8
SEE BURRITOS,  PAGE 8LOCALWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Special showing of ‘The 
Uncondemned’ at the 
HippodromeFor one night only Tuesday, head to the Hippodrome State 
Theatre for a screening of “The 
Uncondemned” at 7:30 p.m. After the show, join us as we Skype with director Michele Mitchell to answer audience questions and discuss the grip-ping story of justice throughout the film. “The Uncondemned” is the world-changing story of 
both a group of young inter-
national lawyers and activists who fought to make rape a war crime and the Rwandan women who came forward to testify. Up to this point, rape had not been prosecuted as a war crime and was committed with impu-nity. A courtroom thriller and 
personal human drama, the 
film beautifully interweaves the stories of the characters in this odyssey, leading to the trial at an international criminal court and the results that changed the world of criminal justice forever. For more information or to purchase tickets, call the 
Hippodrome Box Office at 352-
375-4477 or visit tickets.the-hipp.org.
2017 International Brass 
FestivalUF’s School of Music is pleased to present the 2017 International Brass Festival 
on Saturday and Sunday. The 
two-day event will feature in-ternationally recognized guest artists Nathan Zgonc, Christian Paarup, the U.S. Air Force Band Trombone Quartet, the University of Tennessee Faculty Brass Quintet and more. The festival includes numerous mas-
ter classes and recitals, and it is 
open to musicians of all ages. The 2017 International Brass Festival will also feature an ex-hibit room with many popular brass manufacturers. All events are free and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu/brassfestival.
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’ The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” from Friday to Sunday in Constans Theatre. This new play by Canadian playwright Michel 
Marc Bouchard tells the story 
of Talbot and Michaud, two Quebec City seminarians from opposing social classes with conflicting ideas about life, re-ligion and art. Tickets for the production are $18 for the gen-eral public, $15 for seniors and UF faculty and staff and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-
able through the University Box 
Office. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Time Warp ‘80s Night at the 
HippodromeGo back in time with us. On Feb. 8, the Hippodrome State Theatre will feature a special 
showing of “When Harry Met 
Sally.” The 1989 classic fea-tures Meg Ryan, Billy Crystal and Carrie Fisher. What better way to welcome Valentine’s Day than with a throwback ro-mantic comedy? For more infor-mation or to purchase tickets, call the Hippodrome Box Office 
at 352-375-4477 or visit tickets.
thehipp.org.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career Expo The annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be held Feb. 8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
Employers representing the food, fiber, natural resources and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent em-ployment, as well as represen-tatives of graduate programs 
and professional schools. All 
students are encouraged to at-tend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. For more information, visit cals.ufl.edu.
Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company 
Cerridwen Works, with as-
sistance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is produc-ing an empowerment art show and performance-art showcase for the semi-annual anti-vio-lence arts festival “Red Soul 
Days.” The show will be Feb. 
10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. Artists and performers of all styles are welcome to sub-mit work that evokes themes of recovery, healing from trauma, self-discovery and love. A pub-lic display of affection contest 
will occur at Superfun! on Feb. 
10 and Feb. 11 from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a range of art workshops and art-making opportunities such as a public canvas and storytelling exercis-es. All couples are welcome to participate. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more in-formation.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge 
On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the 
Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-mation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free 
food and free tank tops (lim-
ited quantities available), will be featured. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. For more infor-mation and to register your-self or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condomde-sign-challenge no later than 
Monday.
352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunity 
The UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey 
Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with 
a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3 Learn some strategies about communicating affirmative 
consent in Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more information or to request material, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ ufsa.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 91
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  62° LOW  32°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
THE RESTAURANT AND BAR 
CLOSED AFTER EIGHT YEARS IN 
MIDTOWN.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
As thick crowds of college students ex-
hausted the last call for alcohol and slowly 
scattered from Midtown’s bar scene early Saturday morning, 101 Cantina closed its doors for good.
After eight years across the street from 
UF’s campus, where it served for many as a welcome escape from the stress of aca-demia, the bar and restaurant announced Friday it’s run was over.
Since August, Cantina faced foreclo-
sure after its owners could not pay back $68,322 in debts owed to investors, Ala-chua County court records show.
In September, the bar’s landlord de-
manded owners pay back $21,181 in over-due rent, according to court records.
Erik Zika, Cantina’s general manager, 
broke the news of the bar’s closing Friday 
in a bleak, long-winded Facebook post.
“With much heartache, the day that we 
never thought would happen is now upon 
us,” the post read. “This will be 101 Can-tina’s final night open in Gainesville.”
But for the night — and into the morn-
ing — Cantina hosted one final drunken celebration, a fitting send off for the Mid-town bar.
Jonathan Joseph, 21, said he heard 
about the closing Friday morning and knew he had to go one last time. 
The UF applied physiology and kinesi-
ology senior went to Cantina at about 10 p.m., and even though he only stayed for 10 minutes, he took a final shot of tequila with three friends to celebrate. 
“It seemed like a typical Cantina night,” 
he said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org101 Cantina draws final 
crowd before closing 
THE CHAPTER WAS BANNED 
AFTER MEMBERS REPORTEDL Y 
URINATED ON DISABLED 
VETERANS .
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
After a two-year ban from campus, the 
Zeta Beta Tau fraternity is back at UF.
The fraternity’s UF chapter was banned 
after members reportedly urinated, spit and 
poured beer on a group of disabled veterans 
from a balcony before stealing their American 
flags during a formal at Panama City Beach in April 2015, CNN reported. 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said the uni-
versity spoke to the fraternity’s national head-quarters, and both parties agreed in Spring 2015 to close the chapter. The earliest ZBT could come back to campus was Spring 2017.
The fraternity took responsibility for some of the accusations, Sikes said, but others re-main alleged because no evidence was found.
“They’re completely clear,” she said.Sikes said the fraternity had to recruit all 
new members after the Spring 2015 incident to reopen its chapter. But they can now re-cruit on campus, organize events and act as any other fraternity. 
The chapter does not have a house on 
campus, said UF spokesperson John Hines.
“We’re excited to have ZBT back on cam-
pus,” Sikes said. “They’re a large frat nation-ally. We expect good things out of ZBT.”
Laurence Bolotin, the national fraternity’s 
executive director, said in an emailed state-
ment that the fraternity is pleased the suspen-
sion was lifted.
“We are thrilled that ZBT will be returning 
to the home of the Gator Nation and we look forward to partnering with the University to 
help create a chapter that all will be proud 
of,” wrote ZBT International President Nor-man M. Waas in the statement from Bolotin.After 2-year suspension, 
Zeta Beta Tau back at UF
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
From left: 37-year-old Get Barber accompanies his girlfriend, 
29-year-old Laurel Huntoon, to the Fourth Annual Roe v. Wade Anniversary Show, where the bands The Howleez, Bite Marks, The Ones to Blame, Endless Pools and Guts! performed. “I love the bands, ” Huntoon said.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
“Thank you for all the memo-
ries,” Ornella Saragusti wrote in 
chalk on the wall of her home away 
from home Saturday.
“I can be my truest form of myself 
here,” the 18-year-old UF economics freshman said.
After decades across from UF, the 
Institute of Black Culture and the In-stitute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, known as the IBC and La Casita, will undergo renovations near the end of the semester, said Gabe Lara, the di-rector of Hispanic and Latino Affairs. Some students who found a home at 
the buildings said goodbye to the IBC 
on Friday and La Casita on Saturday, located at 1510 and 1504 W. Univer-sity Avenue, respectively. 
“We’re not going away,” said Di-
ana Moreno, the assistant director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs. “It’s a see you later.”
The new, larger facilities will 
have updated technology and more accessibility for disabled students, Moreno said.
Construction, which will cost 
about $5 million, will end Spring 2018, Lara said.
Those involved with the pro-
grams appreciate the university’s commitment to improving the build-
ings — especially since UF is still 
predominantly white, Moreno said.
Ashley White, a 20-year-old UF 
food and resource economics ju-nior, said the program’s current relationship with UF is a stark con-trast to when the IBC was founded. In 1971, during events known as Black Thursday, students demanded 
space on campus by occupying UF 
President Stephen O’Connell’s office, leading to the arrest or suspension of 67 people.
Students also fought for La Ca-
sita, which opened in 1994. Rosana Resende, a UF Latin American Stud-ies professor, said it was “born of fire and activism.”
White said UF’s help with reno-
vations show IBC and La Casita are being taken seriously.
“It gives us something to look for-
ward to in the future with race rela-tions on campus,” White said. 
On Friday, Dale McPherson, 
the Black Student Union president in 1972 when the center opened, reflected on the time surrounding Black Thursday. 
McPherson said students knew 
O’Connell, after whom UF named its O’Connell Center, wouldn’t be un-derstanding. He said when O’Connell 
was a judge, he ruled against UF’s 
integration.
“We didn’t have any particu-
lar hope about dealing with him,” McPherson said.Vee Byrd, the director of Black 
Affairs, plans to maintain the IBC’s hard-fought history. The renovated building will have a room to hold 
scrapbooks and declarations from 
decades ago.
“We’re able to honor our rich his-
tory and honor those who fought, lit-erally fought so hard, for us to have this facility,” Byrd said.
Students at IBC and La Casita 
said farewells with feelings of un-ease. Meriza Candia, a 22-year-old 
political science junior, said she 
hopes the new buildings have the same warmth, which carried many through laughter and tears.
“I want the same feeling to be 
there,” she said “I don’t want it to be just another building.”
‘See you later’: Students say goodbye to La Casita, IBC 
ABOUT 500 PEOPLE 
COMMEMORATED THE 
44TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF ROE V . WADE ON 
SATURDAY.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
In a theatrical performance, 14 men 
and a nun discussed what should hap-pen to a woman’s body on Saturday.
The performance was part of the 
Fourth Annual Roe v. Wade Anniver-
sary Show in downtown Gainesville. 
More than 500 people attended the event, which honored the 44th anni-versary of Roe v. Wade and celebrated the right to have an abortion. 
On Jan. 22, 1973, the U.S. Supreme 
Court decided abortion was a funda-mental right for women in the country.
More than $1,000 in donations was 
raised at the event for the National Women’s Liberation, a pro-abortion-rights nonprofit that advocates for women’s rights.The show, hosted at The Wooly, 
located at 20 N. Main St.,  featured live 
music, speakers and a performance 
about the history of reproductive rights, said Kendra Vincent, an NWL organizer.
“I think that people were happy to 
be out and around like-minded people and feel like they have some hope,” Vincent said.
Signs that read, “I’m one of 
65,844,610 Americans against Trump,” 
“Keep Abortion Legal,” “Women’s 
Rights Are Humans Rights” and “Make 
America Think Again” were displayed during the event.
Gainesville resident Cara Negri said 
President Donald Trump’s first days in office have been discouraging, and the possibility of reversing Roe v. Wade is dangerous for all women.
“I think some of me is still in de-
nial,” the 37-year-old said of Trump’s presidency. “I’m nervous about the future.” 
The fundraiser, usually held the 
weekend of the anniversary, was pushed back a week because of the large number of NWL members par-ticipating in the Women’s March on Washington.
After Trump was elected in No-
vember, there was a large increase in participation with NWL in Gainesville, Vincent said.
“People are becoming more en-
gaged, people are paying more at-tention,” Vincent said. “Just because you don’t like politics doesn’t mean it doesn’t affect you, and I think more people are noticing that.”
Although not a member of NWL, 
Gina Davis said she came to the event to enjoy music and support women’s reproductive rights.
“Thank god I’ve never had to have 
an abortion, but if it came down to it, what if I didn’t have that right?” Davis said.
Davis, 37, said men shouldn’t have 
a say in abortion issues.
“I just don’t see how men can de-
cide what we want to do — they’re out of the picture,” she said. “They’re gone. It has nothing to do with them.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org City celebrates abortion rightsThe buildings will open Spring 2018 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
In 40-degree weather, about 20 
protesters in Gainesville huddled 
together under overcast skies to protest a pipeline set to run through Alachua County. 
The demonstration, held on the 
corner of Northwest 34th Street and West University Avenue, aimed to bring attention to the construction of the Sabal Trail pipeline, a natu-ral-gas pipeline set to run through Alabama, Georgia and Florida after its completion in March 2017, ac-cording to the Sabal Trail Trans-mission website. 
As it passes underneath Ala-
chua County, near Newberry and Bronson, the pipeline may threaten residents’ drinking water, said Jus-tin Goldsman, an event organizer and UF master’s student.
Goldsman, who also protested 
at Standing Rock Indian Reserva-tion against the Dakota Access 
pipeline, said the cold weather on 
the Gainesville street corner was nothing compared to that of North Dakota, where protesters were at one point hosed down to persuade them to leave the construction site.
Goldsman said residents of the 
county cannot ignore the Sabal Trail’s construction much longer.
“We can only make excuses for 
so long,” the 23-year-old said.
The protesters cheered as honk-
ing cars passed by. 
Jane McNulty, 59, kept her dog 
Katy, 13, in a stroller surrounded 
by blankets. At one point, when a 
car passed and someone yelled out, “Make America great,” McNulty laughed it off and shook her head.
“This isn’t political,” the 
Gainesville resident said. “I would 
have been out here regardless of 
who became president.”
Stephanie Salagan, 35, who at-
tended the protest, left her home in Montreal to warn people about fracking and pipelines. She said she was living in Canada in 2013 when a train carrying gas exploded in Quebec, killing 47 people and 
polluting the water.
“You have to act now before it’s 
too late,” Salagan said.At the end of the day, remain-
ing protesters walked to the 34th 
Street Wall and painted, “No 
more pipelines” in sky blue capi-
tal letters. Even as it began raining, Goldsman, enthusiastic to paint on the wall for the ﬁ  rst time, said he hoped the message he left isn’t washed away or painted over.
“I don’t know if it will do any-
thing,” he said. “I hope it will.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
Protesters  ﬁ  ght pipeline set to run under Alachua County
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer  
For four hours Sunday, Charlie 
Rash sat alone waiting for some-one to sign up with his Student Government party.
“Seeing a steady stream of 
people for Impact didn’t really faze me,” said Rash, the vice president for the newly formed Progress Party. “We’re kind of the David to their Goliath.” 
Sunday was the ﬁ  rst day stu-
dents registered to run as Student Senate candidates for Spring elec-tions. About 45 students qualiﬁ  ed, 
all running with Impact Party, 
wrote UF Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs in an email.
In Spring 2016, 289 students 
registered with Impact, 61 regis-tered with Access Party and ﬁ  ve registered as independent, accord-ing to Alligator archives.
Senators are elected in Spring 
based on their college and year at UF. Hobbs said starting Sunday gave busy students the opportunity to sign up.
Audra Weeks, 18, said she reg-
istered as a College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Impact senator because her friends, who are Im-pact senators, said she should. 
“They seem to be making an 
impact on campus,” said the UF agricultural education and com-munication junior.
Within the last 15 minutes 
of registration, one person ap-proached the Progress table, inter-ested in running as a freshman or business senator, Rash said. 
“It was a breath of fresh air to 
have him show up at the last min-ute,” the 18-year-old UF ﬁ  nance freshman said, adding that the stu-dent hasn’t ofﬁ  cially registered. 
Interviewing continues today 
from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union Student Activities and In-volvement Ofﬁ  ce.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Low turnout on ﬁ  rst 
day of SG qualifying  
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
BLACK HISTORY MONTH KICKOFF
Club Creole dancers Michael Mathelier and Anny-Vingie Keira Smith perform a dance at the Black 
History Month Opening Ceremony at the Reitz Union on Sunday. Ebony Love, a UF history junior and the assistant director of UF’s Black History Month, talked about the theme of the event, which was #IRaiseMyFistBecause, saying, “A lot of times black culture is misunderstood in the media, and what I wanted to do was just have a way for us to present our culture in a way that is deﬁ  nitive of the students of the University of Florida. ”
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Part one: Observations in modern-day Cuba
Cuba is an island trapped in time. 
Old American and Russian cars zip through crumbling avenues and 
around 1920s-era buildings. Some are 
painted bright colors, others are faded 
or outright falling into ruin. The Caribbean sun beats down intensely, made more gentle 
by a forgiving ocean breeze. Perpetual sounds 
of crowded streets, howling merchants, roaring automobiles and music fill the air. You catch whiffs of diesel exhaust, hot food or perhaps just the sea.
This was the Cuba I knew over Winter Break 
when I had the opportunity to travel there to perform journalistic activities — one of the 12 special categories an American must fall into to travel to the communist 
island. Accompanying me was an American who was 
born and raised in Cuba, and through the aid of her family and friends still living on the island, I was able to see a side of the country that perhaps eludes many foreign visitors. My experience gave me hope for the 
future of U.S.-Cuba relations and American travel to 
Cuba.
Of one thing I am confident: American visitors will 
love Cuba. They will love it not only for its pristine white beaches, coral reefs and majestic mountainsides, but 
for its vibrant music, dancing, rich history and cultural 
heritage. Then, there are the prices. When making the conversion to the CUC, or Cuban peso (the two currencies on the island), housing, goods and food were generally half the price they 
would be here. Americans will also be drawn 
to a forbidden allure that still surrounds the island.     
Since the fall of the Soviet Union, 
Cuba’s government has opened itself up to international tourism in an effort to curb extreme economic hardship. But the U.S., 
with its longstanding embargo against the island, forbids its citizens from engaging in tourism or other 
forms of commerce with Cuba in an effort to destabilize 
its government. Cubans on the island refer to this as the “Blockade,” which their leaders blame for many of the country’s woes. It is symbolized by a noose in 
government-sponsored images.
However, America’s Cold War-era policy toward 
Cuba began to change rapidly in the twilight years of the 
Barack Obama administration. Many will recall the deal Pope Francis helped broker between Obama and Cuban 
leader Raúl Castro in 2014 to re-establish diplomatic 
relations, an “example of reconciliation for the world,” ending a half century of estrangement. Then, in 2015, Secretary of State John Kerry raised the American flag 
over our new embassy in Havana, and just this past 
year, Obama became the first American president to visit Cuba in 88 years. The Obama administration, on their part, has instituted regulatory changes that make it easier for citizens to travel to the island, opening the 
way for relations to improve.
Read a continuation of this column on American 
travel to Cuba and the death of Fidel Castro tomorrow.
Ford Dwyer is a third-year student at UF’s Levin Col-
lege of Law. This is part one of a three-part series. Call to action: 
Protect our 
international 
community
In the past week, we’ve tried to give this new administration 
the benefit of the doubt. We’ve talked about choices, keeping in mind that statistically, half our readership voted for our new president. Though we’ve expressed hesitation at some of his more bombastic orders, we have tried to hope that in the end, 
moderation would win out. But we cannot do that anymore.
This goes beyond the left and the right. We’re not going to point 
fingers, or scream or throw things. We are simply going to ask the UF community and our readers to stand up for our international stu-dents. This is not an easy time for anyone, but for our international students, staff and faculty, their lives and safety are at risk. Right now, we need to put aside our politics and pride and stand up for our diverse community. 
If you somehow have not heard, President Donald Trump on Fri-
day signed an immigration order banning citizens from seven Mus-lim-majority nations from entering the U.S. for the next 90 days. This includes international students who may have been out of the coun-try, people with visas, people who hold dual citizenship, refugees running from war-torn regions and one of the Oscar-nominated di-rectors for best foreign-language film. After mass protests at airports across the country, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security eased the order’s restriction on green-card holders returning to the U.S. At any rate, people are being denied entrance into the country. That includes people who have lived here for years, study here and have nowhere else to go. This is not the America we were told stories of, the one where the Statue of Liberty welcomes all — “your tired, your poor, your huddled masses.” This is a country built by immigrants, people seeking asylum, diversity and culture.
This should not be a country turning people away; not people 
who live here, study here or have gone through all the necessary measures to be here. We once prided ourselves on being a melting pot of different cultures, a safe haven for those who seek it. There’s always been xenophobia and racism in our country, but for the lon-gest time, we could fight it. We were fighting it. And now more than ever, we must fight it.
There’s hope. There are lawyers gathering in the John F. Ken-
nedy International Airport to aid those held in customs. The Ameri-can Civil Liberties Union sued Trump’s order and won a temporary injunction against the deportation of those currently stranded in air-ports across the country. But the road is long. We may grow weary. We may begin to think of this as a distant news story. We may lose hope.
But we can’t. Because for some — many right here at UF — this 
is not some far-off story. This is a very real anger, a very real fear.
Sunday, UF President Kent Fuchs issued a statement affirming 
UF’s support for our international community and reassuring us that all immigration records are kept private in compliance with federal and state law. He also attended an on-campus protest of Trump’s order on Sunday. We thank him for this. We need to support our international students, staff and faculty. 
We need to let them know we will be here for them — we 
will protect their rights and safety.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORFord Dwyer
opinions@alligator.org
“The Caribbean sun beats down 
intensely, made more gentle by 
a forgiving ocean breeze.”In big block letters over the whiteboard, 
the poster read: “Good teachers don’t teach you what to think. They teach you how to think.” Even at 16, I knew my 10th-grade AP World History teacher em-
bodied the message she had hung up in her classroom. She taught well, with respect for us and pride for her work, with the kindness and empathy to reach way back into the early days of history and teach us angsty adolescents a thing or two.
This style of teaching, which my favorite 
teachers throughout my public-school life demonstrated in every class, has always struck a chord with me. I learn best through example and experience, through diverse — and some-times contradicting — role models who offer old methods and pioneer new strategies for tackling life’s challenges, successes and even mundanities. This is why I study philosophy.
As trite as it might sound, philosophy, its 
prominent thinkers and its present-day profes-sors have taught me how to think, not what to think (and why that dis-tinction is important). Philosophy keeps me grounded for several rea-sons. For one, it reminds me noth-ing is perfect.
Every philosophy course I’ve 
taken at UF demands my under-standing of this notion of imperfec-tion. I must explain each argument, carefully describe the evidence sup-porting it and then turn around and ﬁ  nd its holes. After I’ve sufﬁ  ciently critiqued its weaker points, I must turn around again and defend the argument from my own objec-tions. Only then can I determine which side I agree with. What’s not to love about a disci-pline that encourages analysis from all sides before evaluating one’s own stance? Further, what’s not to love about an academic branch that can admit its own faults?
Philosophy also promotes lines of thought I wouldn’t have considered before. Studying moral philosophy one se-mester emboldened me to consider three distinct, multi-faceted types of ethics and ﬁ  gure out for my-self which I preferred. At the end of the course, I ended up favoring Aristotle’s virtue ethics — in case anyone was wondering — and this preference inspired me to think about how I could apply his moral philosophy to my own daily life. In 
effect, I tried to make Aristotle one of my role models (though he still isn’t perfect).
There are many more reasons I love phi-
losophy, but in the interest of space I will end with just one more: Philosophy equips its stu-dents with another thinking strategy rather than just providing content to learn. It sup-ports both measured, logically sound thought and in-the-moment analysis. I think of it like the central rule of improvisation: Always say “yes, and ...” You’re allowed to object in or-der to take things in a new direction, but you can’t just say no and leave it at that. You keep thinking. You raise concerns and provide vi-able solutions. Philosophy has shown me the value of listening with an open mind and then going on to speak my own.
My experience with philosophy is nowhere 
near over. Heck, I’ve loved philosophy so much lately that now I’m researching phi-losophy Ph.D. programs when I look up law schools. My goal in telling you this isn’t to convince you to abruptly change your major (I don’t believe I even have that power). These are simply words of encouragement for an era of disagreement. Take a lesson from phi-losophy: Disagreement doesn’t mean we can’t move forward. It just means we should know how to think ﬁ  rst.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF philosophy and 
criminology and law junior. Her column ap-pears on Mondays.
Why I study philosophy: learning how, not what, to think — and why that mattersColumn
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   78   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
Even though he hasn’t been 
to the restaurant in about five 
years, this trip was particularly special, he said. For the first time, he brought his daughters Kaia, 7, and Sienna, 4, to eat a Gainesville-famous meal.“It’s a pilgrimage,” he said.Sienna took one large bite of a 
hard-shell taco and nodded in si-lent approval. She was even a fan of the special-made taco sauce. 
Huber said when he was in 
college, he would get 10 packets of “love sauce” at a time and use them at home. He said he would keep the sauce in the refrigerator and use it for everything, from eggs in the morning to a barbecue marinade. 
“We fought over the last one,” 
he said. “Stealing someone’s Burri-to Bros. sauce is like taking some-one’s last beer.”
For his last meal at the restau-rant, Huber ordered an original beef burrito with nothing added but sauce. 
“Without it, I’d feel like a part 
of my history, connected to my hometown and college town, would be gone forever,” he said. 
Huber decided he would buy a 
shirt for old times sake, and Sienna quickly responded that she wanted one too. 
“Can I have a tie-dye one?” Kaia 
asked. 
“The whole family is getting T-
shirts today,” he said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
BURRITOS,  from pg.1The restaurant noted a 23 percent loss in revenue last yeargrants. It’s not human beings to them 
— it’s just a word.” 
A federal judge ruled Saturday 
that people who had returned to the U.S. from the affected countries and 
were being detained in U.S. airports 
could not be sent back, although the White House said the ruling doesn’t affect the executive order.
When Nikka Vakhtiar, 18, heard 
of the ban, she was confused. 
“It kind of just felt like out of the 
blue,” the UF biology freshman said. “It’s not like there are any direct 
threats.”
Her confusion quickly turned to 
anger as she thought of her family 
in Iran, who wants to travel to her cousin’s graduation this summer. Vakhtiar left Iran when she was 6 months old. Now she doesn’t know when she’ll see her family again. 
“This completely threw us all off,” 
she said. “I’m kind of scared about it. It feels like it’s just the beginning.”
Susanne Hill, the executive direc-
tor of the UF International Center, wrote in an email that no students are currently studying in the coun-tries affected by the ban. 
On Sunday, protesters took to the 
street to share the same message of 
solidarity. About 15 people stood on 
the corner of Northwest 34th Street and West University Avenue to pro-test the ban.
Taylor Spruce, a UF psychol-
ogy freshman, held a sign reading, “I stand with Muslim immigrants.” The 18-year-old said her boyfriend has family in Iran and can’t travel to his home country without fearing whether he can return.
“This ban affects us all,” she said. On UF’s campus, about 150 
people chanted on Turlington Plaza 
as they spoke out against the ban. 
Protesters marched from Turlington along University Avenue to its inter-section with Southwest 13th Street.
While cars honked in approval, 
some spectators screamed in anger at the protestors. Participants shouted, “No hate, no bigotry, no Muslim registry” and “Ban Trump, not Mus-
lims.”
Ghaffari, who organized the pro-
test, said she created the Facebook 
event Saturday evening to speak out.
“I was tired of being quiet,” she 
said.
Ghaffari was born in Iran and mi-
grated to the U.S. with her parents when she was 9. Although she’s an 
atheist, she said she feels like Muslim 
immigrants aren’t treated fairly.
“There’s this misplaced fear of 
terrorists when it comes to Muslims,” she said. “We’re still being punished and still being treated as the other, as the enemy, even if we haven’t done anything.” 
At the beginning of the protest, 
Vasudha Narayanan, a UF religion professor, read a statement from President Fuchs addressing the pro-testers’ concerns. Narayanan said UF spokesperson Janine Sikes asked her to read Fuchs’ letter. 
The statement said UF supports 
its international community and keeps students’ records private.At about 6:45 p.m., Fuchs walked 
over to the protest from Tigert Hall, thanking protesters for supporting Muslim students, he wrote in an email.
Rana Al-Nahhas, whose parents 
are Syrian immigrants, said she was glad Fuchs came to the UF protest. 
“He wasn’t there very long but 
the fact that he showed up meant so much for us,” she said. “I broke down seeing that many people out there to say that I am welcome here, I am safe, they do not accept this intol-erance and this hatred and this fear.”
Margaret Clifford, a UF research 
assistant, wrote in an email that she sent a letter with 50 signatures to Fuchs on Sunday night regarding the ban. The letter asked Fuchs to ensure that UF community members affected by the ban won’t be penal-ized monetarily, academically or pro-fessionally.
“It’s important that we strongly 
and loudly oppose any legislation or cultural shift toward increased xenophobia,” the 30-year-old said. “The University of Florida is an inter-national community and it is impor-tant to me that people, regardless of what passports they carry, feel safe to learn, to live, and to express them-
selves here.”
By Sunday night, another petition 
asking Fuchs to condemn Trump’s executive order had gained 3,000 
signatures. While UF students band together in protests, letters and peti-tions, Ghaffari said people should re-alize Muslims aren’t dangerous.
She said she grew up accustomed 
to people treating her like a foreign animal, even her classmates in el-ementary school, but Trump’s ban will make it worse.
“I’m not going to bite you,” she 
said. “Somehow that elementary school kid became the president.”
Staff writers Catherine Dickson, 
Meryl Kornfield, Katelyn Newberg 
and Jimena Tavel contributed to this report.
BAN,  from pg. 1About 150 protested the immigration ban on UF’s campus
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Samira Roostaie, center,  a 30-year-old UF art history graduate student, holds a sign that reads, “Muslim Rights are Humans Rights, ” while standing in a circle of about 150 people during a protest Sunday.  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
About 150 people who gathered on Turlington Plaza march north on Newell Drive on Sunday afternoon while chanting, “Muslims are welcome here. ”
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Behnaz, a 42-year-old UF science management master’s student who wanted her last name to remain anonymous, stands with a group of about 150 people on Turlington Plaza to protest President Donald Trump’s Muslim ban. “This is not together, this is segregation, ” she said.
MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Scottie Andrew
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After tempers flared at a four-hour protest against 
the use of a swastika on campus, UF students relieved 
their stress with dogs and doughnuts Friday.
Outside the Reitz Union Breezeway and later on 
Turlington Plaza, the site of Thursday’s protest, stu-
dents paid a dollar each to eat a doughnut and pet, hug or snap photos with three dogs — a yorkie, a corgi and an English cream Golden Retriever.
By the end of the day, $200 was raised.
For the UF Pscyhology Club, it was a welcome 
turnout for its inaugural “Doggos and Doughnuts” fundraiser, said Chloe Kemble, the organization’s fun-draising director. Kemble said the dogs attracted more people than most of the club’s fundraisers have.
After students and others protested a man wearing a swastika armband Thursday, Kemble said, the dogs provided some joy to those involved.
“I think if anybody was affected and they did come 
out, I hope they were able to relieve some stress,” the 21-year-old UF psychology junior said.
Among the attending dogs were Mr. Darcy, Kem-
ble’s 3-year-old yorkie, and Apollo, the club presi-dent’s 8-month-old English cream golden retriever.
Victor Cao, a 21-year-old UF marketing senior, 
brought Rudy, his 7-year-old corgi, for people to take photos with.
Cao said he isn’t a club member; he just wanted to 
promote Rudy’s Instagram account.
“He likes meeting new people, too,” he said.Kemble said she knew the dogs would easily at-
tract passing students.
“I guess it’s an excuse to get happiness out there,” 
she said.After protests, students find 
relief with dogs and doughnutsBy Paige Fry 
and Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writers
Members of the UF community 
gathered around a man preaching 
about love on Friday — a day af-ter students and faculty members protested against a man wearing a 
swastika armband.
Tyler Ellman, a Jewish UF stu-
dent, said he organized the Liber-ation Rally on Holocaust Remem-
brance Day to bring the university community together, regardless of religion. More than 200 UF stu-dents, faculty and staff came to show their support on Turlington Plaza.
On Thursday, Michael Dewitz 
stood in the same place on Tur-
lington, wearing a swastika arm-
band as protesters berated him for four-hours. Dewitz, 34, didn’t ap-pear at Friday’s rally, but Ellman said University Police were noti-fied of the protest beforehand to beef up security just in case. He said if Dewitz did come, Ellman planned to ignore him. 
“I’m really proud of The Gator Nation today,” the 22-year-old 
theater and telecommunication 
senior said. 
Ellman, wearing a Star of Da-
vid necklace and an Israel Defense Forces shirt, stood on the concrete bench surrounding the potato statue with local religious officials Rabbi Berl Goldman, 45, on his left and Rabbi Adam Grossman, 
40, on his right.
Goldman, of the Lubavitch 
Chabad Jewish Center, said he 
was happy the previous day’s pro-test remained peaceful and Dewitz wasn’t harmed by protesters. De-witz was, however, attacked off-campus by two men afterward, Gainesville Police said.
Grossman, of UF Hillel, said 
Friday’s rally was a showcase of what the world could be when people choose to love instead of hate.
“The hope of a rally like this 
is to not be an ending point but rather a starting point to more community, more collaboration, 
to rule out hate in our communi-
ties,” he said. 
As the rally ended, the crowd 
joined together to sing John Len-non’s “Imagine.”
Jacob Zieper, 21, said he want-
ed to celebrate his Jewish heritage after Dewitz directed a Nazi salute at him on Thursday.
“It kind of killed my morn-
ing,” he said. “As a proud Jewish student at UF, it can be scary to witness something like what hap-pened.”
The UF Jewish studies senior 
said anti-Semitism is often ignored because some feel the Jewish community is no longer margin-alized. When a diverse crowd at-tended the rally, it was meaning-ful, he said.
“We’re here,” he said. “We’re 
proud of who we are as Jew-
ish Gators — Jewish Americans. 
We’re not going anywhere.” 
Later that night at Chabad’s 
weekly service, Goldman said he felt comforted to see those who went to Turlington to commem-orate the liberation of the Aus-chwitz concentration camp.
“Sometimes through the most 
challenging or negative elements, something dark, the greatest light is represented.”After swastika protests, 200 
remember Holocaust at UF rally
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A day after a swastika sighting on campus sparked a four-hour protest, more than 200 people 
gathered on Turlington Plaza to attend the UF Liberation Rally on Friday, which also marked Inter-national Holocaust Remembrance Day.
By Jamie Honowitz 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students gathered on UF’s 
North Lawn on Friday to demolish 
a wall of hate, for some a meta-
phor for their country’s current po-
litical backdrop.
During the Writing on the Wall 
Project, hosted by UF’s Inter-Resi-
dence Hall Association Social Jus-
tice, students scrawled negative words on bricks to essentially form a wall of hate.
After a week, students tore it 
down in honor of anyone impacted by the language, said Sanaya Tam-boli, the director of IRHA Social Justice. While about 200 people 
watched the wall come down, 
some students drew parallels to America’s current political context.
About 360 people contributed a 
brick to the wall, which was built 
on the lawn instead of its usual 
spot on the Plaza of the Americas because construction, the 20-year-old UF political science and inter-
national studies junior said.
Rachel Richards, a 21-year-old 
UF anthropology senior, said the 
project brought students together. After participating in the protest 
against Michael Dewitz, who wore 
a swastika armband on Turlington Plaza on Thursday, Richards said she felt more peaceful helping tear 
down the wall.
“What stuck out to me the most 
was when we got to a heavy brick, 
we had to lift it together,” Richards said. “One person couldn’t have 
done it alone. It’s very symbolic.” 
Duncan Adkin, a 20-year-old 
UF digital arts and sciences sopho-
more, agreed that students were 
unified when the wall came down. 
“Especially with the political cli-
mate today and President Trump, 
it feels good to be breaking down walls, not building them,” he said.For 15th year, wall 
of hate razed at UF
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
About 100 students and com-
munity members joined a musical 
procession Sunday to celebrate the completion of a hand-written To-rah.
In Jewish tradition, adding a 
new Torah, a religious text, to a community is an extremely spe-cial occasion, similar to a wedding, bar mitzvah or bat mitzvah, said Chanie Goldman, the co-director of the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Cen-ter. The center’s fifth Torah was carried under a canopy as members 
of the place of worship, located 
at 2021 NW Fifth Ave., sang and danced in celebration.
“The Torah is synonymous with 
the continuity and longevity of our people,” she said. “It’s like we’re celebrating our fifth child.”
The scroll was dedicated in 
honor of the late Rabbi Menachem 
Schneersohon, an influential jew-
ish leader known by many as The Rebbe, Goldman said.
It typically takes a year for a 
Sofer, a specially trained scribe, to write an entire Torah by hand with quill and ink, according to the Chabad website. The scripture is complete with more than 300,000 
letters. 
In addition to singing, dancing 
and listening to speakers, those 
who attended the ceremony had the opportunity to have a letter of the new Torah dedicated in their honor.
“Each letter in the Torah… rep-
resents each human being,” Gold-
man said. “Although each letter is 
different, as each person is differ-ent, they’re all bound together in the same book.”
Chelsea Pincus, a UF communi-
cations and health science senior, said she visits Chabad for every shabbat, a Friday night dinner and religious service, and tries to help out around the center as much as she can.
“It’s great to see role models and 
older people dedicating their time to grow Judaism on campus,” Pin-cus, 21, said. 
Maia Groman said Sunday was 
the first time she was able to ex-perience a Torah dedication in Gainesville, and the event was ex-citing for everyone at the center. 
“It’s a time for the community 
to get together and celebrate our heritage,” said the 19-year-old UF advertising sophomore.
Groman, who visits the cen-
ter three to six times a week, said members of the center have leaned on each other since Michael Dewitz appeared on Turlington Plaza wear-
ing a swastika armband last week.
“It’s definitely brought the com-
munity together, but we’ve always 
been strong, and we always will be,” she said.
Dewitz’s presence sparked a  
four-hour protest on campus, with about dozens of students express-ing support for Jewish community 
members and scorn for the anti-
Semitic emblem.
“It showed all of us how much 
support we have in our community and from the university, which was really an amazing thing to see,” Groman said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgNew Torah celebrated 
at Jewish center Sunda y MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Song of praise
6 Madagascar
primate
11 “Norma __”14 Fiber-__ cable
15 Last Olds model
16 Make a decision17 Massachusetts
witch trial town
18 Frenzied19 Speedometer
reading: Abbr.
20 Mork’s sign-off
22 Cute Aussie
“bear”
24 What we breathe
25 In favor of26 Native of
Damascus
27 Chinese menu
letters
28 Eastside
Manhattanthoroughfare
31 Dijon darling
33 Brain scan: Abbr.
34 Had the best
record in
35 Confidentially, in
Cannes
39 Univ. near
Harvard
41 Unspecified
number
42 Choppers
46 Boat made from
a hollowed treetrunk
50 Ship, to a sailor51 Zambia neighbor52 Suffix with east53 Male or female54 Pastoral poem55 Request for the
latest update
58 Cozy cat seat59 Kind of Boy
Scout badge
61 Ancient region of
Asia Minor
63 “Lux” composer
Brian
64 Tylenol
alternative
65 “Filthy” moolah66 “Sure thing”67 Eight plus one, to
aviators
68 Disdainful grin
DOWN
1 Places to buy
stamps: Abbr.
2 Language of
Chile
3 On the loose4 Property
encumbrance
5 Golden Arches
egg sandwich
6 Hollywood’s
Hedy
7 Stylish vigor8 Café chalkboard
listing
9 Ocean State 
sch.
10 1990 Stallone
boxing film whichat the time wasthought to be theconclusion of itsseries
11 Caesar salad
lettuce
12 Give a hand to
13 Flammable
hydrocarbon
21 There’s __ in
“team”
23 Bully’s threat
ender
24 “Breaking Bad”
channel
26 Palm starch
29 “Later, bro”30 X, to Cato32 Update factory
machinery
36 “Toodles!”
37 GOP fundraising
org.38 Kitchen
implements
39 Humdrum
40 “Lust for Life”
punk rocker
43 Defining 
quality
44 2000s crime
drama set inBaltimore
45 Cast a spell 
on
46 Dan of old 
MGM musicals47 Tracey on whose
show “TheSimpsons”debuted
48 More orderly
49 Dinner plate scrap
55 Chirpy bird
56 Home with
drones
57 Sentence
subject, as a rule
60 Yale collegian62 __ Lingus: Irish
carrier
By Kevin Christian and Andrea Carla Michaels©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/30/1701/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, January 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventure
comedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
1. In 2015, the Nationals’ Max 
Scherzer became the sixth pitcher to 
toss two no-hitters in a season. Name 
three of the other five to do it.
2. The New York Mets’ Daniel Mur -
phy set a record in 2015 for homering in the most consecutive postseason 
games (six). Who had held the record?
3. Who was the first NFL player to 
tally 1,000 points for two different teams?
4. When was the last time before 
2016 (Wisconsin) that a winning team in an NCAA Tournament men’s basketball game scored 47 or fewer points?
5. Which did NHL legend Gordie 
Howe win more of: the Hart Trophy 
(league MVP) or the Art Ross Trophy 
(top scorer)?
6. When was the last time before 
2016 that the Colorado Rapids reached the conference finals of the MLS Cup playoffs?
7. In 2016, Nyquist became the 
second horse in 10 years to win the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile race one year and the Kentucky Derby the next. Who was the other?
Answers
1. Johnny Vander Meer (1938), Allie 
Reynolds (‘51), Virgil Trucks (‘52), Nolan Ryan (‘73) and Roy Halladay (2010).
2. Carlos Beltran of the Houston 
Astros did it in five consecutive post-season games in 2004.
3. Adam Vinatieri, with New 
England and Indianapolis.
4. Butler scored 47 points in a win 
versus Mississippi State in 2003.
5. He won six of each.6. It was 2010, when the Rapids won 
the MLS Cup.
7. Street Sense, in 2006-07. 
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 30, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Roland Thornqvist and the Florida women's tennis team dominted over the weekend. Read the story, pg. 14Florida football gains recruit 
With National Signing Day approaching on Wednesday, coach Jim McElwain 
got some good news on Sunday night when three-star safety Donovan 
Stiner backed off his pledge to Houston, opting to commit to the Gators 
instead. He was UF's third commit of the weekend. 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
As Ronni Williams strolled off 
the court at Memorial Gymnasium 
for the ﬁ  nal time on Sunday after-
noon, she was drenched in sweat 
and breathing heavily. Neverthe-less, the senior still managed to put on a smile as her teammates and 
coaches swarmed her with hugs 
and high-ﬁ  ves on Florida’s side-line.
Playing on the road against 
Vanderbilt, Williams put on an 
absolute show for the Commodore 
faithful this weekend, notching a career-high 43 points as well as 14 rebounds, four steals and three as-
sists to lead the Gators to a 93-73 
victory.
The Daytona Beach native shot 
14-of-23 from the ﬁ  eld and con-nected on 15-of-17 attempts from 
the charity stripe to complete one 
of the greatest offensive perfor-mances by a UF player in program history.
Williams’ 43 points are the most 
from a Gator in over two decades, when Merlakia Jones scored 44 points on Jan. 25, 1995. 
Quientella Bonner holds Flori-
da’s all-time single game scoring record with 45 points on Jan. 22, 1977.
“I’ll tell you what: That girl is 
a warrior,” coach Amanda Butler said of Williams in a release. “She understands how important she is to her team, and she knows that 
she has to score points for us… I 
couldn’t be more proud.”
UF (11-10, 2-6 SEC) also got 
efﬁ  cient outings from freshman 
guard Delicia Washington and 
senior center Tyshara Fleming, who tallied 20 and 12 points, respectively.
Putting individual success aside, 
the Gators dominated Vanderbilt on the boards, converting 18 of-fensive rebounds into 19 second-chance points.
While the Commodores (11-11, 
1-8 SEC) did knock down 11 jump-ers from behind the three-point arc, Florida held them to  33.8-percent shooting from the ﬂ  oor, drawing 
praise from Butler after the contest 
for her team’s defensive pressure.
“We did a few different things 
to keep them off balance,” she 
said. “I thought we did a great job 
of whenever they made a run at us, we answered. And I think that  Williams leads UF 
to second SEC win
The Swamp is dry. The 
Gators are hibernating. But that doesn’t mean Florida football fans can relax. 
With the Super Bowl six 
days away, Gator fans have a stake this year:  
The Orange and Blue faith-
ful have an obligation to root for the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday. 
I realize the link between UF and Atlanta 
seems tenuous to some, but there are four reasons — some fact-based, some feeling-based  — why it’s in Gators fans' best in-terest to have the Dirty Birds topple the Patriots. 
Reason No. 1: Two former Gators are 
having huge rookie seasons for the Falcons. Defensive backs Keanu Neal 
and Brian Poole went from playing the 2016 SEC Champi-onship in the Georgia Dome to playing the NFC Championship Game in the same building a year later. 
Neal, a ﬁ  rst-round pick, has 
upped the stock of Gators DBs in his ﬁ  rst NFL season with 106 
tackles and ﬁ  ve forced fumbles. 
Poole, meanwhile, has proven the depth 
of Florida’s defense. Despite going undraft-ed, Poole has already become a bona ﬁ  de starter with 59 tackles and an interception for the Falcons. 
If you’re wondering how the Falcons 
managed to nab two of the most produc-tive rookies of the season, the next reason  Gators fans: Don't root for the Patriots
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After a three-month layoff from their last 
team tournament, the Gators women’s golf 
team is ﬁ  nally hitting the links again this afternoon in Lecanto, Florida. 
The annual Florida Challenge will pit 11 
Florida universities against each other in a one-day, 36-hole tournament. The No. 8 Gators will take on three other ranked teams in the ﬁ  eld, including No. 4 Florida State.
“There’s certainly a level of excitement sur-
rounding this team,” coach Emily Glaser said. “We have so many good players on this team that have experienced a lot of success."
Four different Gators recently competed in 
the South Atlantic Women’s Amateur Champi-onship from Jan. 8-14. Kelly Grassel shot 8-un-der par, narrowly beating out fellow senior Maria Torres by one stroke and sophomore Sam Wagner by three strokes. Grassel comes into the Florida Challenge af-
ter tying with junior Taylor Tomlinson for top individual honors at last year’s event.  Florida also took home the team trophy after besting 
FSU by 12 strokes a year ago. 
Grassel said the South Atlantic win was 
great, but that she and her teammates are 
ready to play under the UF banner again.
Meanwhile, Torres, who won last year’s 
individual title at the SEC Championship, said that since UF's roster is stacked with experi-ence, the burden of leadership has been dis-tributed equally. 
“We don’t have one that is taking over," 
she said. "We manage to all share every experience.” 
Torres and Grassel will be joined by senior 
Karolina Vlckova and freshmen Elin Esborn and Marta Perez in the starting lineup for the Gators today. 
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org UF to open Spring season  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF forward Ronni Williams shoots a ﬂ  oater in Florida's loss to T ennessee on Thursday in the 
O'Connell Center. Williams scored a career-high 43 points with 14 rebounds in the Gators' win 
against Vanderbilt on Sunday.
SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBAL,  PAGE 15
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727MONDAY MATTERS / OPINION WOMEN'S GOLFWOMEN'S BASKETBALL14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
The Ring Tennis Complex is becoming a 
stronghold for the Florida men’s team, as it 
registered victories over two schools in the ITA Kick-Off Tournament this weekend. 
The No. 11 Gators defeated both UNC-
Wilmington and LSU en route to ﬁ  nishing on top of the tournament, punching their ticket to the National Team Indoors tournament and losing only one set in the process.
“It’s a new year and a new team, and we 
are going to really enjoy this season,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “I thought our guys com-peted hard this weekend, and I’m glad that we have guaranteed ourselves a trip to the National Team Indoors.”
Florida faced off against UNCW on Satur-
day, and the theme for the matchup against the Seahawks was quick-ending matches. The doubles competition only lasted 22 min-
utes with UNCW winning one combined 
game.
The singles play wasn’t much different.The Seahawks only won four combined 
games in the decisive matches. Play only lasted for 55 minutes before captain Elliott Orkin put away UNCW’s Andres Torres to clinch the victory.Against SEC foe LSU, the action was more 
competitive but still swung heavily in favor of the Gators.
Doubles action barely eclipsed 25 minutes, while Florida won hard-fought singles matches, none of which concluded under the hour mark.
“So much of this game is built on conﬁ  dence,” Shelton said. “And the more times we made good plays, the more conﬁ  dent we got.”
The top performers on the weekend in-
clude seniors Orkin and Maxx Lipman, who ﬁ  nished their matches in a timely manner 
and captured points for their team against 
both UNCW and LSU.
Alfredo Perez issued a notable perfor-
mance as well against UNCW. He complet-ed a “double bagel” against UNCW’s No. 1-player Josh Hublitz, winning the match 6-0, 6-0.
Lipman also performed well, snatching a 
“bagel” of his own and losing only one game, 
defeating the Seahawks’ Daniel Groom 6-0, 
6-1.
Orkin and Kessler also shut out their 
UNCW opponents in doubles play, defeating the tandem of de Reuda/Groom 6-0. 
In all, the Gators’ No. 11 ranking wasn’t 
tested much this weekend as Florida outmatched its opponents. 
However, that won’t be the case this 
weekend when Florida plays the underdog role and gets its home strength tested against No. 8 Southern California on Saturday and No. 6 UCLA on Sunday.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org ‘New year... new team’: Gators men’s tennis shines
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
UF junior Chase Perez-Blanco returns a shot during the ITA Kick-Off T ournament on 
Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Entering the season, expectations 
were high for the Florida women’s 
tennis team. It held the No. 1 rank-ing, it was the SEC coaches’ pick to win the conference and its head coach boasted that this was his most talented team in 16 years. But despite the pressure, the Gators are living up 
to the hype.
Winning their 1,000th match in 
program history, Florida dominated 
the ITA Kick-Off Tournament this weekend, defeating DePaul 6-1 on Saturday and FIU 4-0 on Sunday. 
The Gators started quick on Sat-
urday, taking 26 minutes to capture the doubles point. Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock defeated DePaul’s Marina Cozac and Patricia Lancran-jan 6-0 while Anna Danilina and In-
grid Neel beat Yuliya Shupenia and 
Ana Vladutu 6-2 just ﬁ  ve minutes lat-er. Florida went on to capture all but one singles match to solidify its win. 
On Sunday, the Gators had to ﬁ  ght 
early on as FIU came out strong. 
“(FIU was) really feisty. They’re a 
really physical team,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “That’s exactly what we needed. We needed to be tested. We needed to ﬁ  gure some stuff out deep in sets.”
UF did just that as Danilina and 
Neel won 6-2 over FIU’s Ulyana Grib and Maryna Veksler. 
“We have gotten better every sin-
gle time we step on the court,” Neel said of her doubles partner. “We’re more comfortable with each other and knowing each other’s tendencies. I’m really excited to see the partner-ship keep building. We’re just gonna go out there every time and take it to the opponents.”
Singles play was more stiff as ev-ery court but Kuhlman’s went to tie-breaker sets. Kuhlman dominated her match against Mina Markovic 6-0, 6-2 as Brooke Austin defeated Nina Na-gode 7-6, 6-1 and Kourtney Keegan beat Grib 7-5, 6-1 to give the Gators the win. 
Although Woolcock didn’t ﬁ  nish 
her match with FIU’s Andrea Laza-ro, she feels this weekend was good preparation before the team travels to California next weekend. 
“This weekend was great just to 
get back into the routine of playing matches, going through recovery af-ter your matches and making sure we can do whatever we can to prepare,” Woolcock said. “I think we deﬁ  nitely gained some conﬁ  dence.”
The team will now shift its focus 
to next weekend as it prepares to take on No. 18 Southern California and No. 3 Pepperdine on Friday and 
Saturday. 
“I think California will be even 
stiffer competition than we saw this 
weekend, so I think we’ll just build on what we all did and dig deep every single point,” Neel said.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
 Top-ranked women’s tennis dominates in ITA Kick-Oﬀ  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
should clear up your questions. 
Reason No. 2: Falcons head 
coach Dan Quinn used to run the 
Gators’ defense. 
Quinn was UF’s defensive 
coordinator in 2011 and 2012 before leaving to win a Super Bowl as the Seattle Seahawks’ DC in 2013. 
“My wife Stacey and I loved 
our time in Gainesville,” Quinn said in a release when he left UF. “We look forward to keeping track of the Gators in the future.”
Thanks, Dan. Florida fans will 
be keeping track of you, too. 
Reason No. 3: The Patriots are 
evil. 
There are a lot of angles to 
tackle this from, so I’m going to make a comparison that ought to resonate with Gators fans. 
Florida fans like rooting for the 
underdog, but even more fun is rooting against the favorite. 
No one likes the football team 
with the menacing, Frank Under-wood-esque football coach. The one who never smiles and who strikes fear into players and re-porters with a glance. Even worse is that that coach is actually most effective, so he constantly has the best players lining up like suitors to play for him. Even worse still is that since that team constantly wins championship after champi-onship, its fans are insufferably 
arrogant. I’m talking, of course, 
about the Alabama Crimson Tide, or am I talking about the Patri-
ots? Because both of these teams 
should sound alarm bells for foot-
ball fans who are tired of the top of the pile punching down. 
Reason No. 4: If there’s one 
thing Florida fans can agree on, 
it’s that they don’t want Florida 
State to succeed. Nothing lifts up one group like putting down an-other.
But while tribalism outside of 
sports can be crude, crass and cruel, you’re encouraged to ex-press your ugliest instincts and insults on the gridiron. 
So don’t hold back.The Patriots have one former 
Seminole and no former Gators 
on their roster. 
And after what Neal, Poole and 
Quinn have given to UF, Florida 
fans should want the trio to lift the Lombardi. 
Matt Brannon is the assistant 
sports editor at the Alligator. His column appears on Mondays. Con-tact him at mbrannon@alligator.
org, and follow him on Twitter @
MattB_727. 
COLUMN,  from pg. 13Reason No. 3: The Patriots are evil
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer 
The Florida track and ﬁ  eld team 
notched several victories at the 
Razorback Invitational over the weekend.
Led by junior KeAndre Bates with 
two wins — one each in the men’s long jump and triple jump ﬁ  nals — the Gators ended the meet with a to-tal of 72 points by the men and 46 by 
the women to secure third- and sixth-
place ﬁ  nishes, respectively. 
Bates secured his ﬁ  rst victory of 
the weekend on Day 1 by posting a jump of 7.84 meters in the men's long jump, which improved his third-ranked Division I mark by two centi-meters. 
He also tied his personal record in 
the triple jump by jumping 16.42 me-ters on his fourth attempt on Day 2, 
but on his ﬁ  fth attempt, Bates jumped 
16.66 meters, a new personal record, and secured a second victory. Bates is now tied with Arkansas’ Clive Pul-len for the Division I lead. 
His teammates carried on the 
momentum. 
In the women’s triple jump, soph-
omore Yanis David’s third-ranked Di-
vision I mark of 13.51 meters helped 
gain another win for Florida and locked down her second triple jump win of the season. 
Florida sophomore sprinter Shar-
rika Barnett followed up her win in 
the women’s 400 meters at the Hokie 
Invitational on Jan. 20 with the same result in the women’s 400-meter invi-tational on Day 2 in Fayetteville. 
Barnett’s time of 52.07 — the fast-
est 400-meter time of her indoor and outdoor track career — is currently the No. 3-ranked time in Division I and places ﬁ  fth in UF’s all-time in-
door top 10. 
The Gators’ ﬁ  fth victory came in 
the men’s 800-meter invitational. Se-
nior Andres Arroyo pulled away from the pack around the 400-meter mark of the race. After that, it was the 2016 
Puerto Rican Olympic semiﬁ  nalist’s 
race to win. Arroyo ﬁ  nished with a time of 
1:47.25, good for the No. 4 time in Division I and only 1.05 seconds off his own school record. 
Despite all the No. 1 ﬁ  nishes, 
Florida’s success could also be found further down the podium. 
Sophomore sprinter Kunle Fasasi 
had a runner-up ﬁ  nish in the men’s 400-meter invitational on Day 2. Fasasi’s time, 46.02, ranks No. 2 in Division I. He also ran the third-fast-est split of any of the 28 4x400 relay runners. 
In distance running, senior Taylor 
Tubbs and redshirt freshman Jack 
Guyton placed third and seventh, re-
spectively, in the women’s and men’s 3,000-meter invitational. Tubbs’ time ranks in the top 15 in Division I. 
After seeing the success of his 
team over the weekend, Florida coach Mike Holloway said it has tak-en his message of improving every day seriously. 
“When you stop and think about 
where we were two weeks ago, and the thoughts some people had — even some people in our camp — that we weren’t very good, I guarantee you those thoughts have changed,” Holloway said in a release. “As a coaching staff, we just asked them to trust us.” 
Holloway said the team still has 
a lot of work to do before its meet at Vanderbilt on Feb. 24-25 for the SEC Indoor Championships. Holloway said his team is still not executing well in the short sprints and hurdles, something similar to what he said after the Hokie Invitational.
“The workouts are going well. It 
just isn’t showing up in the meets,” he said. “That’s on me. I coach those areas, so I have to get that ﬁ  gured out. Other than that, things are rolling along really well.”
Up next for the Gators, the team’s 
throwers will travel to Blacksburg, Virginia, for the Virginia Tech “Doc Hale” Elite Meet on Feb. 4. 
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.org UF track  wins ﬁ  ve times 
at Razorback Invitational
shows a great deal of leadership and maturity.”
UF set the tone early on against Vanderbilt with 
a strong ﬁ  rst quarter, holding its opponent to 23.1 
percent shooting in the frame to take a 19-8 lead.
The Gators then turned it on offensively in the 
second-half, scoring 57 points in the ﬁ  nal 20 minutes 
of action to clinch their second SEC victory of 2017.Following the win, Butler was pleased with her 
team’s scoring effort but was even more proud of her team’s performance on the glass.
“I’m thrilled that we scored 93 points, but our 
ability in certain spots to grab big rebounds … it’s a team accomplishment.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org WOMEN'S BASEKTBALL,  from pg. 13Florida scored 57 second-half pointsThe Associated Press
Atlanta's Keanu Neal defends Green Bay receiver Randall Cobb 
during the NFC Championship Game on Jan. 22 in Atlanta.16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2017
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker (top right) embraces teammate Alicia Boren after Baker scored a perfect 10 on her floor 
routine, the final event of Florida’s win over Auburn on Friday. The 10 was UF’s first of the 2017 season and the second of Baker’s floor exercise career. 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Florida swimming coach Gregg Troy (second from right) and others celebrate during the team’s meet against T ennessee over the weekend. For a full recap of the meet, visit alligator.org/sports.Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Alfredo Perez prepares to hit a ball during Florida’s match against UNC-Wilmington on Saturday. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Grace McLaughlin performs her beam routine during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Friday. She finished in fifth on the beam with a score of 9.825. 
WEEKEND IN PHOTOS
Six UF teams — gymnastics, men’s basketball, women’s basketball, men’s tennis, women’s tennis and men’s swimming and diving — won competitions over the weekend. Below, we highlight some of the best visual moments from those competitions. 