We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 138 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
Tebow oﬀ   to tough start in minors
The former UF quarterback has hit two homers 
but is hitting a .200, pg. 14
Local nonproﬁ  t pledges $1 million to Shands
UF researchers will use the money to ﬁ  ght children’s cancer, pg. 5
RTS to alter, reduce routes over Summer
All routes will stop between May 1 and May 8, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A grand jury indicted a local 
woman Monday for ﬁ  rst-degree  premeditated murder after police say she shot her ex-boyfriend a day before Valentine’s Day this year.
The indictment comes nearly 
two months after police arrested Katherine Jean Tonner, 24, in con-
nection with the death of her ex-
boyfriend, 26-year-old Jose Ricardo 
Ortiz III. Ortiz was found dead in Tonner’s room at The Ridge at Gainesville with at least one bullet 
wound in his head, according to Al-
ligator archives. 
On Monday, a grand jury evalu-
ated evidence presented by the state attorney and indicted Tonner on a 
charge of ﬁ  rst-degree premeditated 
murder. 
One of Tonner’s roommates dis-
covered Ortiz’s body after he heard 
three loud bangs from Tonner’s 
room and then a ﬁ  re alarm at about 
noon, according to an arrest report. 
He found Ortiz’s body facedown near Tonner’s bed and expended shell casings nearby.
The roommate 
saw Tonner drive away before Ton-
ner called 911 
from her parent’s home. She told 
dispatch she had 
shot a man whom she loved after 
he had asked her for money, ac-
cording to the report. She said she 
was suicidal.She told a responding Alachua 
County Sheriff’s deputy she had 
placed the gun in a kitchen drawer.
“I shot him in the head,” she told 
the deputy, per the report. “I never 
meant to hurt anyone.”
After the initial investigation, 
Gainesville Police submitted an 
amended arrest report, including 
the discovery of a suicide note in 
Tonner’s room. Police said Tonner 
professed her love for Ortiz in the  Grand jury indicts woman for murder in Ridge case
Police found a suicide note in her room
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
TACO ‘BOUT MENTAL HEALTH
Lucas Gusman, a 19-year-old UF materials science and engineering freshman, takes a selﬁ  e with Juan Fernandez, a 20-year-old UF statistics and economics sophomore, before receiving a free T aco Bell taco on Tuesday. Fernandez, a student ambassador for the Counseling & Wellness Center’s Awareness Wellness Ambassadors Reaching Everyone, or AWARE, group, dressed in a taco costume to promote T aco ‘Bout It Tuesday, an event to normalize talking about mental health and seeking help.
THE OSPREYS ABOVE UF’S 
BASEBALL FIELD LOST THEIR 
EGGS DUE TO WEATHER. 
By Lauren Smith
Alligator Contributing Writer 
While ospreys don’t show signs of mourn-
ing, Carolyn Fulwood was concerned when she saw egg casings lying underneath a lamp-post last week. The eggs belonged to a pair of ospreys 
who made their nest atop the lamppost at UF’s McKethan Stadium.
“I was just wondering how they felt,” said 
Fulwood, an 18-year-old UF elementary edu-cation freshman, referring to the eggs’ par-ents. “I bet losing their babies is terrible.”
Rain damage from turbulent storms caused 
the eggs to fall out of a hole in their nest last week above the stadium, said UF wildlife ecology and conservation professor Mark Hostetler. The two unnamed ospreys who conceived the eggs have been livestreamed on the wildlife ecology and conservation de-partment’s website since January, according to Alligator archives. 
Hostetler said the eggs were due to hatch 
this week. He said their fall was an unfortu-nate occurrence, but something that happens in nature. 
“It’s a risk you take working with wild os-
preys,” he said. The livestream viewers ﬁ  rst contacted 
Hostetler about the missing egg April 4, he said. The second egg was reported missing the next day. 
Hostetler said when he went to investigate 
the nest in person, he could see light shin-ing through it. Egg casings were lying in frag-ments on the ground. 
The livestream of the birds, which laid 
the eggs during the ﬁ  rst week of March, cost 
 Livestream captures sad turn in saga of UF’s ospreysIT WILL HAVE OUTLETS 
ON ALMOST EVERY PIECE 
OF FURNITURE.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After ﬁ  ve years of lobbying, 
planning and constructing, a new 24/7 study center at UF is sched-uled to open next week.
The opening ceremony for 
Newell Hall will be Monday at 11 a.m., said Blake Murphy, chair of the Newell Hall Student Advisory Board. The study center will be equipped with about 400 indoor seating options, a 24/7 Au Bon Pain cafe-style restaurant and out-lets on almost every piece of fur-niture, Murphy said. About 150 student jobs will be created for the $16.6 million building, according to Alligator archives.
“Every detail and every fea-
ture of the building was intro-duced with students in mind,” the 23-year-old said. 
The building was designed with 
four themes: focus, rejuvenate, interact and collaborate, Murphy 
said. Each theme is shown through 
features like large meeting tables, reclining chairs, individual study pods and outside concrete ping-
pong tables. 
“You’re supposed to be able to 
talk — it’s not a ‘sh’ space,” he 
said. 
The idea for the renovated 
study space came from student 
responses to a Student Experience 
in the Research University survey in 2012, Murphy said. The No. 1 response was not enough study 
spaces on campus. 
Student Government began 
lobbying the Florida Legislature in 
that same year to fund the project. 
After facing multiple rejections, 
Florida Gov. Rick Scott approved New 24/7 UF study 
center  set to openSEE INDICTMENT,  PAGE 4
SEE NEWELL,  PAGE 8
SEE EGGS,  PAGE 4T onner
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  84° LOW  55°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
How we created a World-
Champion Robot (MIL/CIMAR: 
UF Robotics)See and hear about NaviGator, UF’s latest world-champion ro-
bot boat. The organization will 
also share the histories of the two foremost robotics labs on cam-pus, MIL and CIMAR. This semi-nar will also serve as a recruiting event for robot submarine and boat teams for the Summer and Fall semesters. If you are inter-ested in being a part of the orga-
nization’s future world-champion 
teams, please attend. The event will take place today at 5:10 p.m. in UF’s NEB 100. It is free and open to the public. Children are welcome. Send questions to ems@ufl.edu.
UF Campus Earth Day
Join the UF Campus Earth Day today, featuring the inaugu-ral Sustainability Showcase with keynote speaker Philippe Cousteau, grandson of famous explorer Jacques Cousteau. The Sustainability Showcase will be 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Reitz Union Outdoor Tabling Area. Connect with campus and com-munity organizations related to 
sustainability and enjoy “The 
Story of Stuff” film series on dis-play. Through stories and video, Cousteau will give insight to his family legacy of innovation and its influence on his efforts to in-spire action for a more sustain-able planet. Taking place at the Emerson Alumni Hall, doors will 
open at 4:30 p.m. and the key-
note will begin at 5 p.m. Parking is available at the O’Connell Center parking lot after 4:30 p.m., and the lawn north of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. This event is free and open to the public. For more information, visit sustainable.ufl.edu/events.
The Art of Relaxation by RUB 
EntertainmentFeeling stressed before exams, graduation or just need a break from the every day? Participants will be creating do-it-yourself sugar scrubs, sand art candles and squishy Orbeez stress relief balls in the Reitz Union, Room G330, on Thursday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. You will be able to com-plete all three while enjoying a soothing environment complete 
with candles, spa music, mandala 
adult coloring books and more. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 138
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
note.
On a calendar on the wall outside her 
room, police found hearts and the word 
“death” written in all capital letters under 
Feb. 14, according to the report.
Prior to the shooting, Tonner reached out 
to Ortiz’s mother to have him come back for 
things left in Tonner’s apartment, police said. 
She insisted Ortiz be the one to come pick 
up the items, and, the day of the shooting, 
left work to go meet him at her apartment, 
according to the report.
During the crime scene investigation, po-
lice determined that Tonner shot the gun at 
least ﬁ  ve times while standing between the door and Ortiz. 
Ortiz was shot four times, including twice 
after he had fallen to the ground, according to the investigation.
UF law professor Kenneth Nunn, the as-
sistant director of the Criminal Justice Cen-ter, said the indictment means the grand jury found probable cause to press formal charg-es. He said it could take months for a trial but if the state attorney makes it a capital of-fense, Tonner’s maximum sentence could be the death penalty. 
As of press time, Tonner remains in cus-
tody at Alachua County Jail.
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org INDICTMENT,  from pg. 1Tonner remains in county jailBy Paige Fry 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President Su-
san Webster gave her last report 
to the Student Senate on Tuesday, 
where she announced the ofﬁ  cial 
start of UF’s Uber discounts. 
Webster, whose term ends 
April 18, said the student discount, 
organized by Student Government 
and funded by UF student trans-
portation fees, will start today at 
9 p.m.
The 50 percent discount covers rides on campus and around Ar-cher Road, 13th Street, 34th Street, University Avenue and Southwest 
Second Avenue, according to Alli-
gator archives. The program cost about $46,000. Students will need a code for the discount, which can 
be found on the student self-ser-
vice page. 
Webster advertised the discount 
in a video posted to SG’s Facebook page, in which the instrumental to 
the rap song “Uber Everywhere” 
served as background music.
Discounted rides will run Wednesday through Sunday from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m., Webster said.
During the meeting, Senate also 
approved a new committee seat and permanent Senate seat.
Senate Pro-tempore Trevor 
Schaettle said ﬁ  ve people applied 
for the open ﬁ  ne arts permanent re-
placement seat, for which senators unanimously approved Stephanie Watson. Five people also applied for the open allocations committee 
seat, which went to Senator Ryan 
Emery (Impact, District B). 
“It was hard ﬁ  nding people to be here over the Summer,” Schaet-tle said. “I’m very happy with both of the seats.”
Webster, whose term ends a 
day before incoming Student Body President Smith Meyers takes of-ﬁ  ce, also said Newell Hall, a 24/7 
renovated study center, will open 
Monday at 11 a.m. 
“That was a building that was 
brought to you for students, by students,” she said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org   Student Body president announces start of Uber discount
about $10,000 to install and $250 a month 
to maintain, according to Alligator archives. More than 251,000 people have tuned into the video so far. 
When asked if the ospreys had a person-
ality, Hostetler laughed.
“We observe other animals, and we at-
tach personalities to them,” he said. 
Three other osprey nests are above the 
baseball ﬁ  eld, located at third base, left ﬁ  eld 
and right ﬁ  eld.
He said if a camera was pointed at all 
three nests, maybe he could determine the 
personalities of the birds. 
But not all hope is lost for the ospreys to become parents. 
Since the eggs are gone, the ospreys’ hor-
mones will change, causing them to want to mate again, Hostetler said. 
When mating, the male osprey will de-
liver a ﬁ  sh to the female in order to woo her, he said. If the birds conceive again, they will need to stay and rebuild the nest, which involves patching the hole and ﬁ  xing the edges. 
Hostetler said new eggs could be laid in 
the next two or three weeks. 
Fulwood said she’ll be waiting to watch 
more of the ospreys’ adventures. 
“It’s been awesome watching the os-
preys’ journey,” she said. “I hope UF intro-duces more things like this.”EGGS,  from pg. 1The ospreys may mate againWHAT PASSED
DURING SENATE:
• 2017 to 2018 Student Government funded academics budget of $435,752
• 2017 to 2018 Student Government funded organizational budget of $1,043,202 
• 100 Code Revisions
• 200 Code Revisions WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
TED SPIKER HAS 
TAUGHT AT UF SINCE 
2001.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After serving as an editor for 
Men’s Health magazine and co-
authoring a best-selling book 
with television’s Dr. Mehmet Oz, 
Ted Spiker can now add “UF’s top teacher” to his resume.
Spiker, the journalism depart-
ment chair in the UF College of Journalism, was named UF’s 2016-2017 Teacher of the Year on Thursday.
Spiker said the award was an 
honor, considering all the qual-ity professors at UF. He said one of his favorite parts of teaching is watching students move into 
careers. “You al-
ways know 
you’re just a small piece in their entire 
life, but you 
hope you’ve 
made some kind of an im-
pact,” he said.
He’s reminded of the Fall of 
1987, and of Dennis Jackson, his then-journalism professor at the University of Delaware. Jack-son served as an inspiration for 
Spiker, the catalyst of his future 
career as a writer and professor.
When Turner Street, a 
20-year-old UF journalism soph-
omore, learned that Spiker re-
ceived the award, all he could think to text was “Woo Hoo!” embellished with several o’s and exclamation points.Street first met Spiker while in 
high school. He was visiting cam-pus and emailed Spiker to meet up. Spiker made time to sit down with Street, which influenced his 
decision to enroll at UF.  
“The fact he gave me time to 
sit down and chat about what ex-
perience I could have at the Uni-
versity of Florida definitely was a 
huge part of my decision to come here,” Street said.
Street has taken 12 credit 
hours with Spiker and partici-
pated in an independent study 
to help with his research and classes.
“He’s just a phenomenal pro-
fessor, and he’s had a big impact on me, and I feel very honored to have had him,” Street said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgJournalism department chair 
named UF professor of the year
Spiker
By Isabella Arjomand 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Starting May 1, bus routes across 
the UF campus and Gainesville will 
be reduced and changed due to fund-ing and construction.
While all campus bus routes will 
stop between May 1 and May 8 due to the semester break, 16 routes will 
not run until the Fall semester begins 
as a result of reduced Summer fund-
ing, Chip Skinner, a spokesperson for 
Regional Transit System, wrote in an 
email. The routes affected are Later 
Gator D and F, routes 19, 27, 28, 29, 
36, 37, 39, 40, 62, 76 and routes 77, 
118, 121 and 126 on the weekends.
“We always have reduced ser-
vice during the semester and holiday breaks,” Skinner wrote, citing a drop 
from 853,473 passenger trips in April 
2016 to 445,419 trips in May 2016. 
“Historically ridership is low and 
our funding partners, UF and (Santa 
Fe College), reduce funding due to decreased ridership numbers,” he 
said.No new stops will be added to re-
place the routes taken away.
All other Later Gator services will 
stop May 1 and resume June 26 for 
UF’s Summer B term.
Due to construction on Gale Le-
merand Drive and Stadium Road, routes in between the two roads — 
including buses that stop at the Hub 
— will be altered for the Summer until construction has finished, Skin-ner wrote. Routes 9, 34, 38, 119, 120, 
122, 125, 126 and 128 will instead service the Reitz Union. 
“If the road is closed due to con-
struction, then we cannot serve the 
area,” Skinner wrote.
Sam Covell, a UF aerospace engi-
neering sophomore, said he will still 
have the means to get to class, but 
that the bus reductions are still an an-
noyance. 
“I’ll be forced to either bike to 
class or buy a campus parking pass, meaning I’ll never show up to class 
dry over Summer or I’ll have an add-ed expense to an already-dwindling 
college budget,” the 20-year-old said.RTS to reduce, change 
bus routes for Summer
MONEY WILL FUND 
CHILDREN’S CANCER 
CLINICAL TRIALS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Over the next five years, UF 
researchers will receive $1 mil-
lion to fight children’s cancer. 
Stop Children’s Cancer, a 
Gainesville-based nonprofit, pledged $1 million Tuesday to fund UF Health Shands Hos-
pital’s pediatric cancer clini-
cal trials, said Chris Conner, the president of the organiza-tion. Representatives from both groups signed an agreement at 
the hospital Tuesday morning.
The nonprofit, which fund-
raises through golf tournaments, 
auctions and holiday events, will donate the money over five years in $200,000 installments, 
Conner said. Out of each install-
ment, $150,000 will be used for general pediatric cancer clinical trials. The other $50,000 will fund a trial for osteosarcoma 
and Ewing’s sarcoma, which are 
both bone tumors.
Conner said they’re funding 
the bone tumor trials because researchers said they’re close to a breakthrough.
“Our board has a very simple 
mission and that’s to stop chil-
dren’s cancer,” Conner said. 
The nonprofit has previous-
ly pledged money to Shands. 
Seven years ago, they pledged $1.05 million, of which the final 
installment will be completed 
this year.
Ed Jimenez, Shands CEO, 
said the past and current pledg-
es will be put to good use at the 
hospital.
“I can’t tell you the num-
ber of people it’s benefited,” Jimenez said. “It’s in the mul-
titudes.”
Tuesday’s pledge will fund 
clinical trials focusing on immu-
notherapy methods, said Wil-
liam Slayton, chief of pediatric 
hematology and oncology at Shands. Some involve training cells to attack tumorous cells, while others combine two types 
of cells, creating a “supercell” to 
use as a weapon against malig-nant ones.
Conner said he’s happy with 
the work UF researchers have done.
“We’ll never be there when 
the light goes on, but we’ll know our fingerprints were on 
this whole quest for the cure,” 
Conner said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgNonprofit pledges $1 
million to UF Shands
“Our board has a very 
simple mission and that’s 
to stop children’s cancer.”
Chris Conner
Stop Children’s CancerCAMPUS
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
STEEL(ING) THE SHOW 
From left: Ryan Crowe, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, and Yuchen Wang, a 20-year-old UF 
music and finance junior, play steel drums during a performance near Century T ower on Tuesday.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
You can’t heal your broken ego from the inside
I ended last week’s column with an image 
of a man limping through life with a bro-ken leg. I made the comment that this im-
age captures the problem with our cultural 
dictum: “Believe in yourself.” The mean-
ing behind my comment is twofold. First, people generally suffer from self-doubt, a cer-
tain awareness that all is not well within one’s 
self, or from an inability to feel afﬁ  rmed, con-ﬁ  dent and whole. Second, the solution to this problem cannot be believing in one’s self be-cause the problem lies primarily within the self. Thus, 
the image of a man who thinks he can mend his leg by 
walking on it.
I imagine that most rational people would tell our 
friend with the broken leg to stop walking because his 
leg was in fact broken and he needed treatment. This 
would appear to be a sane and logical response. But why do we treat the ego differently? Yes, the ego is not a body part which can snap like a bone or tear like a muscle, but I argue that we can indeed say that our egos 
are broken and need serious help.
When do we notice our thumb, stomach or nose? Ev-
ery day? Every moment? Never? I would argue we notice 
them when they draw attention to them via pain, indi-
gestion or an itch. In other words, we take notice of our 
body parts when they malfunction. If they are operating properly, we give them no attention. Our bodies work properly when all of the parts of our organism work in unison together as we move and act throughout the day. 
They leave us free to not be constantly focused on their 
operation and functioning. A car breaks down when one of its parts — tires, engine, transmission — ceases to function. I see our bodies in a similar light.
If it is true that we notice our bodies when they are 
malfunctioning, then it is plain that our egos are not functioning well. We are constantly aware of ourselves. The purpose of the ego, though, is similar to the thumb or stomach — it should 
make a person whole, uniﬁ  ed and free him 
from giving himself or herself incessant atten-tion. Yet, we are always conscious of how we are being treated, how we look, how we mea-
sure up to others, what we lack in our lives, 
how miserable or how good we are, what im-pression we are making, who we are not and who we want to be, how empty we are and 
how we feel right now. It seems as if the ego has dis-
lodged itself from its intended position in the person 
and wanders about in search for something that will heal it and give it attention. 
Thus, I think we can conclude that the ego is, for 
some strange reason, not functioning the way it ought to be.
To return to our friend with the broken leg: We have 
said that he cannot heal himself by limping. Why do we think we can heal our egos from the inside? Broken 
legs need external treatment. Yet, our culture posits that 
believing in yourself — the ego’s attempt at self-help — is rational. We move about in our lives with wounded, desperate and restless egos that bring attention to their 
misery in almost every area of life, just as our friend 
drags his broken leg wherever he goes. If our friend needs a doctor, how can we say that we do not? For we suffer from an even more severe injury that plagues us even when our bodies are completely healthy: a dissat-
isﬁ  ed and wandering ego.
The question is not whether we need existential heal-
ing, but what or who will mend our broken sense of 
self?
Scott Stinson is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.Sean Spicer needs 
a history lesson
On the second day of Passover, the most practiced Jew-
ish holiday in the U.S., White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer compared the Syrian government’s use of a chemical weapon to attack its own people to the Ho-locaust, arguing that Adolf Hitler “didn’t even sink to 
using chemical weapons” on his people.
Only he did.Let the record show that Hitler orchestrated the mass slaugh-
ter of millions of Jews, blacks, members of the LGBTQ+ com-munity and Roma, a nomadic ethnic group, by forcing them into concentration camps, or as Spicer referred to them, “Holocaust centers.” In gas chambers, Nazi ofﬁ  cers pumped in poisonous gas to kill those forced inside.
Spicer was essentially stating that as bad as Hitler was, he was 
never as bad as Syrian President Bashar Assad, whose chemical attack killed about 87 people last month. The statement left one of Spicer’s aides with his mouth agape, and Spicer quickly released a statement following the press conference trying to clarify.
“In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the 
Holocaust,” Spicer said in the statement. “I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weap-ons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is rep-rehensible and inexcusable.” 
This is an administration that has already claimed to give “al-
ternative facts” in order to cover up some of their blunders in the present. It looks like they’ve moved beyond current events and started to gloss over tragic events in history. Spicer’s reference to concentration camps as “Holocaust centers” minimizes the actual horror of the mass imprisonment and institutionalized murder of millions of people. This isn’t something he could have simply blundered on and we could forgive him for; being a political ﬁ  g-ure requires an understanding of history, events both great and 
terrible, concerning your country and the world. At the very least, 
one needs to recognize that the Holocaust wasn’t full of “centers” and did, in fact, use chemical weapons to commit mass murder.
And why do we always use Hitler as a sliding measure of 
what’s “evil?” Murder of innocent civilians is wrong, regardless of what period in time it happened, who the civilians were and what the means were. The actions of Assad and Hitler don’t need to be compared; they were both horrible, inhumane actions. Min-imizing the actions of one should not be done to make the other 
seem worse. Murder is wrong. Murder of innocents is wrong. 
Why are we ﬁ  xated on ranking it? 
Following the gaffe, the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect 
called for President Donald Trump to ﬁ  re Spicer. In a statement posted to the center’s Facebook page, Steven Goldstein, the cen-ter’s executive director, said Spicer engaged in “Holocaust denial, the most offensive form of fake news imaginable, by denying Hitler gassed millions of Jews to death.”
The post ends with a hashtag: #NeverAgain.
But the fact that this was said at all is appalling. On Monday 
and Tuesday night, Jews around the country and world gathered 
for Passover seders, retelling the story of how the Jews ﬂ  ed slav-ery by the Egyptians in search of freedom from persecution. It’s a story echoed in many Jewish holidays, and it’s a story that will likely ring truer over the next six days as Jews around the world eat matzo in memory of when they didn’t even have the luxury of waiting for bread to rise. 
And while we at the Alligator ﬁ  nd these comments horriﬁ  c, 
the only cure for ignorance is education. We ask you, dear reader, to ﬁ  ght against ignorance by broadening your horizons. Attend a Passover seder. Go to Easter services. Seek to learn what you don’t know. As we doubt Spicer will be ﬁ  red for his remarks, we can only hope he does the same.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
There’s an ailment afﬂ  icting young people 
today. It’s not a disease or a behavioral epidemic, but an idea. It is an idea that affects our entire approach to intimacy. It stems from our phobia of discomfort, 
of appearing foolish or being declined. It is the idea that there exists such a thing as a “right moment.” Allow me to elaborate.
This begins from a familiar place. Anyone 
who has ever been declined when asking for a date has had the same thoughts, “What if I had asked differently?” or “What if this was the wrong time?” It’s normal. We don’t want to believe that another person is not interested, 
so we deﬂ  ect blame to the circumstances. In a 
way it can be healthy, shielding us from a blow to our self-esteem and emboldening us to try again.
As we grow older, we ﬁ  nd support for this 
deﬂ  ection in popular media. Films and TV fea-ture partners simply happening upon relation-ships. Two people standing in the rain lock eyes and know they were meant for each other and without a word share a passionate kiss. The heroes narrowly escape danger and 
fall to the nearest bed for some pas-
sionate “thank-god-we’re-still-alive” sex. Circumstances align, and ev-erybody involved knows this is the moment.
While situations this dramatic are 
clearly an exaggeration, we still come away with a troubling notion: that romantic moments must “arise naturally.” It is telling that campus 
lectures about consent are met with cries that 
asking ﬁ  rst “spoils the mood.” We are so at-tached to the notion that romance only hap-pens in a narrow, perfect moment that we are willing to risk violating personal boundaries.
This idea is ampliﬁ  ed by the notion of scar-
city. Recent polls by Marist and Gallup show that the majority of Americans be-lieve in soulmates and love at ﬁ  rst sight. This, in turn, makes us fear not only losing a chance at love, but losing the only person who could 
ever love us. Media inﬂ  uences, as 
well as age-old cultural and religious beliefs, reinforce the idea that the right partner is “one-in-a-million.” I implore you to read works by any professional who studies sex and 
relationships. You’ll note that not one of them entertains the notion of such extreme scarcity.
So, the “right moment” idea may be wrong, 
but is it necessarily harmful? If we were content to wait for our moment, no, but if we did that everyone would be single forever. Instead, we nudge circumstances to create our own “right moment,” and this creates problems. If we teach that it is acceptable to pursue someone who will only date or sleep with you in a nar-row set of circumstances, we incentivize taking measures to create that moment. These mea-sures can include stalking or violating personal space. Often they include excessive drinking and at the extreme end, even rape. If asking for 
consent would ruin the moment, we shouldn’t 
be surprised to see this behavior.
The fact of the matter is there will rarely be a 
“right moment.” If the answer will be “no” un-til one speciﬁ  c set of circumstances, it will like-ly be “no” again after, and you’ll ﬁ  nd yourself more hurt and disappointed than you would be simply facing rejection. Instead, we can learn to be straightforward about our intentions. If 
we’re interested in someone, we can say so. If 
we want something, we can ask respectfully. Sometimes you’ll be turned down, and some-times you won’t. If that’s something you can’t handle, you shouldn’t be dating anyway.
David Billig is a UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.   Popular notions of romance may be encouraging non-consensual sexColumn
The human race is intrinsically a self-ish bunch. When we’re born, we are strictly self-serving. We exist only to keep ourselves alive and to advance ourselves to the point where we can 
do this without help. We communicate our needs by crying, screaming or doing what-ever it takes to get our parents’ attention, and once this is complete, we head on back to whatever we were doing before we decided we needed something.
Now, of course, I don’t blame babies. I 
love babies. They’re great. They have a lot of needs, though, and haven’t yet gained the 
conscious to consider other people. However, 
once we have passed the age of complete, undeniable dependence on other people, we learn how to think about others, too.
Or, should I say, ideally we learn to think 
about others. It is immensely important to think about yourself. You are your vessel for navigating the world. It seems obvious, but you must remember to take care of yourself and make sure you have what you need to succeed. However, without the people who make you happy and who have helped shape you, there is no you either. 
We must remember what we as 
individuals want and how we feel are not the only things that mat-ter. You are one of seven billion. That one is signiﬁ  cant, but one all the same. As we grow older, we adopt different roles in the lives of others. We begin as son or daughter and maybe sibling. Soon, we become student, friend, signiﬁ  cant 
other, maybe even mentor or parent. I always 
found it interesting that we so often describe ourselves by our relations to other people. Think about a headstone carving. So many of them list the roles a person played in their loved ones’ lives. So readers, I ask you, why are we so selﬁ  sh sometimes?
I’m not saying you should drop everything 
whenever someone asks. As I said, you are important, too. But we need to re-member that sometimes, we can’t all help ourselves. Sometimes, other people need us, and they may need us more than we need 
of ourselves at that moment. We 
all have gifts and talents, and if we only use these to help ourselves, we are wasting them. 
We cannot get where we want 
to be without some help. It is 
wrong to accept help without at least trying to provide it, and it is also wrong to only help when it also helps you or when it is conve-
nient. The people you care about will have 
problems and need you at times that may not work best for you, but here’s the thing: When your people need you, it’s no longer about you. 
I’ve seen a lot of selﬁ  sh behavior, but I’ve 
also seen quite a bit of selﬂ  ess behavior. I know people who moved thousands of miles from their loved ones to allow their partners to pursue their dreams. I know people who abandoned important commitments because someone they loved needed them. I know mothers and fathers who gave up everything and put their lives on hold because to them, 
being there for their children was more im-
portant than anything else. People take bul-lets for each other — give their lives solely to save one another.
Selﬂ  essness is just that: the giving of 
yourself without regard for yourself. You are where you are in life thanks to the selﬂ  ess-ness of someone. It can be someone different for everyone, but someone gave of himself or 
herself at some point to help you. Pay it back, 
and pay it forward.
Remember that as you look back on your 
life, you very likely won’t exclusively think about everything you did on your own. Keep your people close.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays. 
 We get by with help from our friends: It’s important to be selﬂ  ess sometimesColumn
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Two people pass by the front of Newell Hall on Tuesday, about a week before the 
24/7 study center is set to open. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Construction workers kneel outside Newell Hall. Blake Murphy, chair of the Newell Hall Student Advisory Board said he hopes the hall becomes integrated into student life.
$10 million for the project in June 2014, and former UF President Bernie Machen put $5 million more toward it. 
Once construction began in late 
2015, UF allocated another $1.6 million to the project, Murphy said. Doors on all sides of the four-
story building will be open during the day, and at night, students can use their Gator 1 cards to enter through the main entrance facing Stadium Road. 
The center will include two 
sets of stairs similar to the Reitz Union’s social steps, vending ma-chines on the top two ﬂ  oors and a bathroom on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor with a chair lift, meant for those with disabilities. 
Students will be allowed to eat 
and drink throughout the building.
Newell Hall is the third-oldest 
building on campus and is consid-ered a historical site, Murphy said. Renovations to the outside of the building are true to the original 1910 architecture. 
The inside will reﬂ  ect a more modern design, resembling a Google ofﬁ  ce, Murphy said. All the seats were chosen by a stu-dent committee, and the grass sur-rounding the building was tested for sitting.
Palm trees were planted with 
hammock lengths in mind, and the hall will have outdoor seating with nearby outlets and surround-ing lights. Kayla Gaines, a UF English and 
history sophomore, said while she normally studies at Library West, she’s ready for Newell Hall to open before her ﬁ  nals.
“I like how the old blends with 
the new,” the 19-year-old said. “I’m deﬁ  nitely going to go.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  
NEWELL,  from pg. 1Palm trees were planted outside with hammock lengths in mindWEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Newell Hall was designed with four themes: focus, rejuvenate, interact and collaborate.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The building will come equipped with recliners and outside concrete pingpong tables.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A new dining option will be found inside Newell Hall called Au Bon Pain. The bakery and cafe will feature a salad and soup bar in addition to being a healthier alterna-
tive to other options found on campus.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-12-17-10-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands & Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    4-18-17-7-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
1. METALS: What alloy is created 
by mixing copper and zinc?
2. MATH: What is an obelus in math-
ematical formulas?
3. THEATER: What long-running 
play featured the song “Luck Be a 
Lady”?
4. ACRONYMS: What does LED 
stand for?
5. ANATOMY: What is a more com-
mon name for the hallux? 
6. GEOGRAPHY: In what country is 
Port Said located?
7. FASHION: What is a more com-
mon name for “frogs” on military-type jackets?
8. LANGUAGE: What is the name 
for the type of marriage where a wom-an has more than one husband?
9. HISTORY: How many soldiers 
were in an Imperial Roman legion?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: In 
what country did the dance called the tango develop?
Answers
1. Brass2. Division sign
3. “Guys and Dolls”
4. Light-emitting diode5. Big toe6. Egypt7. Braided fasteners8. Polyandry9. 5,00010. Argentina
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 10, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14
Bilingual paralegal for Immigration Law firm, part-time. 10 - 15 hrs per week. Will train. Must be fluent in Spanish and English. Please email resume to rjjimmigration@gmail.com.      4-13-17-4-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 They broke their
108-year World
Series drought in2016
5 Medical picture9 Gives out
14 Lustrous gem15 “Bloom County”
reporter
16 Very small
17 Dean’s list
honorees
19 Pasture sound
20 Add to the pot
21 Electronic sci-fi
antagonist
23 “!Dios __!”
24 Cannes cup25 Thiamine and
riboflavin
28 FBI operative29 Number before
vier
31 Spring bloomer32 Flip (through)34 Son of Zeus and
Hera
36 In tune37 Two-variable
marketingexperiment
40 Diving bird43 Way out yonder44 Inscribe48 After morays, say50 Mined matter52 Mexican gold
53 First novel in
Willa Cather’sGreat Plains
trilogy
55 Apartment sign
57 Go bad58 Under the
weather
59 Javier __, first
Spanish actor towin an Oscar
60 “Good __!”62 Classification
suggested by thebeginning of 17-,25-, 37- and 53-Across
65 Not always
helpful reply to“Who’s there?”
66 Like bad fried
food
67 Shed tools
68 Early fur trader69 Ties the knot70 Joint possession
wordDOWN
1 Like beachfront
property
2 Steal the
spotlight from
3 Cuban dictator
overthrown by
Castro
4 Nasty remarks5 Marvel Comics
mutants
6 __ Tin Tin7 PC key8 Super Mario
World dinosaur
9 Decorate
elaborately
10 End of a
general’s URL
11 Low-fat frozen
dessert
12 Many a new hire13 “If you will”18 Fizzled out22 __ crossroads
25 First interracial
coed college in
the South
26 Tries to win27 Canine ailment30 Chinese zodiac
animal
33 One-named
Italian malemodel35 “The Fault in Our
__”: 2014 film
38 Nickname for a
2000s tabloiditem
39 Anger40 Black Sea
republic
41 Police paperwork42 High-and-mighty
sort
45 “Just like I said”46 Climbing plant47 Disordered yet
appealing person
49 Salon application51 Dutch town
54 Nudge
56 Weed B Gon
maker
59 School restroom
sign
61 Confessional
rock genre
63 Fabrication64 Not up-to-date
By Neville Fogarty©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/12/1704/12/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 12, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 15 Services 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Executive associate athletics director leaving UF
Chip Howard, who oversaw facilities, operations and the UF baseball 
program is leaving Florida to become the chief operating ofﬁ  cer at T ailgate 
Guys, an Auburn, Alabama-based company, according to a release. Howard started working for UF's athletics department in 1989. The Florida softball team 
is hoping to ride pitchers Delanie Gourley and others to a win over No. 1 FSU. Read the story, pg. 16.By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
After four straight games of 
misery against the Gators, FSU shortstop Taylor Walls tried to avoid another loss. He did so by leading off the game with a home run to right field. It didn’t matter. 
Despite Florida State notch-
ing two runs in the first inning, 
Florida came back in the second and scored four runs of its own. The Seminoles then came back to tie the game before UF put an end to the seesaw affair. 
Led by a two-inning offensive explosion from the bottom of 
the order, the No. 16 Gators 
beat FSU 10-7  on Wednesday in 
Tallahassee to sweep the three-game season series. It marked UF’s 10th win in its last 11 games against Florida State. 
"It's a win," coach Kevin 
O'Sullivan said in a release. "It wasn't pretty on either side... but we were able to have a four-run inning and a six-run in-
ning."
Florida’s offense was led by 
nine-hole hitter Christian Hicks, 
who picked up a team-leading three hits and four RBIs. Hicks 
is known more as a defensive 
player who’s able to play any-
where along the infield, and O’Sullivan said whatever he 
produces at the plate is just a 
bonus. But right now, his .295 
average is third-best on the team. 
"Christian Hicks was out-
standing," O'Sullivan said. 
Aside from Hicks, No. 7-hit-
ter Austin Langworthy, No. 8-hitter Ryan Larson and desig-nated hitter Jonathan India were 
the other standouts on offense. 
Larson and Langworthy were 
the only Florida (22-11, 6-6 SEC) players besides Hicks to smack more than one hit (two each), 
and India slugged a bases-clear-
ing double to pick up three RBIs 
in the top of the fourth inning.
UF’s victory was largely 
thanks to that inning, which the Gators entered tied at 4-4. Be-fore FSU recorded an out, Lang-worthy singled, Larson doubled and Hicks drove them both in with a double of his own. From there, Florida’s lead was never threatened. 
"I thought we swung the bats 
good tonight against a really  Florida sweeps season series against FSU
Before you start comment-ing that I’m an entitled millennial sh-t for defend-ing participation trophies, please know I recognize 
your concern. It’s deﬁ  nitely a cliché thing for a 20-year-old to do. But with the number of slam pieces written about the privi-leged “snowﬂ  ake” generation and its sense of entitlement, I think there’s something to be said about how participation trophies can ac-tually be a good thing. 
I got thinking about participa-
tion trophies about two weeks 
ago when UF football coach Jim McElwain brought them up at his 
weekly press conference. 
“There’s a lot of kids now with 
all this participation ribbon stuff that they get for just showing up,” 
he said, “that I’m not sure they’re really learning the lessons in life 
as far as picking yourself up off 
the ground all the time.”
It’s that second part that I’m 
interested in. The part about kids not learning to pick themselves up 
and try harder when they don’t 
win. Is that really all kids learn from participation trophies? Be-
cause it certainly wasn’t that way 
in my experience. 
As a kid, I played baseball. At 
the end of every season, I’d attend an awards ceremony where ev-eryone from all teams received —
you guessed it —  participation tro-
phies. They were exactly the same 
for every player from every team. 
However, there were also four 
special awards: Most Improved, Best Offensive Player, Best 
Defensive Player and the coveted In defense of 
participation 
trophies
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
In two days, Florida will take to 
the mats and compete for one of six 
spots in the NCAA Championships 
on April 15. 
The team will be performing in 
Chaifetz Arena in St. Louis, Mis-
souri — a location two Gators are 
already familiar with.
Freshmen Amelia Hundley and 
Rachel Gowey competed there last June during the 2016 P&G 
Championship. It was their last 
elite level competition before the 
U.S. Olympic Trials.
Hundley ﬁ  nished sixth in the 
all-around, while Gowey ﬁ  nished ninth out of 24 athletes.
The two are hoping their experi-
ence and prior success in the arena will be an advantage come Friday.
“Deﬁ  nitely at each arena you go 
to, the setup is different. The light-
ing is different,” Gowey said. “But 
hopefully, when I go there it will 
feel kind of like I’ve done it before. 
It won’t be all new to me.”
Fewer than four months ago, the 
pair was kicking off their collegiate 
careers on the road at N.C. State.
Now, they are only guaranteed 
one more meet in their freshmen seasons.
“It’s been amazing. I’ve loved 
every second of it,” Hundley said. 
“I couldn’t have asked for it to go 
better. I’m really just trying to enjoy these moments because it’s crazy how fast this freshman year went.”
Hundley has been an all-around 
entry in all but one of the Gators' meets this season — the most on 
the team besides sophomore Alicia 
Boren — and has been consistently 
improving each meet.
“She’s come in and really just 
done what we knew she was able 
to do,” Florida coach Jenny Row-
land said.  “She’s done exactly 
what we’ve asked her to do and we don’t expect anything less this 
weekend."
Though Gowey has struggled to 
put complete meets together, the 
Urbandale, Iowa, native will be a 
big factor in the Gators’ lineup, es-
pecially on beam and bars.With only days separating Flor-
ida from the prospect of winning 
the program’s fourth NCAA title 
in the last ﬁ  ve seasons, the stakes 
are higher than ever for UF's young 
team.
It will need to get past some stiff 
competition, including Nebraska, Alabama, Georgia, Michigan and 
LSU, in their semiﬁ  nal to advance.
But the Gators feel ready for the 
challenge. 
“I think we’re all excited because 
we have been working towards this the whole season,” Hundley said. 
“I think we’re ready for our hard 
work to pay off.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org UF g ymnasts hoping for success in familiar venueCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Christian Hicks prepares to throw to ﬁ  rst base during Florida's loss to T ennessee on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. 
SWEET AND BAUER 
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueri
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer 
Despite a rough start to the 
season for the UF baseball team, 
which holds a 22-11 record with 21 games left, former Gators are trying to make a name for them-selves in the pros. 
Mike Zunino is one of the most 
recent Gators to make his MLB debut after being selected in the 
ﬁ  rst round of the MLB Draft by 
the Seattle Mariners back in 2013.
The 6-foot-2 catcher from Cape 
Coral went into Wednesday’s 
game with Houston ranking ﬁ  fth 
on the Mariners with ﬁ  ve hits and 
nursing a .208 batting average.
Pitchers underperforming, 
injured:
Veteran pitcher Darren O’Day, 
meanwhile, is trying to make more of an impact for the Balti-more Orioles as they attempt to improve their 89-73 record from 
last season.
Undrafted out of Florida in 
2006, O’Day made his ﬁ  rst ma-
jor league appearance for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, con-
tributing in 30 games in the 2008 
season.
With three games under his 
belt in the 2017 season, O’Day 
has an ERA of 16.88 after pitch-ing 2 and 2/3 innings with six hits and one strikeout.
In the National League, 
Cincinnati Reds pitcher and former Gator Anthony DeSclafani was hoping to improve on his previous season. 
Pitching 123 and 1/3 innings 
in the 2016 season, DeSclafani carried an ERA of 3.28 and 105 strikeouts. Unfortunately for DeSclafani, his pitching contributions will be on hold for at least four weeks after he sprained a ligament in his right elbow during spring training. He was transferred from the 10-day disabled list to the 60-day disabled list on April 5. 
Tebow time:Then there’s the quarterback 
turned outﬁ  elder: Tim Tebow. Despite Tebow not playing in the MLB, he’s striving to make an impact in the minor leagues as a rookie.
The former Gator standout 
is entering the second season of his pro baseball career with the 
Columbia Fireﬂ  ies, a low single-
A afﬁ  liate of the New York Mets, after playing in the Arizona Fall League in 2016. 
Tebow’s 2016 debut with the 
Scottsdale Scorpions saw him play in 19 games. He ﬁ  nished the season with a .194 batting average. After making 71 plate 
appearances with 12 hits and 20 
strikeouts, he helped his team to 
a 13-18 record overall. 
Five games into this season, 
though, Tebow already has two 
home runs. However, he’s also 
hitting .200 and has struck out 
seven times.
In his spring debut (March 8) 
with the Mets’ major league team, 
Tebow struck out twice in an 8-7 
victory over the Red Sox.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org 14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
The Associated Press
Tim T ebow runs to first during a Mets spring training game on March 13 in Port St. Lucie, Florida.
GATORS IN THE MLB
O’Day struggling with ERA, Tebow batting .200  in low-AWEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
good pitcher," O'Sullivan said.
The offensive fireworks were 
a welcome sight for O’Sullivan, 
whose team entered the game ranked last in the SEC in batting average, slugging percentage, on-base percentage, runs and RBIs. 
The pitching wasn’t as encour-
aging.
O’Sullivan said he wanted to 
get his young hurlers work against FSU, and he didn’t lie. 
Starter Sam Dyson was inef-
fective, allowing two earned runs in 1 and 2/3 innings. He was re-placed by fellow freshman Kirby McMullen, who also struggled, al-lowing two more earned runs in his 1 and 1/3 innings. 
From there, O’Sullivan turned the game over to veteran lefthand-er Nick Horvath, and from there, things got better for UF. Horvath shut out the Seminoles for 3 and 1/3 innings, allowing one hit and striking out three. He also allowed his team to build a comfortable lead. 
"Nick Horvath did a great job 
coming in with the bases loaded and nobody out," O'Sullivan said. "Didn't let them score."
He was succeeded by Langwor-
thy, who started in center field and finished on the mound. The freshman was, for the most part, effective in his 2 and 2/3 innings, although he got into trouble in the ninth by allowing a pair of runs. 
He was also about a foot away 
from giving up a homer that would’ve made it a one-run game, but the ball was caught and the game was over. 
O'Sullivan is hoping the team 
stays hot at the plate with a week-end series against Vanderbilt scheduled to get underway on Thursday in Nashville. He's also hoping he can squeeze more in-nings out of his freshmen arms. 
"Those guys have got to step 
up and give us more," he said of his young bullpen. 
"It's that simple." Still, despite some disappoint-
ment in the bullpen, he was still pleased to get another win over the Seminoles. 
"It's great to sweep Florida 
State in any year," he said. "Obvi-ously, we'll take it and get on the bus and go home and get ready for Vanderbilt." 
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg.13UF 's starter lasted 1 and 2/3 inningsCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Nick Horvath pitches during Florida's 2-3 loss to T ennessee on Saturday at McKethan Stadium.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
With 10:54 remaining in Flor-
ida’s game against Stony Brook, attacker Mollie Stevens received a pass from attacker Sammi Bur-gess and put it in the back of the net. 
The Gators held a 20-11 lead, 
and Stevens had scored her sev-enth goal of the game. But she'd also given Burgess another as-sist.
It's a familiar sight for Florida: 
While Stevens is racking up goals from in front of the net, Burgess is working the ball around for the assist.
Despite those different styles, the two team captains see similar 
results.
Stevens leads the team in 
goals with 41 and has 52 points, 
the second-most on the team. She also leads the team in draw con-trols with 69, keeping the Gators with possession of the ball after scoring goals.
“I think it’s more than just 
the goals that she scores,” coach Amanda O’Leary said following the team's game against Stony Brook. “(It’s) what she brings to the team with her energy, with her lacrosse IQ. Her all-around game has just improved tremen-dously, but all the credit goes to her. She’s put in the hard work to be where she is.”Burgess, on 
the other hand, 
has 25 goals, 
which ranks fourth on the team. Where she dominates, however, is 
on the assists 
and points leaderboards. The Fallston, Maryland, native has a team-leading 30 assists and 55 points. She also became the fifth Gators player to record 200 ca-reer points after recording four points against Cincinnati.
“Sammi’s been a fantastic 
player for us in all her years here,” O’Leary said after Flor-ida’s win over Cincinnati. “She came in as a freshman, set her 
mark early on and just continued 
to work hard. She’s developed 
into a complete player.”
Both players boost an offense 
that has outscored its opponents 124-44 in first halves and fea-tures five players with at least 24 goals. 
Stevens and Burgess will look 
to add to their season totals and to the Gators' offense when Flor-ida (11-2, 5-0 Big East) takes on Villanova on Wednesday at Don-ald R. Dizney Stadium. 
“Villanova will be a great 
test for our team,” O’Leary said. “They are coming off two very close conference games and will be ready to play us.”The Wildcats (3-9, 1-4 Big 
East) are coming off a three-game losing streak that includes a one-
goal loss against Georgetown and 
a two-goal loss to Temple. They 
are led on offense by attacker Katie Comerford with 27 goals and 12 assists and on defense by 
defender Sam Scarfogliero with 
42 ground balls and 27 caused 
turnovers.
The game starts at 1 p.m., and 
the Gators are looking for their 
fourth straight win.
“We’re really looking forward 
to playing another home game in 
front of our fans,” O’Leary said.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
Stevens, Burgess leading UF lacrosse team's offense
Stevens
MVP award. 
Because those secondary 
awards existed, they basically 
nullified the value of participa-tion trophies. They made them 
nothing more than a nice little 
keepsake or memento of a fun season playing baseball. 
I think that’s great, because 
I certainly don’t remember what teams I played for as a 
little leaguer at this point, let 
alone 20 years from now. Be-cause there was motivation 
in the form of larger awards, 
those participation trophies served as keepsakes for me but 
didn’t give me any sense of en-
titlement when I was a kid. 
The same thing happened 
when I played football later on, although in a slightly dif-ferent form. Everyone who 
played got a trophy, but the 
team that won the champion-ship got bigger trophies. 
It’s a different emphasis 
than what I talked about with baseball — teamwork over in-
dividual performance —  but 
the same principle still holds: There’s motivation to do more. 
Even though you got a trophy, 
there’s still not a sense of en-titlement because you know 
you could’ve done better. 
But maybe these aren’t 
the scenarios you envisioned when I first brought up par-
ticipation trophies. You might have imagined something 
more like what happened at 
a friend of mine’s high school graduation. 
She and many others wore 
multiple sashes, cords and ribbons to the ceremony for 
being leaders of various clubs 
or achieving certain grades. However, every single person 
also got a “Panther medal” to wear just because they 
were graduating. They meant nothing. 
This, I’ll admit, is 
problematic. 
It reminds me of Dash's 
line in “The Incredibles” after his mom told him everyone is special: “Which is another 
way of saying no one is," he 
answered.
A similar example comes 
from the Adult Swim cartoon "Rick and Morty." In the first episode of the show’s third 
season, Jerry, a naive moron 
of a father figure, gets a new job where he’s showered in 
awards. He can’t figure out 
why he’s getting them, but he’s very happy about it. 
It’s not the same as the 
graduation medal example, because it’s not like a bunch 
of people are just getting the 
same award, thus rendering them meaningless. It is simi-
lar, though, because it creates 
a false sense of achievement when awards are given out for 
no reason at all. 
But what if he were hypo-
thetically being rewarded just for effort?
I can practically hear the 
smoke flowing from your ears as you scream that effort is 
nothing to be rewarded. That only results matter. 
To that, I say: Really?I know results are impor-
tant, but is the message you 
want to send kids really that 
winning is the only thing that matters? 
It’s great to reward achieve-
ment for sure. Nothing wrong with that. But recognition for 
effort doesn’t seem controver-
sial either. 
Why not reinforce the value 
of trying rather than only the importance of winning?COLUMN,  from pg.1316   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2017
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
Few would characterize Florida’s last 
meeting with Florida State, a 1-0 UF win, as 
an offensive battle.  
It was a pitching duel.Behind a combined 16 strikeouts from 
then-junior Delanie Gourley, then-sophomore Aleshia Ocasio and then-freshman Kelly Barnhill, along with 12 strikeouts from the Seminoles, the game was pushed into extra 
innings.
Twelve, to be exact.
Both teams mustered four hits in the 
game, but the Gators secured the win off a 
solo home run down the right ﬁ  eld line by Ocasio.
In that game, Barnhill had six strikeouts 
of her own.
And in Florida’s most recent series against 
the Georgia Bulldogs, Barnhill put on a show, striking out 21 batters over two games.
Her pitching effort, combined with Gour-
ley’s (who had nine strikeouts in Sunday’s victory), was the decisive factor in the SEC sweep. The win on Monday evening also marked Florida’s sixth straight SEC win.  
“We weren’t at our best offensively,” UF 
coach Tim Walton said. “But I thought we were really good pitching-wise.”
Florida has been more than good this year 
in the circle. UF’s pitching staff boasts the lowest ERA in the country at 0.72.
And Barnhill has an ERA of 0.22 — the 
lowest in the NCAA. Gourley and Ocasio round out the ninth and 10th-lowest ERAs, at 0.83 and 0.84, respectively.But this pitching staff will be facing a 
Seminoles team that has the nation’s top 
batting average at .367.
With 10 Seminoles hitting .300 or higher, 
it could be a challenge for the Florida pitchers 
to keep them off the bases.
“We play more Saturday, Sunday, Mon-
day series than any team in the league,” Walton said. “And now to have to have a short turnaround and play Florida State after 
an off day is a difﬁ  cult thing.”
But no matter who Florida is playing, it 
seems the team doesn’t let games slip too far 
away.
Take Monday night for example. When 
No. 19 Georgia threatened with a player on second in the third inning, senior Justine McLean threw home from the outﬁ  eld in time to stop a runner from scoring. Florida 
immediately responded with a home run to 
push itself ahead.
And then there’s the March 25 game 
against then-No. 4 Auburn.  The Gators were down 3-2 heading into the ﬁ  nal inning, but a single from junior Nicole DeWitt brought home the game’s winning runs in front of a packed crowd.
It’s a crowd that is sure to be in atten-
dance tonight, as No. 1 Florida State faces No. 3 Florida (37-2, 13-1 SEC). It is their last home game before the Gators go on the road against Kentucky. The ﬁ  rst pitch is set for 7 p.m.
“I starred this week as probably one of 
the toughest weeks of our season,” Walton said.  
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org  UF softball takes on No. 1 Seminoles tonight in Gainesville
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio slides into home during UF’s 5-0 win over Georgia on Saturday.
