We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 103 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
Will UF football improve in 2017?
One of our columnists thinks so, pg. 13
After student death, RTS investigates bus stop
A UF student was killed by a drunk driver at a bus stop Saturday,
pg. 3
Fuchs, Poe sign agreement Tuesday
The agreement aims to make Gainesville a “new American city,” pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
CHOCOLATE CHAOS
Hong Yan holds her 23-month-old son, Shaoyuan Wang, while he helps his sister, Nancy Wang, 10, mix melted milk chocolate for Valentine’s Day lollipops at the T ower Road branch of the Alachua County Library District on Tuesday. More than 30 children and parents showed up to the free candy-making event at the library to celebrate the holiday.
THE OFFICE RECEIVED MORE 
THAN 1,400 CALLS MONDAY. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 1,400 rejected applicants called 
UF’s Admission Ofﬁ  ce Monday looking for 
answers. 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in 
an email that the calls came from “disappoint-
ed applicants who didn’t get admitted.”The volume of calls increased by about 
300 compared to the Monday after decision 
day in Spring 2016, he said.
Andrea Felder, the director of freshman 
and international admissions, said the ofﬁ  ce likely received more calls because more stu-dents applied to UF this year. She said the university has been working to recruit more high-school students from around the world.
This was also the ﬁ  rst year students could 
apply using the Coalition for Access, Afford-ability, and Success, a mass application sys-tem which allowed more students to submit applications, Felder said.
“We express our empathy for their disap-
pointment for not being admitted to the Uni-versity of Florida,” Felder said.
Friday, UF announced that 13,214 stu-
dents were admitted for Summer and Fall out of more than 34,000 applicants. In 2016, 42.5 percent were admitted from about 32,000 ap-plicants, and 44 percent were admitted for the Class of 2019. 
Felder said she won’t know if appeals have increased this year until students can ofﬁ  cial-ly submit them March 1. She said students of-ten call and imply they will try to appeal their decision, but few do.
Even fewer have their decision overturned, 
she said.
“Applications are reviewed multiple times 
during the initial review process, so our ad-mission staff and committee makes strong and solid decisions,” Felder said. “So students can appeal their decision but, again, because 
 After decision day, ‘disappointed’ calls ﬂ  ood UF Admissions
TWO OSPREYS ARE NESTING 
ABOVE THE ALFRED A. 
MCKETHAN STADIUM.
By Jenna Gray
Alligator Contributing Writer 
High above UF’s Alfred A. McKethan Sta-
dium at Perry Field, a pair of lovebirds have 
made their nest.
A female osprey, preening her brown and white feathers, snapped her head up at the sound of approaching wings. Once she re-alized it was her mate approaching, she re-laxed, waiting patiently as he brought her a ﬁ  sh to eat. 
Mark Hostetler, a UF professor in the UF 
Wildlife Ecology and Conservation depart-ment, described the scene, captured through a live-streamed video on the department’s website. In December, Hostetler installed a $5,000 camera with help from Wally San-chez, an employee with UF’s Network Ser-vices.
“I want to allow people to understand and 
engage with wildlife in urban areas,” he said. 
Hostetler said the birds arrived to the 
nest, located on the stadium’s lightpole, on 
Jan. 28, eight days after the live-stream was 
available.
He said he wanted to start the project af-
ter visiting New Zealand and seeing a similar camera set up for Royal Albatross birds. The birds above the stadium are the only he’s seen nest on UF’s campus.For now, the pair remain unnamed. 
Hostetler said the female osprey should lay eggs soon if they decide to stay in their cur-rent nest which the male built last year. 
If they make UF their home, a fundrais-
er will be held to maintain the live-stream, which costs $250 a month, he said. If a fun-draiser is held, it will incorporate naming the birds and chicks.
Hostetler said the pair are still courting, 
L ive-stream documents lovebirds above UF baseball ﬁ  eldBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was found dead with ap-
parent gunshot wounds to his head 
at The Ridge at Gainesville on Mon-day — and his ex-girlfriend is ac-cused of his killing, police said.
Jose Ricardo 
Ortiz III, 26, was found inside a 
unit he shared with his ex-girl-friend, 24-year-old Katherine Jean Tonner, lo-cated at 3717 SW 
24th Ave., according to an arrest re-port ﬁ  led by Gainesville Police.
The killing marked the second fa-
tality in 10 days to take place at The Ridge. On Feb. 4, a Santa Fe College student ran over a man in a parking lot at the complex.Tonner is believed to have shot 
Ortiz in his head with a semiauto-matic .45-caliber handgun, and then ﬂ  ed the city, according to the report. The couple had split up about 10 days ago.
One of Tonner’s roommates said 
he heard three loud bangs from Ton-ner’s room and then a ﬁ  re alarm at about noon before he found Ortiz’s body facedown near Tonner’s bed, according to the report. Expended shell casings lay nearby.
At about 12:30 p.m., Tonner 
drove to her parents’ house else-where in Alachua County before di-aling 911 to report that she had shot a man whom she loved after he had asked her for money, according to the report. She said she was suicidal.
She said she still had a gun, and 
the call taker told her to put it in a  GPD: Man fatally shot 
by ex-girlfriend at The Ridge apartments
SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4T onner
SEE OSPREYS,  PAGE 4SEE ADMISSION,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 103
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH 74° LOW  46°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
iSTEAM Speaker Series 
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
UF engineering graduate and contestant on “MythBusters: The Search,” Tracy Fanara, 
who will speak at the Marston 
Science Library on Thursday at 2 p.m. in Room L136. Fanara, a scientist at the Mote Marine Laboratory, will speak about her “MythBusters” experience; research on Florida beaches and waterways; and storm chasing.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealthIsabel Moreira will explore the relationship between wealth, almsgiving and perceptions of the afterlife in Europe be-tween the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take 
place Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in 
Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more information, email hu-manities-center@ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
offers free lessons and dances 
every Monday and Friday night. On Friday nights, the organiza-tion hosts two levels of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., and a so-cial dance from 9 p.m. to mid-night at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organization hosts two 
hours of lessons from 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m., and  social danc-ing from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more information, find the Florida Swing Dancing Club on Facebook.
#NotAccommodating T-shirt 
CampaignThe #NotAccommodating cam-paign is a visual protest to the changes marginalized people make to their identities in or-der to fit into mainstream so-ciety. Through this campaign, they hope to shed light on the community’s stories and 
how they should rise above it. 
The first event of the series, #NotAccommodating T-shirt Campaign, will be Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion Queerness and Disability is the second installment of the LGBTQ Affairs’ semester-long lunch series. They will look to examine and understand the in-tersection of LGBTQ+ identities and disabilities, and they will ex-plore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related to differ-ent facets of these intersectional 
identities. This event is open 
to all people, whether you do or do not identify as LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will take place in the LGBTQ Affairs space in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Feb. 24 from noon to 1 p.m.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
Following the death of a UF student at a 
bus stop outside Campus Club Apartments 
on Saturday, the stop’s safety has come 
under scrutiny and will be investigated.
Karan Kullar, a 22-year-old computer 
engineering student, was killed after a 
drunk driver sped over a curb near the 
bus stop and hit him, according to a sworn 
complaint ﬁ  led by Gainesville Police. 
Two of his friends suffered minor in-
juries in the accident, which occurred on 
Southwest 37th Boulevard.
While the surviving victims of the crash 
voiced concerns about the stop’s proximity 
to the road — it’s about two feet away — it is unlikely to be changed because there 
had been no recorded accidents there prior 
to Saturday’s, said Chip Skinner, a spokes-
person for Regional Transit System.
“People just need to be aware of their 
surroundings — especially at night,” he 
said.The distance from a bus stop to the 
road is determined by the speed limit of 
the road, the Florida Department of Trans-
portation and federal laws, Skinner said. 
Saurabh Prasad, a friend of Kullar’s 
who narrowly avoided the drunk driver Saturday, said the bus stop’s current prox-
imity to 37th Boulevard is a hazard.
“That bus stop needs an upgrade,” the 
UF computer science graduate student 
said.
Dana Liguori, 19, said she heard the 
crash of a car and a scream from her Cam-
pus Club apartment Saturday night.
The UF neuroscience sophomore said 
she takes the bus to class every day and often sees cars speed by.
GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias 
said police have not had complaints about speeding on 37th Boulevard. Liguori said 
the stop isn’t the issue; bad drivers are.
“I think the bus stop is safe but people 
who drive down this road aren’t,” Liguori 
said.  After student death, RTS 
considers bus stop safety
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
An anonymous artist in a gorilla mask drew a 
crowd of about 600 people to a UF auditorium on 
Tuesday.
The artist, who used the pseudonym Frida Kah-
lo, traveled from New York to deliver a message of 
inclusion, namely that of women in art museums.
UF’s Art History Association coordinated the 
event.
Kahlo, whose name is a tribute to the famed 
Mexican-born artist, is one of the founding mem-
bers of Guerrilla Girls, a group of “feminist activist artists” that aims to expose gender and ethnic bias, among other causes — all while wearing gorilla masks, according to its ofﬁ  cial website.
Dressed in all black and standing in front of a 
PowerPoint presentation, she spoke to attendees at Carleton Auditorium about the group’s history of activism and why its members continue to wage battle against sexism in the arts.
“We like to think our work makes a differ-
ence,” she said.
Since its inception in the 1980s, the group has protested in front of museums and publicized sta-tistics showing the underrepresentation of female artists. She spoke about how in 1989 she present-ed statistics of women artists and nude bodies fea-tured in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
“Less than 5 percent of the artists in the Mod-
ern Art sections are women, but 85 percent of the nudes are female,” her statistics read.
In 2011, the group went back and found similar 
numbers; 4 percent of artists were women and 76 percent of the nudes pictured are of women.
UF art professor Coco Fusco, who helped orga-
nize the event,  said the event had to be resched-uled after the speaker’s ﬂ  ight was delayed, but she 
was pleased by the attendance. 
“This is the largest audience we have ever had 
in a visiting artist lecture,” she said.
Helen Lehrer, 22, said she felt motivated by the 
group’s ﬁ  ght for equality.
“That’s inspiring for young people who have 
dreams,” the UF digital arts and sciences senior 
said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org Wearing gorilla mask, artist 
talks feminism on campus4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
drawer, according to the report.
She told a responding Alachua 
County Sheriff’s deputy she had 
placed the gun in a kitchen drawer.
“I shot him in the head,” she told 
the deputy, per the report. “I never meant to hurt anyone.”
Deputies brought her to GPD 
Headquarters for questioning, said GPD spokesperson Officer Ben To-bias in a statement.
Monday night, police arrested Tonner on a charge of first degree premeditated murder. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail, 
where she remains as of press time 
with no bond. Police are still search-
ing for a motive and investigating the 
couple’s relationship, Tobias said.
The GPD Forensic Crime Unit and 
detectives investigated the shooting and closed portions of the street in 
front of the apartment Monday after-
noon.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgSHOOTING,  from pg. 1She turned herself inBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and UF 
President Kent Fuchs signed an agreement 
Tuesday promising to turn Gainesville into a 
“new American city.”
The agreement came during the an-
nual State of the City Address, held at the 
Gainesville Police Department’s Hall of He-
roes. City officials, UF administrators and 
community members were in attendance.
The agreement, called a memorandum of understanding, is between the school and city — the first of its kind — honoring a strategic development plan, which aims to 
consistently improve Gainesville in the com-
ing decades, focusing on joint projects that will both culturally and economically help the city. 
“These partnerships are ones that enrich 
and sustain our university and our commu-nity,” Fuchs said.
Fuchs said by partnering with the city, 
UF is closer to accomplishing its most im-
portant goal of becoming one of the nation’s greatest public research universities.
“Now, with our visions and plans for the 
coming decades outlined in greater depth than ever before, we are fortunate to take 
this partnership to the next step,” Fuchs said.
Poe ended the address by highlighting the 
city’s achievements in the past year, includ-ing the opening of Depot Park, substantial economic growth in east Gainesville and a decline in violent crime and juvenile arrests.
“The state of our city is strong,” Poe said, 
although adding that there is much more work to be done.
Poe said Gainesville continues to have 
the highest concentration of poverty in the 
state and one of the highest rates of income 
disparity in the nation, adding that the city must work to become a complete commu-nity for people of every ethnicity and back-
ground.
“We are only as strong as the most vul-
nerable among us,” he said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgUF president, GNV mayor sign development agreement
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ROSES FROM REFUGEES
Rana Al-Nahhas, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior and the president of Students Organize for 
Syria, hands out streamer-made flowers and lollipops outside the Reitz Union to Mariam ElSafty, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, and Marissa Reyes-Skindziel, a 21-year-old UF junior.
during which the male brings the 
female fish, their main source of food.
The project is part of an effort 
by the department to get students 
to recognize their impact on Flori-
da’s wildlife, he said. 
The camera also showcases na-
tive birds, which gives students a sense of belonging at UF and an understanding of Florida’s nature. 
“Everyone has seen them 
around campus, but not from above,” he said.
The university can negative-
ly affect the birds’ environment through its fertilization and irriga-tion systems, he said. When too much fertilizer is used along with frequent irrigation, excessive nutri-ents are washed into nearby bodies of water.
The extra nutrients feed algae 
in the water, causing them to grow quickly, which hurts the popula-tion of fish the birds feed on. 
Eric Hellgren, the chair of the 
department, said he supported Hostetler with the camera project.
“We think it has some really 
nice educational value,” Hellgren said. 
Although the project was costly, 
he said it was worth it to make more students aware of the depart-ment.
“If we can get some people in-
volved, or interested in wildlife, we’ve done our job,” Hellgren said.OSPREYS,  from pg. 1Chicks may soon cometheir application has been reviewed 
multiple times already, there isn’t any new or compelling information that would cause a decision to be changed.”
When students call, Felder said 
they are advised on other ways to enroll at UF, including UF Online or planning to transfer.
“We are limited in the number 
of spaces for students to enroll on campus,” she said. “Despite the disappointment, we stand behind our decision and we cannot change them or reevaluate applications just because they’ve gone through an extensive evaluation to begin with.”When Bianca Barrera was a 
senior in high school in 2015, she  said she still planned to eventually make it to campus after she found out she wasn’t accepted into UF. 
Barrera, 20, said UF was her No. 
1 choice for a university, so Barrera, a business administration sopho-more, enrolled at Santa Fe College and transferred to the university this Spring.
“I just didn’t take no for an an-
swer,” she said. “There’s always other options. The first initial de-cision is not always the final deci-sion.”
 	 @romyellenbogen
	 rellenbogen@alligator.org
ADMISSION,  from pg. 1Some may make appeals
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A student who will lead soldiers into battle after 
graduating was unanimously approved Tuesday by UF 
Student Senate as the next Student Government Vet-
eran’s Affairs executive cabinet director.
Sean Titus, 21, was nominated by Student Body 
President Susan Webster after Student Body Vice Presi-dent Brendon “BJ” Jonassiant suggested him, Webster 
said. Titus, a member of UF’s ROTC program, was an 
Impact Party District B senator from Fall 2015 to Fall 
2016. After he graduates, Titus said he’ll become a ranked second lieutenant commissioned officer in the 
U.S. Army.
“BJ and I feel that he is more than qualified to fill the 
role,” Webster said. 
He was the only candidate in consideration, she 
said. 
Titus said he’s worked with UF Collegiate Veterans 
Society. In Fall 2014, he applied for the position but 
was denied. 
He plans to rebuild a fountain in the Reitz Union 
pond and dedicate it to veterans, he said. 
“The focus is on our veterans,” he said. “We can’t 
wait to help them.”  
The Senate meeting was canceled last week due to 
a lack of pressing business, said Senate President Smith Meyers. UF Student Body Constitution’s Article III Sec-tion 6 states Senate must meet once every two weeks. 
Senate also approved $1,400 in traveling fees for 
Gator Bhangra, an Indian dance group associated with the Indian Student Association, and $360 for the Vegan Eating for Gators student organization.  
A resolution stating Senate support for the $2.2 mil-
lion Plaza of the Americas renovations also passed.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgStudent Government approves 
new Veteran’s Affairs director
SPRING SG ELECTION DATES:
Feb. 21 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Feb. 22 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
LOCATIONS:
• Broward Hall library 
• Health Science Center C2-041C 
• Heavener, Room 202 
• Jennings first-floor library 
• Bruton-Geer Hall — side hallways by the cafeteria 
• Marston Science Library main room 
• Murphree Area Commons Conference, Room 106 
• Norman Hall Education Library 
• Reitz Union computer lab 
• Southwest Recreation Center — Cafe near entrance on left side 
• Springs Area Office, Room C202WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
CUPID AIMS FOR SAFE SEX
Dressed as Cupid, Mark Tracz, a 22-year-old UF student personnel in higher education master’s 
student, encourages a student to participate in the Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education 
Consent Fair. The event was part of the organization’s Cupid’s Consent Week to promote awareness 
about healthy sexual relationships. 
By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
A UF student in need of a birth -
day gift for a friend resorted to 
stealing $454 in makeup on Mon -
day, Gainesville Police said.
At about 6:15 p.m., Jamie Laine 
Smith, 19, picked out 17 makeup products from the Sephora section 
of the J.C. Penney inside the Oaks 
Mall, according to a police report. 
A store employee watched 
Smith put the items in her purse 
and leave the store, according to 
the report.
Smith is a UF anthropology 
sophomore, wrote UF spokesper -son John Hines in an email.
The employee told police anoth -
er woman, Kendall Elizabeth Berry, 
19, was with Smith and took two 
items and also concealed them in 
her purse, according to the report.
Smith and Berry tried to leave 
the store with the stolen items, po -
lice said, but they were stopped.Only Smith 
was arrested.
After her ar -
rest, she told 
police she didn’t 
have money to 
pay for the items 
and apologized 
for her behavior, 
according to the report. She admit -
ted to stealing the makeup and said 
she planned on giving them to a friend as a birthday gift.
Police arrested Smith on a 
charge of grand theft. Authorities 
took her to Alachua County Jail 
where she was released Tuesday 
on her own recognizance.
When contacted, Smith declined 
to comment.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: UF student arrested for theft of $454 in makeup
By Courtney Moberley 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
While the month of February is 
packed with love and romance, a UF 
student organization wants to ad -
dress safe sex.
Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Vi -
olence Education, or STRIVE, wants 
UF students to practice safe and 
consensual sex all year, especially 
around Valentine’s Day. From Tues -
day to Thursday, the organization is hosting Cupid’s Consent Week, three 
events to educate students about 
sexual violence, said Rita Lawrence, 
the interpersonal violence preven -
tion coordinator for GatorWell, of 
which STRIVE is a part. 
Lawrence said one of the best 
ways to prevent sexual violence is to 
teach people about consent. 
“If you don’t have consent, you 
don’t have sex; you have sexual as -
sault,” she said.
Lawrence, 50, stressed that any -one can be the victim of sexual as -
sault, regardless of sexual orienta -
tion or gender.
“Lots of people think, ‘Oh, you 
can’t have sex if it’s two women or 
two men, or someone who is trans -
gender,’” she said. “We don’t want 
to leave them out.”
The events, which have been 
held annually since 2013, began 
Tuesday with an organization fair 
at the Reitz Union Terrace, she said. 
Students walked to different tables and collected free condoms, lube 
and information about consent and 
safe sex. 
One of the participating organiza -
tions, Eta Sigma Gamma, promoted 
their event Sex in the Swamp and of -
fered condoms and lube to students 
answering trivia questions. 
“True or false: Consent is the 
most important part of sex?” asked 
Rachel Basmaci, a UF health educa -
tion and behavior sophomore. “Ob -
viously that would be true because you want to make sure both parties 
are informed.” 
Magdalena Coca, a UF biology 
freshman, said it was exciting to hear 
from the different organizations. 
“I just came along, and it was 
really fun to learn about all the dif -
ferent tables,” the 19-year-old said. 
“It’s important because some people 
don’t know that they’re doing some -
thing wrong, and they’re not aware 
that it might hurt somebody else.”UF organization to promote healthy, safe sex this week
IT LAUNCHED FEB. 7. 
By Darcy Schild
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new website is offering to help college 
students find their perfect jobs.
On Feb. 7, TransparentCareer launched 
a national website to help students compare 
types of jobs and salaries with alumni from 
their university. Students and alumni from 
more than 2,000 universities currently use 
the platform to create public profiles and fil -
ter through lists of companies and positions 
based on salaries and work hours, said Kevin Marvinac, the chief operating officer and co-
founder of the website. 
“The goal is for someone to log on and say, 
‘Hey, I’m a student at this school, I’m concen -
trating on this — what are my options? What 
can I get paid with this position at this com -
pany?’” Marvinac said.
The website will introduce a job-matching 
feature in March, which will let recruiters con -
tact students directly through the site, Marvi -
nac said.
“It’s like Match.com, but for your career,” 
Marvinac said. “We want to give students a 
good sense of where they stack up and smart -
ly recommend other companies and opportu -nities based on their preferences and skills.”
Unlike the website LinkedIn, Transparent -
Career is research-based, he said. 
“We don’t imagine we are replacing Linke -
dIn,” Marvinac said. “We are not a network -
ing site.”
The company currently employs outreach 
interns at 12 universities across the country, 
including UF.
Phillip Ahn, a 20-year-old UF philosophy 
junior, said he became an intern with the web -
site in January after hearing about it from the 
UF Entrepreneurship Club.
Ahn said he thinks TransparentCareer will 
be an effective resource for UF students be -cause it’s focused on exposing all aspects of 
a job.
“For millennials, job satisfaction is really 
important, so it’s great to have data from other 
people on how they like their position,” Ahn 
said.
Maggie Moskal, an 18-year-old UF psychol -
ogy freshman, said she’s interested in making 
an account on the website because she wants 
to pave her own path as she searches for a job. 
“I have a problem with finding reliable 
websites,” she said. “I think it would be good 
to have another resource where you can be 
an individual and take charge of your own 
career.”Website aims to make job hunting easier for college studentsBy Harrison O’Keeffe
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students at a Gainesville high 
school listened attentively Tuesday as 
an award-winning author spoke about 
how she wants to inspire them to be 
heard. 
Kekla Magoon, 
a biracial author of 
eight young-adult 
novels, spoke to 
about 500 stu -
dents at P.K. 
Yonge Develop -
mental Research 
School. The event 
was hosted by 
the Friends of the Alachua County 
Library. 
Magoon has won the NAACP Im -
age Award, two Coretta Scott King 
Book Awards and has been nominat -
ed for the National Book Award.
“I would like to inspire young 
black and Latino authors to let them 
know their voices can be heard in the marketplace,” she said.
Most of her other novels explore 
identity and race relations in the U.S., 
she said.
Cody Miller, a ninth-grade lan -
guage arts teacher, said the freshman 
class read Magoon’s book, “How it 
Went Down,” in October.
The book tells the story of a neigh -
borhood’s response to a black teen -
ager’s murder by a white man.
“Too often these issues are simpli -
fied in the news,” Miller said. “I think 
kids need the space to understand the 
nuances, complications and history of 
these issues.”
Magoon’s book offers that, he 
added. 
Magoon’s presentation included a 
reading session, during which six stu -
dents read portions of the novel aloud. 
For Samyra Lee, a freshman who 
was selected to read, the talk was in -
spirational.
“Her being a colored author made 
me feel like I can actually be an author 
and succeed at it,” Lee said. Award-winning author 
speaks at high school
Magoon
She stole from The Oaks Mall
Smith
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Get in touch with 
your emotions: Let 
yourself feel 
It feels like modern society idolizes logical thinking over 
emotional thinking. Bring feelings into an argument and you get labeled overemotional and hysterical. Gush about how much you love something and you’re given a side-eye for being too enthusiastic. Vent about how much you hate 
something and you’re told you’re being too passionate. It’s not clear when this preference for subdued emotions became the norm. It’s not even that society prefers totally logical thinking to the emotional way — we’re expected to have emotions, of course, but we need to keep them in check.
This, in turn, influences us. We may feel embarrassed about 
our happiness or our enthusiasm. We may feel we shouldn’t be so upset or angered at things, because no one else seems like they are feeling anything. We may try to keep our emotions to 
a pleasant agreeableness — after all, no one wants to interact 
with someone who’s too perky or too melancholy. We live like the non-playable characters in a mediocre video game, greeting each other with the same phrases, plastering a smile on our faces when we run into someone we know.
Now, we’re not trying to discredit politeness here. We’re just 
saying sometimes this ends up altering the way we feel.
We try to keep our emotions in check, but of what use, then, 
are our emotions? We should allow ourselves to experience the 
whole range of human emotion — elation, despair, passion, sor-
row and everything in-between. Often we start to feel, and we tell ourselves, “No, not now, I need to do something else,” and we push away that feeling. This is not good. It builds up. It may crumble one day. It may freeze. But whatever happens, sup-pressing the way we feel is not ideal.
We say society expects us to check our emotions, but it’s just 
as much our fault for thinking that’s what we’re expected to do.
This becomes taxing in our personal relationships, too. We 
rarely allow ourselves to be emotionally vulnerable with others, even those closest to us. Though we may express our admira-tion or fondness for our friends, lovers and family, there are still societal bridges. Men don’t hug as much as they did 100 years ago. That’s a fact. After a certain age, most of us stop turning to our parents for long hugs. We will post pictures of a night out with friends and talk about how fun and great they are, but do we sit down, look into their eyes and tell them how much they mean to us? 
We hope there is at least one person in your life you can turn 
to for a deep emotional connection; there’s something cathar-tic about being honest with your emotions and sharing them deeply with another person. But it’s hard. We fear judgement.  We’re afraid that others will not understand. It’s very hard, and it’s easier to push away your feelings or trivialize them, tell your friends you’re feeling fine or tell yourself you shouldn’t be so happy about a small thing. 
That’s why we should start with ourselves. Let yourself feel. 
When you get a good grade on an exam you studied hard for, let yourself feel every ounce of that hard work and satisfaction and joy. When you are frustrated with a Facebook post, don’t push away that feeling; don’t dwell on it too long, but don’t shove it away right off the bat. When you are sad, let yourself cry. 
There’s a whole range of human emotion that for some rea-
son we are preventing ourselves from experiencing. It’s only by knowing how we feel that we will be able to understand how others feel and be there for someone else when the need arises. February relationship series: notion of ‘innocence’
Any conversation about intimacy would be remiss to ignore the subject of sex, and I think it is vital to examine a long-standing social trend known as “purity culture.” Society has deemed sex the 
single act in human experience which is detrac-tive. The term “virginity” has no parallel in our language. You don’t avoid learning to swim be-cause you can never again be a “non-swimmer.” Let’s take a look at why.
Sex and shame are incredibly effective means 
of control. When you can convince a population that premarital sex is shameful, you reduce the number of children born outside of marriage. Why would anyone 
want to do this? Given modern alternatives, we often forget 
that for most of history, marriage has been a religious in-stitution, which required pledging to raise one’s children in accordance with the church. Proselytizing religions evolved to out-breed opposing faiths by discouraging nonprocre-ative sex.
These tactics are out of date. The dominant religions of 
the world are no longer fighting for numbers. What other factors perpetuate sex-negative attitudes?
Let’s clarify for a moment. What I am talking about here 
is the physical act of sex only. Arguments exist for absti-nence on the basis of pregnancy, disease and other manage-able risks. I credit my readers with enough intelligence to understand that failure to communicate with your partners, get tested regularly and use protection is irresponsible. These issues aside, what is the argument for “purity?”
 A key motivator is the notion of “innocence.” What 
does that mean? Innocence itself is defined as freedom from 
wrongdoing, or else as the absence of guile or deceit. It is 
often equated with naivete.
The first definition presupposes that sex is morally 
wrong. There are two roads to this way of thinking: Ei-ther one believes that morality is objective, decreed by some higher power, or one believes in subjective moral-ity. Regarding the former, I have already demonstrated that proponents of “higher morality” stand to gain from these claims. We would reject this conflict of interest in any other circumstance, and I will not dignify it here. What we’re left with is subjective moral-ity, where we must consider whether a thing is right or wrong based on the real-world effect it 
has.
The next definition assumes one who is not 
innocent is deceitful, and that to be naive is pref-
erable. Any action can be done deceitfully, but what of those who participate in sex without ly-ing to themselves, their partners or others? If sex can be done honestly, then we must discard the 
idea that sex is inherently deceitful. The second assumption is still more disturbing: that naivete is desirable. Naivete is 
derived from Old French, meaning one’s “original disposi-
tion,” without learning or change. Naivete is the state of a child, and yet we hold it up as a virtue that adults should aspire to be unlearned and inexperienced. Where the popu-lace considers knowledge shameful, it should be no sur-prise that they believe sex is detractive and corrupting. If such things were true, why would knowledge about sex be discouraged? Surely such dangers would make themselves apparent upon inspection.
Sexual purity is a baseless notion. So what do we do 
now? Let’s start by treating sex like any other experience. As countless people have learned, sex doesn’t change you overnight, just like having your first drink, smoking mari-juana or anything else that is sold to us as life-changing. These are all just experiences, and they become part of who we are one piece at a time. Experience does, however, lend us perspective and understanding, and those things are invaluable. The more of life we experience, the more we 
can empathize with others, the more we can draw on our 
experiences to create, discuss, and take informed action. To close ourselves off from an entire arena of life limits us immeasurably, and it’s not something we should do simply because we are told.
This column is the third in a series of four.David Billig is a UF linguistics master’s student. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORDavid Billig
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
I hate concerts. There, I said it. I hate 
concerts. I hate being packed like a sardine in a big crowd of sweaty peo-
ple. I hate nodding my head idly to the 
lackluster performances of small-time 
opening acts. I hate it when opening acts play long sets. I hate ticketing websites’ 
“convenience fees.” I hate overpriced T-
shirts. I hate that touring acts always sell warped vinyl. I hate buying something at the merchandise table at the beginning of the night only to realize I have to hold 
it for the rest of the show. I hate people 
loudly singing in my ear when I am trying to enjoy the show. I hate how sweaty my legs, armpits and forehead get while I am 
standing in the audience. I hate the way 
the bottoms of my feet ache after standing for three hours. I hate bouncers. I hate oth-er people’s body odor. I hate poor mixing. I hate poor lighting. I hate the way sold-out shows are so crowded and some venues are so poorly designed that in a ﬁ  re, several people 
would certainly be trampled on 
their way out of the venue.
I hate this band’s new album. 
I hate that they devoted half of 
their set to playing those songs. 
I hate fans who only want to hear this band’s old material. I hate meeting musicians at the merchandise table. I hate the way fans ap-
proach them, like they owe their fans more 
than driving across the country to perform the same songs they have been playing for months. I hate obnoxious audience mem-
bers who shout obscure titles for the band 
to play during the time between songs. I hate that audience members feel entitled to having their requests answered.
I hate concerts. I hate the idea of a band playing the same setlist night after night. I hate the lack of improvisation and freshness in 
these standardized performanc-
es. I hate being too short to see the stage. I hate being too tall for the person behind me to see the 
stage. I hate it when the person 
standing behind me yells at me for being too tall and standing in their line of vision. I hate get-
ting kicked in the shin in mosh pits. I hate 
mosh pits. I hate crowd surfers. I hate fear-
ing a serious neck injury just because some sweaty dude wants to feel like a rock star. I hate audiences that don’t dance. I hate 
getting beer spilled on me. I hate spilling 
other people’s beers. I hate buying them new beers because it’s the right thing to do. I hate buying overpriced drinks. I hate tipping rude bartenders. I hate holding a drink during a band’s entire set.
I hate that I am dressed exactly like ev-
eryone else at the show. I hate that this 
band is playing such a big venue. I hate 
this venue. I hate running into people I know at the concert, making small talk, telling them I have to go to the bathroom 
to end the conversation and then seeing 
them later. I hate going to the bathroom at shows. I hate losing my spot during the performance. I hate how crowded the bath-rooms are. I hate that there are no walls 
between the urinals. I hate that I always 
catch a glimpse of somebody’s penis by mistake. I hate that I am pee shy because of this. I hate bathroom attendants. I hate 
that I can’t smoke inside.
I hate that I hate concerts.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Much has been said, and much 
will be said, about the recent presidential election. It appears 
that many are still wrestling with 
the potential consequences of 
the outcome, and I doubt this wrestling will cease anytime soon. Unfortunately, this 
was my ﬁ  rst presidential election. I have 
no other experience of how an election nor-mally goes. Yet, this one did not seem to conform to anyone’s — except President Donald Trump’s — idea of how an election 
ought to go.
The most common observation I have 
heard tossed about after the election was 
that America is starkly divided. That is why 
Trump and Hillary Clinton pandered to op-
posite demographics that were not sepa-rated simply because of their political lean-ings. Rather, they were mostly separated by class, environment, race, gender, educa-
tion, occupation, etc. Their political lean-
ings were products of these other factors, not causes. Thus, Clinton excited young millennials, minorities and those with a higher education while Trump focused on older, working-class whites. 
This raises the question I 
wrestled with during the elec-tion: Do any Clinton supporters talk with Trump supporters and 
vice versa? 
I have concluded in the nega-
tive — it appears these separate 
Americas remain just that: sepa-rate. It is rare for an upper-class white 
person to connect with a working-class 
minority meaningfully outside of a college campus.
Over the past week or so, when reﬂ  ect-
ing on this, I had a thought: What about so-cial media? Facebook and Twitter have de-veloped into serious political spaces, places where dialogue ensues openly. Where does your crazy friend or overly political uncle 
go with his or her opinions? Social media. 
Where does everyone feel they can air their thoughts without consequence? Social me-dia. Most Americans glean their news from their Twitter or Facebook feed. 
Why, though, when we pos-
sess a fantastic medium for con-
necting with those whom we 
would otherwise ignore or never see in everyday life, do we seem to be more entrenched and di-
vided than ever before? Why isn’t 
the tool being used for its pur-pose of broader connection?
The Wall Street Journal did 
something brilliant during the election. 
They showed what news outlets, stories 
and opinion pieces appeared in a liberal and conservative Facebook feed. For liber-als, Mic and Vox were the dominant sourc-
es. Conservatives relied on Conservative 
Daily and Fox News. What was the point of this? They effectively showed that our daily media consumption, far from providing us the truth of current events, has become a 
means of conﬁ  rming our own biases. In 
other words, liberals and conservatives read news outlets that mesh with their po-litical leanings. If Obama says something controversial, a conservative reads about his failures at being a successful president while a liberal reads the opposite.
Thus, the news conforms to the politi-
cal leaning and conﬁ  rms it. The media has become a tool for reassurance, or a means of convincing oneself again and again that 
your side is right, and the other side is way 
off track. A serious consequence of this widespread practice is the further separa-tion of America into fractured pockets of people. How can we come together as one 
union when each side is utterly convinced 
the other is fundamentally wrong?
I wonder what would happen if we all 
started reading the news from at least one 
source that is ideologically opposed to our 
worldview. Would that at least open some minds to the complexity of politics and culture? It’s an imperfect suggestion, but maybe it would be a provocative ﬁ  rst step 
toward a more perfect union.
Scott Stinson is a UF English sophomore. 
His column appears on Wednesdays. I hate concerts: a reflection on concerts and why I hate them so much
A way to mend a fractured union: Consider understanding the other sideColumn
Column
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Protesters gathered outside U.S. Rep. T ed Yoho’s Gainesville ofﬁ  ce on Tuesday to demand a town hall 
meeting when he recesses. 
June Littler, a Gainesville resident since 1956, holds up a ﬂ  ag at the protest. Littler was part of the group of UF students who went to jail in 1963 for protesting following John F. Kennedy’s assassination. On Tuesday, she wanted to let U.S. Rep. T ed Yoho know she doesn’t approve of his voting record. “We hope to enlighten him, ” Littler said.
Photos by Will Coburn
Alligator Staff THE BUTTERFLIES PROMOTED 
HIV AND AIDS AWARENESS 
AS WELL. 
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
On Tuesday afternoon, about 50 paper 
butterﬂ  ies with messages of love appeared 
in trees on Turlington Plaza. 
Members of UF’s Undergraduate Public 
Health Association hung the colorful butter-ﬂ  ies, which they made with women from the Rural Women’s Health Project. The women who made the messages all live with AIDS or HIV and wanted to raise awareness about the diseases, said Ivanna Rocha, the asso-ciation’s community service chair.
The butterﬂ  ies were originally going to 
be hung in December for AIDS awareness month, but Rocha, 19, said Valentine’s Day was more appropriate to emphasize self-love.
“The butterﬂ  ies, which are symbols for a 
lot of their events, represent beauty in their troubles,” said Rocha, about the women who make up the Rural Women’s Health Project.
The quotes include inspirational messag-
es like “No rain, no ﬂ  owers,” and safe-sex awareness such as “Condoms are cheaper 
than AIDS.”
Although the organization believes it’s 
important to educate people about AIDS 
and HIV, the members want to emphasize these women aren’t suffering from the dis-eases, but living with them, said Rocha, a UF biochemistry and molecular biology sophomore. 
“It’s important to talk about it and rid 
the negativity,” she said.
Rural Women’s Health Project, a non-
proﬁ  t organization, uses health-based edu-cation and reaches out to rural women who 
are frequently migrants, said Nicole Zeiss, 
a UF health science senior who works with the group.
The butterﬂ  ies symbolize these women’s 
journeys, the 23-year-old said. 
“It’s an uplifting message of transforma-
tion,” Zeiss said.   On Valentine’s Day, paper butterﬂ  ies at UF promote self-love
YOHO PROTESTS CONTINUEWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. 
$375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com      2-15-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Female only. Sublease a furn BR in 3/2 pent-house at fabulously close to campus Social 28. Avail 5/1 to 7/31, 2017. $825/mo. Pool, gym, internet, utils & flat screen TV in BR are incl. Please call Tammy 954-599-6433     2-20-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-20-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Designated drivers are the greatestUnload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
JEEP WRANGLER UNLIMITED
For sale, 2016, white 4 door, 3810 miles, 
$38,000, or $10,000 and take over pay-
ments. Call 225-239-8512    2-21-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & 
weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Typist needed for book. 10 to 20 
hours per week , call 317-5427
2-20-5-14
Assessment Writers/EditorsProgress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. GEOGRAPHY: What are resi-
dents of Guam called?
2. GEOLOGY: What kind of mineral 
produces an emerald?
3. MUSIC: Who is godfather to John 
Lennon’s son Sean?
4. ZODIAC: What is the symbol for 
the zodiac sign Sagittarius?
5. ANATOMY: What does the “supe-
rior vena cavae” do in the human 
body?
6. U.S. GOVERNMENT: Who was 
the first vice president of the United States?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What vegetable 
gives borscht its color?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What fraternal organization’s motto is “We Serve”?
9. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
Christmas novel, “The Cricket on the Hearth”?
10. EXPLORERS: Which explorer 
was nicknamed “The Pathfinder” for mapping the Oregon Trail?
Answers
1. Guamanians2. Beryl3. Elton John4. The archer5. Carries blood from the upper body 
to the heart
6. John Adams7. Beet
8. Lions Clubs
9. Charles Dickens10. John Fremont
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 13, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 See 1-Down
5 Risk taker
10 Minimally14 He sang about
Alice
15 Ooze with16 Bond’s first
movie foe
17 Word with
interest or service
18 Lavin of “Alice”
19 Water retainer20 *More than is wise
22 River racers
24 Rose of Guns N’
Roses
25 Poetic pair
26 *Luxury resort
chain
31 “__ to leap tall
buildings ... ”
32 “David
Copperfield”
villain
33 Cain, to Abel,
informally
36 *Dominated the
election
41 Teachers’ org.
42 Sufficient, to
Shakespeare
43 Working hard
44 *Complete with
ease
48 Descends, as a
rock wall
52 Fluke-to-be
53 Worried54 Farewells ... or,
homophonicallyand read top tobottom, what thefirst words of theanswers tostarred cluesrepresent?
59 Fly in the
ointment
60 Fly-fishing catch62 Tennis score63 Floor piece64 “Maybe, just
maybe”
65 Big name in
furniture
66 Clairvoyant67 Got by68 See 58-Down
DOWN
1 With 1-Across,
Whoppers and
McRibs, e.g.2 Embossed cookie3 Southwestern
clay pot
4 Remove
respectfully
5 First-class6 Armpit7 Squirt8 Teacher’s deg.9 Thought (out)
10 Make sense11 Composer’s
embellishment
12 Bracelet spot
13 Biblical verb
21 Toy inserts
usually not
included
23 Crescent points
25 Either “The Man
Who Wasn’tThere” director
26 Doe’s dear27 Wind in a pit28 Arm bone29 Bull Run soldier30 Over-the-
shoulder garb
33 In __: as placed34 “Understood,” in
hippie-speak
35 “Little Women”
sister
37 Verbal nods38 Kind of 
geometry
39 “The Giver”
novelist Lowry
40 Thai language
45 Entertainers on
the road
46 Partner of
hollered
47 Wine choice
48 Reddish-brown
colors
49 Singer Lennox50 “Positive thinking”
advocate
51 “Your table’s
ready” signaler
54 Sticky stuff55 Radar dot56 Team 
connection
57 All tied up58 With 68-Across,
“Milk” Oscarwinner
61 Letter after pi
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/15/1702/15/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 15, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
UF lacrosse coach Amanda O'Leary is getting her team adjusted to the sport's new shot clock ahead of today's match with the Scotland National T eam, pg. 16UF women's basketball player earns SEC honor
Florida freshman Delicia Washington was awarded SEC Freshman of the 
Week honors for the second time this season, the conference announced 
Tuesday. The guard leads the SEC's freshmen in scoring and steals. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With about eight minutes left in the 
game, Canyon Barry drove hard to the 
basket. 
He came to a stop and lifted the ball 
high in the air.
The shot was swatted away as Au-
burn started a fastbreak, intent on get-
ting back in the game.
However, Florida guard Chris Chiozza 
picked the pocket of the Tigers’ Ronnie 
Johnson and ﬂ  ung a pass to Barry, who stood wide open at the three-point line.
To the disappointment of the crowd, 
the 6-foot-6 graduate transfer rose up for the shot and ripped the net, putting the game out of reach.
It was a familiar site for Auburn.Behind Barry’s season-high 30 points, 
No. 15 Florida (21-5, 11-2 SEC) defeated the Tigers 114-95 in Auburn Arena on Tuesday night. UF's 114 points are the 
most it's ever scored in an SEC game. 
In addition to Barry, six other Gators 
scored in double digits, including 17 
points on four shots from KeVaughn Al-
len and 14 points from Devin Robinson.
“We made shots at a high level. Re-
ally shared the ball. Executed well,” UF coach Mike White said. “We’ll take it ev-
ery night.”
Despite putting forth arguably its 
most efﬁ  cient offense of the season, Flor-ida struggled with the Tigers’ up-tempo 
offense for much of the game.
A pair of wide open three-pointers by 
Johnson gave Auburn (16-10, 5-8 SEC) 
its biggest lead of the night at 30-22 near-
ly halfway through the ﬁ  rst half.
The Gators, sparked by Barry and 
center John Egbunu, eventually took 
their ﬁ  rst lead at 35-32 after a fastbreak three-pointer by forward Justin Leon. 
Egbunu had 10 points on 3-for-3 
shooting and four rebounds but left the game early with an apparent knee injury.
He never returned, and UF went into 
the locker room tied 50-50.“Auburn, they’re so potent offensive-
ly,” White said. “They come at you from so many different ways, so many differ-ent angles.
“We couldn’t ﬁ  nd a defensive rhythm.” 
Florida’s defense found a spark in 
the second half, though, as the Gators opened the ﬁ  nal frame with a 9-0 run.
 Barry scores 30 in UF win at Auburn 
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
With the Gators up 2-1 in the 
10th inning against then-No. 6 Michigan, coach Tim Walton 
claimed he could hear something 
in the dugout.
No, it wasn’t the fans.It was heartbeats.“The staff members’ hearts 
were beating louder than the play-ers',” Walton said. “(The players) 
just were playing and understand-
ing what to do. I think they are very conﬁ  dent and conﬁ  dent in one another.”  
This stroke of conﬁ  dence Wal-
ton saw in his players in such a huge game was just one of the components he was looking to see this past weekend. Another was trust.
“Trust your process. Trust your 
work. You put in a ton of time and then you have to go out and ex-ecute,” Walton said.
Execution — both on the 
mound and at bat — were major factors in Florida's dominant per-formance at the USF Wilson-De-marini Tournament.  
With all four pitchers making 
an appearance, a combined 46 strikeouts were thrown while 10 hits were given up.
Senior Delanie Gourley gave up 
just one hit the entire weekend in the eight total innings she pitched.  
“Delanie Gourley really set the tempo for the weekend with her outstanding pitching performance, and then coming in to relief in 
probably one of the most pressure 
situations you can ever imagine,” Walton said.
Impressive pitching was seen 
by all, with both freshman Katie Chronister and sophomore Kelly 
 UF to take dominant pitching staﬀ   to Jacksonville tonightOn Monday, one of my colleagues penned 
a column saying that Florida football fans shouldn’t be optimistic. That UF won’t be making a third-consecutive trip to the SEC Championship. That with Florida’s daunting 
2017 schedule, the Gators are doomed to mediocrity. 
His reasons for saying so revolve around that 
challenging schedule as well as a depleted defense that lost not only eight starters, but its defensive co-ordinator. There’s also the fact that Florida’s offense hasn’t been able to stop its slog since the days of Tim Tebow. 
But nevertheless, I say to my colleague, in the 
words of ESPN College GameDay host Lee Corso, “Not so fast, my friend.”
Yes, the loss of defensive starters hurts, but it’s 
not like this hasn’t happened before. Last season, the same question marks surrounded the departures of defensive backs Keanu Neal and Vernon Hargreaves, defensive linemen Alex McCalister and Jonathan Bul-lard, and linebacker Antonio Morrison. 
In stepped Alex Anzalone, Chauncey Gardner, 
Jabari Zuniga, Caleb Brantley and Marcell Harris, who all played at a level high enough to duplicate the success of their predecessors. 
Granted, eight players is more than ﬁ  ve, but Flor-
ida has — at least theoretically — the talent to make up for what it lost.
In the secondary, where the Gators lost starting 
corners Jalen Tabor and Quincy Wilson along with starting safety Marcus Maye, replacements are avail-able. Gardner, a sophomore DB, senior nickel back Duke Dawson, senior safety Nick Washington and a Florida football 
will be better in 
2017: a rebuttal
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriSWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
The Associated Press
Gators guard Canyon Barry (24) is fouled by Auburn guard T.J. Dunans in Florida's win at Auburn on Tuesday. Barry scored a season-high 30 points.
14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHONBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Over on the West Coast, late lead changes 
decided the fate of Florida’s women’s golf 
team.
The Gators came into Tuesday with 
momentum, leading Southern California by two strokes after Monday’s playthrough.
Senior Maria Torres and junior Taylor 
Tomlinson had provided the punch for Flor-ida’s attack through the ﬁ  rst two rounds, posting scores of 3 under (139) and 2 under (140), respectively.
But on Tuesday, in what amounted to a 
four-horse race among 15 teams competing at the Northrop Grumman Regional Chal-lenge in Palos Verdes, California, the Gators ultimately squandered their two-stroke lead, ﬁ  nishing in fourth.
“We hung in there for a good portion of 
the day,” coach Emily Glaser said in a re-lease. “It was a disappointing way to ﬁ  n-ish.”
Midway through the third and deciding 
round Tuesday afternoon, Florida traded jabs with Duke, USC and Arizona State, swapping the lead several times throughout before ﬁ  nishing at eight over, four strokes behind tournament champion USC.
Tomlinson, a Gainesville native, gave 
the Gators some good news, tying for ﬁ  rst among all golfers with Duke’s Leona Maguire and University of Nevada-Las Vegas’ Mackenzie Raim at 4 under for the tournament. 
“I am really proud of Taylor,” Glaser said. “She was consistent and composed this week and deserves this win. I hope it continues to open her eyes to the caliber of player that she is.”Senior Kelly Grassel also performed well 
after an admittedly disappointing opening performance in the Florida Challenge on 
Jan. 30, ﬁ  nishing fourth on the individual 
leaderboards at three under.
“I often tell myself to press the reset but-
ton,” Grassel said after her outing at the Florida Challenge. 
Grassel posted a seven over at that 36-
hole event while competing in team play, 
leading to her removal from the team’s 
lineup in favor of an individual outing this 
week.
Florida’s weakness was par-4 holes this 
week. UF shot 29-over par on them. 
Par-5 holes, however, seemed to be no 
issue for the Gators, as the team shot a com-bined 9 under on those. 
Florida also drained more eagles than 
anyone else in the ﬁ  eld by two and ﬁ  nished 
tied for second in putts made for par.
“This group has had a lot of success,” 
Glaser said. “Although we took it on the chin today, I believe we will be better for 
it.”
Next weekend, the Gators will travel to 
New Orleans for the Allstate Sugar Bowl In-tercollegiate Golf Championships where, in 
2016, Florida edged out Oklahoma State by 
one stroke. 
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org  Tomlinson ties for 1st, UF takes 4th at Northrop Grumman
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
Different.
That’s the adjective Florida 
men’s golf coach J.C. Deacon used to describe his team. 
Deacon, now in his third season 
as the Gators’ coach, told reporters on Monday that UF is as deep as any team he’s coached.
“The competitiveness is crazy,” 
he said. “I think there’s a little bit of desperation in this team, which is good. It adds a little bit of pressure, but at the same time they all know how good we can be.”
The No. 3 Gators are coming off 
a win at the Sea Best Invitational 
that saw Ryan Orr, one of two se-
niors on the team, take home the 
ﬁ  rst individual title of his college 
career. 
Deacon said being able to see 
that was amazing. 
“Our guys are playing at such a 
high level that if you can beat just your teammates alone, you’re going to be a pretty good situation,” he said. “And Ryan showed that beat-ing Alejandro (Tosti) by one to get his ﬁ  rst win, so we’re all really, re-
ally happy for him.”
Tosti, a sophomore from Argen-
tina, ﬁ  nished second at Sea Best, 
giving him his third top-three ﬁ  n-
ish in his past three tournaments. 
Deacon had high praise for Tosti as well. 
“Yeah, Ali, he’s amazing. His 
talent is so incredible. He’s one of the best players that I’ve ever seen,” Deacon said. “He can do anything with the golf ball. He’s gifted.”
Despite the encouragement and positive outlook, Deacon knows the challenge ahead. 
Florida will host the SunTrust 
Gator Invitational on Saturday and 
Sunday, a home tournament at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
The Gators haven’t won on their 
own golf course since 2011 and 
have not placed higher than third as a team since their last win at Mark Bostick. 
Even though Florida has strug-
gled to win its own tournament, the Gators come into the weekend with three team wins and a top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  n-ish in every tournament this year. Deacon said the team wants to end 
the drought this weekend and feels 
the continued losing at home is un-
acceptable. 
“It’s important for the guys to 
win,” he said. 
“I think all of us think it’s really 
important to let Ryan Orr and A.J. 
Crouch leave with at least one Gator win. So they’re going to be playing hard for them this week.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org 
 Gators men’s golf looking to take momentum to SunTrustAlligator File Photo
T aylor T omlinson putts at the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course. She tied for ﬁ  rst in the Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge on Tuesday.
WOMEN’S GOLFWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Barnhill allowing one hit in their 
pitching performances on Sunday.
As a freshman, Barnhill went 
15-1 on the mound and threw 164 
strikeouts, and her performance 
this weekend was just as com-manding.   
“Kelly Barnhill probably has 
as electric stuff as I’ve ever seen a pitcher have. More swing and misses this weekend then I’ve ever seen out of a pitcher on our 
staff,” Walton said.
The Gators were also poised at 
bat. In the five-game stretch, Flor-
ida's hitters had six hit-by-pitches 
and 32 walks. That was combined 
with nine home runs and 39 total hits.
And it wasn’t just the return-
ing players making the big con-
tributions at plate, as both fresh-man Jordan Roberts slammed the 
game-winning hit against Michi-
gan and redshirt freshman Sophia 
Reynoso snagged her first home run.
In the season's opening tour-
nament, Walton can already see 
how his players are stepping into 
— and competing at a high level in — their respective roles. He's hoping that trend continues to-
night when Florida faces Jackson-
ville at 6. 
“I do think you can clearly see 
the understanding of the roles and the understanding of wanting to 
win,” Walton said. “We have es-
tablished a standard of excellence and you need to operate that way, and I think we all saw that this 
weekend.”
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 13Florida will take the 
field vs. Jacksonville at 6
trio of four-star true freshman corners should 
plug the holes. Perhaps not as well as Tabor, Wilson and Maye did — it’s hard to replace 
three probable high NFL Draft picks in one 
season — but well enough to keep the de-fense elite. 
At linebacker, where Jarrad Davis and 
Anzalone are gone, the Gators can turn to sophomores David Reese, Vosean Joseph, Kylan Johnson and Jeremiah Moon. 
Reese was already named a Freshman All-
American by Pro Football Focus, and while the other three don’t have much experience, Moon was a four-star recruit before injury kept him off the field in 2016, and Johnson and Joseph both showed potential last sea-son. 
Plus, due to injury, the Gators played with-
out Anzalone and Davis for a good chunk of last season. They were fine. 
Finally, while UF loses Caleb Brantley, 
Joey Ivie and Bryan Cox along the defensive line, Khairi Clark and Taven Bryan both bring experience to the inside of the line, and true freshmen four-star tackles Tedarrell Slaton — Florida’s top 2017 recruit — and Elijah Con-liffe are both big enough to contribute right away. 
Meanwhile, on the edge, Cox’s loss is al-
most a non-factor with how little he played last season due to injury. The Gators could go with senior Jordan Sherit, juniors CeCe Jef-ferson and Keivonnis Davis, redshirt sopho-more Zuniga, sophomores Jachai Polite and Antonneous Clayton, or true freshman Zach-ary Carter. 
This is a good time to jump into that 
daunting schedule my colleague mentioned, which starts against Michigan in Dallas. He contends that this will be a loss because Michigan blew out the Gators in the 2015 Citrus Bowl and had a better season than UF in 2016. But this argument fails because Michigan enters 2017 with far more question marks than Florida.
The Wolverines lost their starting running 
back, tight end, three offensive linemen, all four starting defensive linemen, two starting linebackers and four starting defensive backs. 
Now, that isn’t to say that Michigan’s re-
placements won’t be adequate, but it is to say that this shouldn’t automatically be counted as a loss. With all the departures, Michigan — kind of like Florida — is unpredictable en-tering 2017. 
He also says Florida will have a hard 
time with Tennessee, Vanderbilt, LSU, Texas A&M, Georgia and Florida State. 
That’s entirely possible. I’m not gonna sit 
here in naivete and proclaim the Gators are going to go undefeated. 
But with 10 of 11 offensive starters return-
ing coupled with the success Jim McElwain has had in his first two seasons, isn’t it at least fair to give the them a chance?
Ethan Bauer is the sports editor. His 
columns appear on Wednesdays. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @ebaueri 
COLUMN,  from pg. 13Alligator File Photo
Coach Tim Walton talks with T aylor Schwarz in UF's doubleheader vs. Jacksonville on Feb. 17, 2016. 
Alligator File Photo
Coach Jim McElwain gestures during Florida's 30-3 win against Iowa in the Out-back Bowl on Jan. 2. The Gators will return 10 of 11 offensive starters in 2017. 
Auburn’s Mustapha Heron, one 
of the SEC’s leading scorers, scored 
his first field goal of the night — 
a tip-in with the Gators up 16 — 
with under nine minutes left in the game.
The Gators held Heron to nine 
points on 2-for-12 shooting.Senior guard Kasey Hill, who 
scored just three points against Texas A&M on Saturday, had an all-around game against the Tigers. He totaled 11 points and 12 assists 
for his first double-double of the 
season.
For the game, the Gators shot 
56 percent from the floor, hit 11 three-pointers and converted 37 of their 42 free throws. 
“We hope we can ride the mo-
mentum offensively,” White said, “and figure out a way to get some stops.”
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.rogHOOPS,  from pg. 13Hill earned a double-double behind 11 points and 12 assists
FLORIDA'S TOP PERFORMERS AGAINST AUBURN
Canyon Barry:  30 points, 8-for-17 shooting, 11-for-12 FTs
KeVaughn Allen:  17 points, 3-for-4 shooting, 9-for-10 FTs
Kasey Hill: 11 points and 12 assists16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
When the No. 3 Florida lacrosse team 
played No. 1 North Carolina on Saturday, one 
thing was noticeably different from last sea-son’s game.
It wasn’t the players on both sides missing 
due to graduation, nor was it the game being played in Gainesville rather than Chapel Hill. It was the timer counting down from 90 under the scoreboard, something that played a part in UNC’s 13-10 win over Florida.
This is the ﬁ  rst season that the NCAA intro-
duced a shot clock. Before, teams could hold onto the ball for as long as possible. 
Now, teams have just 90 seconds to shoot 
the ball, or the ball is turned over to the other team.
For the Gators, the shot clock won’t be an 
issue for their fast-paced offense.
“I think it just gives you a sense of urgency, 
you know?” attacker Shayna Pirreca said after the loss to UNC. “It’s like when you see 20 sec-onds left, the offense can get frantic, like they have to score right away, which we’re not re-
ally used to where we can just hold the ball 
forever before.”
It was a rare sight for the shot clock to dwindle to half for Florida because of its quick-shot attack. 
But on defense, the shot clock could make 
all the difference near the end of close games.
The Tar Heels used the shot clock to their 
advantage, forcing Florida to spend most of the 90 seconds playing tight defense and trying to stop UNC from getting the open cut.
And when it got the open cut, UNC capi-
talized, won the subsequent draw control and put Florida back into the same position it was in before. 
For most of the game, Gators defenders had 
to apply pressure to the UNC attackers, forcing two turnovers due to a shot clock violation.
“I think 90 seconds is a long time, so I don’t 
envision it being that big of an impact through-out the season,” coach Amanda O’Leary said on Saturday. “Whether it changes when people play a zone, maybe it will be a little different.”
The shot clock won’t be an issue for Florida 
on Wednesday when it plays an exhibition match against the Scotland National Team at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Last season, Florida played the Wales Na-
tional Team, winning 16-5 in a game it con-trolled. And earlier this season, it played the U.S. National Team in a 20-19 loss that looked similar to the UNC game.With No. 4 Southern California looming on 
Feb. 24, this game against Scotland could get the Gators more accustomed to the shot clock and better prepare them for the tough non-con-ference schedule that lies ahead.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  Before hosting Scotland, UF adjusts to new shot clock 
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
UF attacker Shayna Pirreca runs down the ﬁ  eld during Florida’s season-opening 
loss to No. 1 North Carolina on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
LACROSSE