By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Two teens were arrested early Tuesday 
morning after breaking into an apartment at 
Windsor Park Apartments, Gainesville Police said.
Maximillian Alfonso McCray, 18, and a 
16-year-old boy entered the apartment, which was unlocked, at about 12:15 a.m. Tuesday, wearing ski masks and armed with a hand-gun, according to an arrest report.
The 16-year-old held 
someone who lived in the apartment at gunpoint while McCray stole $210 in cash, an Xbox One, a lap-
top and a tablet, according 
to the report. 
The victim, an off-duty 
security ofﬁ  cer, took a picture of their car, a white Ford Taurus, as the suspects ﬂ  ed, police said.
Ofﬁ  cers tried to pull over the teenagers 
twice before eventually stopping the car at the 1200 block of Northwest 12th Avenue, north-east of UF’s campus, GPD spokesperson Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Police took the teens into custody. The 
victim identiﬁ  ed them, and police found the handgun and stolen items inside the car, To-bias said.
The 16-year-old told police he broke into a 
home with his cousin to get some marijuana, but he denied taking anything other than mon-ey and marijuana, according to the report. 
The two were visiting from Merritt Island, 
Florida, to seek refuge from Hurricane Irma, police said.
McCray was arrested on a charge of armed 
home invasion robbery and remains in the Ala-
chua County Jail, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$150,000 bond. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 9 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
Gators to return to the Swamp on 
Saturday 
SEC conﬁ  rms UF can host T ennessee despite hurricane recovery, pg 14.
UF students break into the Swamp 
Two students stole items from the stadium Sunday, pg 5.
Gainesville residents document Irma 
See photos students, residents captured after the storm, pg 4.FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time in its history, UF has 
been ranked among the top 10 public uni-
versities in the nation by U.S. News and World Report. 
UF tied for ninth place in the 2018 best 
public colleges and universities national ranking with both the University of Cali-fornia, Irvine and the University of Cali-fornia, San Diego. 
This is the ﬁ  rst time any public college 
or university in Florida has been included in U.S. News and World Report’s top- 10 ranking. Florida State University was ranked 33rd, and the University of Cen-
tral Florida was ranked 90th in the report.
UF jumped up ﬁ  ve spots from last 
year’s U.S. News and World Report 
ranking, increasing most in the metrics of student selectivity, graduate rate per-formance and undergraduate academic reputation. 
When UF President Kent Fuchs as-sumed his role in 2014, he said he made it a goal for UF to become a top-10 public university during his time as president. 
“To make a jump from 14th to ninth, I 
was surprised,” Fuchs said. “I knew we’d get there, that was certain. But it was also the question of when we’d get there. To be amongst the top 10, it’s pretty special.”
In 2013, UF was designated “preemi-
nent” by the Florida Legislature, allowing it to receive funding for their initiative. UF has since received $52 million from the state for the initiative, has hired 100 
faculty members and plans to bring in an 
additional 500 through state funding and funraising.
Fuchs said increasing staff size makes 
UF’s educational mission more effective. 
“Students will have smaller classes, 
and there will be more faculty to serve as advisors to our student body,” Fuchs said.  
Fuchs has his sights set on making UF 
a top ﬁ  ve public university, an initiative UF breaks top 10 in report 
on public universities 
SEE TOP 10,  PAGE 5
GPD: Two teens arrested after robbery at Windsor Park  
McCray
Zachariah Chou / Alligator
MONSTER ON THE STREET 
A UF employee drives a bulldozer through Museum Road, which was ﬂ  ooded due to 
heavy rainfall from Hurricane Irma. 
Staff Report
Daniel Dickrell and his 10-year-
old son Daniel cleared their street 
of branches and moss with match-ing rakes Monday, four hours af-ter Category 1 Hurricane Irma hit 
Gainesville.
“I’m out of power, and I’m 
bored,” the UF mechanical and 
aerospace engineering professor said. “I ﬁ  gured I’d do something other than stare at a wall.”
Dickrell was one of 38,000 
Gainesville residents who lost pow-er during the storm. He stayed up until about  4 a.m. Monday watch-ing the sky light up blue and green from exploding transformers. 
“I hadn’t seen that before,” he 
said. “It was cool and scary at the same time.”
However, Gainesville Regional 
Utilities was quick to respond to outages. GRU is still working on restoring power to about 14,000 customers, said Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe during a Tuesday tele-phone conference with the city’s emergency management ofﬁ  cials. About 44,000 GRU customers in 
and around Gainesville have had 
their power restored, as of press time.
“That’s a remarkable job in a 
24-hour period, and actually one of the best turnarounds in the entire state through this storm,” Poe said.
Power outages also affected 
many street lights, which were out Sunday, Monday and Tuesday.
In Marion County, one man 
died in the aftermath of Irma. At 3:20 a.m. Tuesday, a Mississippi man and another driver failed to stop at a broken light on the corner of U.S. 301 and Southeast 132nd Street Road and collided, according 
to a Florida Highway Patrol press 
release. The man was declared dead at the scene, and the other driver wasn’t injured.
More outages occurred at 20 
lift stations — facilities that pump wastewater and sewage from lower elevations to higher eleva-
tions — out of the 170 stations in 
Gainesville. The city is asking resi-dents to minimize their water us-age until all the lift stations are up and running. 
Gainesville Public Works De-
partment has received 575 service calls since Saturday and is working to respond to all of them, Poe said. 
Residents have been warned to 
stay away from standing water in case of animals, electrical currents and other dangers. 
City operations will resume 
normal hours Wednesday. Waste collection will be delayed one day from residents’ normal date. 
During the height of the storm, 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Chief Sadie Darnell said ACSO re-ceived about 2,400 distress calls, which is almost double the average amount of calls they receive daily. Deputies responded to almost 400 hazardous conditions Monday. 
Some Gainesville residents will 
still face repairs after the city and 
UF, Gainesville bounce back from Hurricane Irma
SEE AFTERMATH,  PAGE 3Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
HIGH  87° LOW  69°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?  
Study Abroad Info Session 
A study abroad information ses-
sion will be held Wednesday at 
3 p.m. in Bryan Hall, Room 130. 
The session will highlight the UF Heavener School of Business 
programs in Dublin, London, Madrid, Paris and Rome, along 
with exchange programs. These programs are open to all UF 
students and majors. Take on-site courses in language, art and 
culture toward major or minor degree requirements. Internships 
and scholarships are available in 
all locations. For more informa-
tion, visit warrington.ufl.edu/
heavener/studyabroad. 
Viva Museum
Celebrate South American culture from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturday 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. Enjoy musical groups 
Danzas PeruJax and 5 Notas per-
forming traditional Latino music and dance, and view Andean ar-
tifacts from the museum’s South 
American ethnographic collec-
tion. This is a bilingual, all-ages 
event. For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/vi-
va-museum or call 352-273-2061.
Pirate Murder Mystery
Celebrate “National Talk Like a Pirate Day” at the Florida Museum of Natural History on 
Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Come dressed in swashbuckling 
attire for this interactive theater 
event. Please preregister. For more information, visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/murder-
mystery.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 9
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Greg Bogos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 county finishes conducting emergency man-
agement.
Marty Parks, a Study Edge employee, said 
he felt his home shake during the storm as a large tree crashed through the ceiling and 
created four holes throughout the house. 
When the tree fell, Parks immediately tried to divert the falling water by using trash bags to funnel it into a bathroom sink. 
The tree fell from the right side of the 
house, but was large enough that it covered the front and back of the house, he said. 
“It punctured the house in a pretty incon-
venient manner,” Parks said.
Parks and his roommates have to evacu-
ate the house for a few days for repairs, he said. 
On UF’s campus, which will reopen 
Wednesday and resume classes Thursday, there was minor damage from flooding and fallen trees. 
Leaks were reported in buildings around 
campus, which included resident halls Beaty 
Towers and Jennings Hall, said UF spokes-
person Janine Sikes. Six suites in Beaty had leaking water, and water collected in the lob-by of Jennings Hall, she wrote in an email. 
Maggie Stokes, a 19-year-old UF math-
ematics junior, had a roof leak in her ninth floor Beaty East dorm room around 1:30 a.m. Monday. Water also seeped into the apart-ment from around the windows.
Stokes and her roommates placed towels 
on the ground and under the windows and used trash cans to catch water. Stokes said her carpets were soaked, but it could have been worse. Last year, she said they experi-enced similar damage during Hurricane Mat-
thew. 
“Our situation wasn’t nearly the worst 
in Beaty,” she said. “Our RA said that some 
of the rooms were completely flooded, and people were moving all of their stuff out of the rooms.”
There are a couple of fallen trees around 
campus, including the big oak tree in front of the Physics Building, Sikes said. 
Megan Newsome, a 21-year-old UF as-
trophysics senior, teared up when she saw the fallen tree, which had been standing for more than a century.  
“It just feels like the tree was a part of the 
building that has been so integral to my time 
as a student since I’ve spent so much time 
there,” Newsome said. 
After the storm had done its worst, Ted-
dy Paddle, 46, walked his dogs, Luna and Matize, Monday morning and surveyed the damage on campus.
Paddle said he fled his coastal home in St. 
Petersburg and sought refuge with his son, a UF student. As he came across a large tree, 
which fell across the front pathway of An-
derson Hall, he thought about the worst pos-sibility for his St. Petersburg home: a storm surge.
“I haven’t heard from anybody in our 
neighborhood,” he said on Monday. “We all evacuated.”
Carl Beck, 68, also found shelter in 
Gainesville to escape a possible storm surge 
in St. Petersburg. He and six family members 
packed up the car and took back roads to Gainesville on Saturday after most Pinellas County residents had left. 
“The path kept going from the east to the 
west to the east, and for days we thought we were safe enough to weather it out,” said Beck, who had never experienced a hurri-cane before.
Beck planed to return home Tuesday to 
assess damage.
“I’m cautiously optimistic that the place I 
live in is not flooded.” 
Alachua County Commissioner Ken Cor-
nell said the biggest surprise was the amount of flooding the county received. He said the county requested additional pumps with the hope of clearing standing water as quickly as possible. Flooding in Gainesville affected 
residents near Hogtown Creek, where water 
levels rose enough to cover roads.  
Nathan Service, a 21-year-old UF public 
relations senior, lives near Hogtown Creek and watched the waters rise. Before he fell asleep at 1 a.m. Monday, he set an alarm ev-ery hour to check on the water level. 
“It did get a little closer than comfortable, 
but it wasn’t unexpected,” Service said.
Though some roads in Gainesville were 
closed due to flooding, Gainesville Regional Transit System will resume with reduced ser-vice Wednesday and return to normal opera-tions Thursday, Poe said.
There will be no service on routes 19, 
21, 27, 28, 29, 36,37, 38, 39, 40, 46, 62, 76 
and 77 on Wednesday. All UF campus and 
Later Gator routes will also not be in service,  wrote Gainesville Police Officer Matt Goeckel in an email.
Routes running on reduced service 
Wednesday will be 9, 10, 12, 13, 20, 23, 33, 34, 35 and 43. The other routes will run like normal. 
Ever since Jessica Valdes lost power, 
she’s relied on RTS. 
Valdes, a 22-year-old UF political science 
and Portuguese senior, wrote in an email that she uses the bus to get to campus for homework and food because she can’t work or cook in her home at Oxford Manor Apart-ments.
The limited routes affect the amount of 
time Valdes spends on campus studying, but she said she can find another bus.   
“I understand why there is limited ser-
vice,” she said. “I am impressed with how much urgency and efficiency the city of Gainesville officials have acted to restore the city to its normal activities.” 
Staff writers Jessica Giles, David Hoff-
man, Meryl Kornfield, Christina Morales, 
Jimena Tavel and Catie Wegman 
contributed to this report. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The tree that was in front of UF’s Physics Building was split after Hurricane Irma passed through Gainesville. This tree was one 
of the oldest live oaks on campus, living for more than a century.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Plywood-boarded windows on a home located on the corner of West University Avenue and Northwest 20th Drive had the phrases spray-painted on them: “Beat Irma” and “In All Kinds UF Weather. ”
Multiple residence halls experienced damage or flooding
AFTERMATH,  from pg 14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
Ashley Leong / Alligator
TO THE RESCUE 
Above: A man uses a chainsaw to cut down a fallen tree blocking Northwest 52nd T errace in the 
Devil’s Millhopper area.
Right: Matt Pfost greets fellow Gainesville Fireﬁ  ghter Brett Thomas as he exits a ﬁ  re at the Oak 
Park Apartment complex on Monday morning. In the aftermath of Hurricane Irma, Gainesville 
Fire Rescue was unable to respond to calls until the winds slowed at about 5 a.m. 
Justin Bright / AlligatorWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE PROGRAM IS 
REFLECTING ON 
ITS BEST STORIES 
THROUGH THE YEARS.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
For its 50th anniversary, the Samuel 
Proctor Oral History Program is show-
ing its highlight reel. 
Since 1967, the Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program has collected nearly 
7,500 interviews and transcribed more 
than 150,000 pages of history notes.  
To celebrate the program’s golden 
anniversary, the director, Paul Ortiz, and student volunteers put together a campaign to commemorate some of their favorite recorded interviews, pub-lic programs and oral historians, Ortiz wrote in an email. Ortiz said they don’t 
know the exact date of the anniversary 
but know it is this year. 
Ortiz said it’s hard to pick his favor-
ite story, but he loves the stories from 
Samuel Proctor and Joel Buchanan, two historians from UF. 
“These two remarkable men dedi-
cated their lives to ﬁ  ghting racism and anti-Semitism in Florida, and they were the foremost oral historians at the Uni-versity of Florida for decades,” Ortiz said. 
The anniversary program, called 
“50 Years, 50 Faces,” is on the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program’s Face-book page. Free access to all of the pro-gram’s processed oral histories, videos, photographs, transcripts and more can be found online through their website. 
“We wanted to take the opportu-
nity to remember landmark public pro-grams at UF,” Ortiz said. 
Anupa Kotipoyina, a 22-year-old UF 
graduate student in the social studies ProTeach program, helped put together the promotion. 
“It introduces you to, like, a kind of 
diversity that you wouldn’t really ﬁ  nd in the classroom,” she said. 
Kotipoyina said she feels very lucky 
to be involved with the Samuel Proctor 
Oral History Program in its 50th year, 
because few other universities have similar programs. 
“It’s such a unique organization 
and when it was created, it was re-ally unique because oral history was kind of developing then,” she said. “It was sort of a new methodology, a new practice, and I still feel like it’s evolved 
so much.”
@Christina_M18 
cmorales@alligator.orgSamuel Proctor Oral History 
Program turns  50 years old
THEY STOLE MULTIPLE 
ITEMS FROM A 
MAINTENANCE CLOSET. 
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF students were ar-
rested early Sunday morning af-
ter breaking into Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, University Police said.
Noah Antonio Thomas Tay-
lor, 19, and Thomas John De-Paola, 19, jumped over the fence on the south side of the stadium at about 2:15 a.m. Sunday, ac-cording to an arrest report. 
The two took multiple items 
from a maintenance closet in-side the stadium, police said. An ofﬁ  cer, who was sitting in his car in a service driveway of the stadium, heard a loud bang 
come from behind him, accord-
ing to the report. 
He saw Taylor and DePaola 
outside of Gate 6 of the stadium hitting a black object against the sidewalk. The ofﬁ  cer told them to stop, and the two students ran off, according to the report. 
The ofﬁ  cer told Taylor and 
DePaola to stop multiple times, but they kept running, the ofﬁ  -cer said. The two were caught near McKethan Stadium, located at 2190 Stadium Road, accord-ing to the report. 
Taylor and DePaola told of-ﬁ  cers they were intoxicated, knew the stadium was not open to the public and decided to steal a few items from the main-
tenance closet, according to the 
report. 
Taylor and DePaola were ar-
rested, charged with burglary and taken to the Alachua Coun-ty Jail. Both were released on their own recognizance Sunday.  
Taylor and DePaola are stu-
dents, according to the UF Stu-
dent Directory.
Taylor declined to com-
ment, and DePaola could not be 
reached for comment. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUPD: Two students arrested after 
breaking into Ben Hill Griﬃ   n Stadium
UF has been focused on for the 
past year and a half. 
The state of Florida’s popula-
tion is the third largest in the U.S. Because of this, Fuchs believes 
UF should strive to be in the top 
three public universities in the nation as well. 
“I really believe this universi-
ty has its destiny in the future as being one of the nation’s top ﬁ  ve universities,” Fuchs said. 
For Naomi Hardin, an 
18-year-old political science ma-jor, the top-10 ranking solidiﬁ  es her choice to attend UF. “The fact that UF is now one 
of the top 10 really emphasizes in my mind that I made the right choice.” Hardin said. “It just gives me another reason to abso-
lutely love UF.” 
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.org TOP 10,  from pg. 1UF jumped rankings from 14th to ninthThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Column
During the past long weekend, I had 
a lot of time to reflect on how our community comes together when the 
possibility of a natural disaster looms 
over our heads. For one, it touched 
my heart to see just how close this community has become within the last week or so.
I first started to notice this when the stores 
began running out of water. Sure, some of you made jokes about it and tried to sell bottles for triple their original cost, but a lot of you went out of your way to make sure that everyone, not just your 
friends and family, got water.
In fact, I distinctly remember one student going as far 
as to post on a UF Facebook group that she’d hand out 
free water bottles to students that didn’t get a chance 
to get water. Although I try to put up a strong face with 
most of these columns, I’ll admit that this made me cry a few tears of happiness.
Once the water crisis was averted, on came the de-
pleting gas problem. Once again, I watched as this com-
munity chimed in on where to find gas and where the 
shortest lines were. Day after day, you replied to one another’s Facebook posts and tried to make sure your fellow Alachua County residents had gas. I silently took 
note and was impressed. 
After the water was rationed and the gas bought, 
next came the housing dilemma. On Friday night, Ala-
chua County issued a voluntary evacuation for residents and others in the area that were in mobile homes, man-
ufactured homes and RVs. On came the flood of mes-
sages and Facebook posts with people reaching out to offer their homes and services to our neighbors. 
While most people might have opted to go to a shel-
ter or stay at a motel or hotel instead, I’m sure a lot of us were touched by how compassionate our fellow Gators and Gainesville residents were in a time of hardship.
Once the humans were taken care of, 
however, more problems remained. All of the animal shelters were booked. I watched as organizations like Gainesville Pet Rescue and Alachua County Humane Society waived 
adoption fees. I saw you all step up to the 
plate by either adopting or fostering a good portion of these dogs and cats, who I’m sure 
felt much better being in your homes and being com-forted than spending this frightening time in a rescue 
facility.
Finally, there was your local and nationwide news 
organizations, along with Gainesville Police and Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Office, that provided you with 
all of the information you needed. The Gainesville Sun 
suspended their paywall to make sure all residents had access to factual news, which was very kind of them. Newspapers such as The Sun Sentinel and The Miami Herald worked tirelessly to provide you with around-
the-clock news, and so many other papers and news or-
ganizations worked together to keep you informed. GPD and ACSO pitched in by sending out Facebook posts with vital information, such as where to go if you need-
ed to take shelter and helpful hints on a regular basis.
Please realize, dear readers, how proud I am at this 
moment to say I live in a community like this. A com-
munity where people look out for one another and en-sure that everyone is cared for. I am glad you’re all safe, 
and I applaud all of you for showing the rest of the U.S. 
what teamwork looks like.
Sara Marino is UF journalism senior. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.When it gets tough, Gainesville comes together
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgEditorial
Not everyone came 
out of Irma as lucky 
as Gainesville
We were lucky. Other areas? Not so much.
Anticipating a Category 3 hurricane, Gainesville 
residents stockpiled water, canned goods and, of 
course, as much alcohol as we could find. We pre-pared for the worst and hoped for the best. Luckily, 
when Irma arrived in the Swamp, we were met with a storm much tamer than expected. 
Monday morning some of us woke up without power. Many 
of us looked outside of our windows to find a street that resem-bled a swimming pool more than a paved road. Others awoke to a fully functioning home with no oddities in sight other than some stray pieces of debris. Gainesville had no casualties, and the city itself remains relatively intact. Needless to say, we were pretty fortunate. 
Although we might have the luxury of resting easily knowing 
we are safe, other people affected by Irma cannot say the same. According to the Associated Press, 13 people in the U.S. died from storm-related injuries. In the Caribbean, at least 35 people lost their lives. 
Not only did people lose their lives, but homes were destroyed, 
towns were demolished and areas that once held sentimental memories were turned into nothing but tattered bits of debris.
What we all need to realize is that the reality of these recent 
natural disasters is something people all around us are still deal-ing with. Millions are still without power and without resources. They continue to live each day with no idea when their lives will go back to normal. 
In addition to the physical effects of Irma, many people are 
struggling with emotional impacts from the storm. Many Gators who hail from other areas of Florida stayed on campus to brave the storm. Even though they themselves remained safe, a number of their families did not. Plenty lost the homes they grew up in, 
and their families continue to handle the stress of recovering from 
the storm. 
Now that the initial panic is over, it’s easy for us to move on 
with our lives. We made it out fine, so there isn’t anything else to worry about, right? Wrong. 
Just because we are safe, others still need help after Irma. 
People need help after Harvey. People need help after the recent earthquake in Mexico. People need help preparing for Jose.
We know it’s easy to walk the streets of Gainesville with the 
sun shining down on you, without a care in the world. We know it’s easy to carry on as though there aren’t people in Jacksonville who can’t leave their house because of flooding, or as though there aren’t people in the Caribbean who lost homes and loved ones. We understand that you want a mental break. We get it, we really do. But unfortunately, it isn’t time to relax just yet.
 Now more than ever, we need to come together and do what 
we can to help those suffering after the recent natural disasters. 
You don’t need to travel to disaster areas and rebuild houses, 
although you can. You don’t need to open your homes to victims, but you can. Helping people who need it can be as easy as do-nating $5 to a GoFundMe page or as drastic as teaming up with Habitat for Humanity to help rebuild cities and towns. 
The impacts of Irma and Harvey are still fresh, and Jose 
doesn’t lag too far behind. We were lucky but it doesn’t mean we should stop caring. Just as we would have wanted people to do for us, we need to do what we can to help victims of these di-sasters. Small acts of kindness can go a very long way, and right 
now, the world needs a lot of them.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Gainesville has a policing problem. 
The Sarasota Herald-Tribune 
published a blistering report of bi-
ased judicial sentencing patterns across the state in December 2016, 
focusing one section of their four-part inves-tigation squarely on Gainesville. 
The report explores the burden shoul-
dered by east Gainesville in GPD’s war on drugs, ﬁ  nding that GPD patrols black neigh-borhoods in east Gainesville — stopping 
college-aged males for minor infractions like 
jaywalking or biking without lights and then busting them for marijuana possession — 
while leaving west Gainesville and UF’s cam-
pus largely unbothered. The result is young black men who appear before judges with 
much longer rap sheets, leading to harsher 
sentences than their white counterparts. 
 And there are plenty of white counter-
parts.
Several studies have shown that whites 
and blacks use drugs at equal rates, and 
many students on this campus know the fre-
quency that fellow students use drugs like marijuana, cocaine, ecstasy, mushrooms and 
LSD. What’s more, white peo-
ple outnumber black people in Gainesville almost 2-to-1 (making 
up 64.9 percent compared to 23 percent of Gainesville’s popula-
tion, respectively), whites in pov-
erty outnumber blacks in poverty by almost 2-to-1 (18.4 thousand 
to 11.7 thousand, respectively, 
according to city-data.com) and whites outnumber blacks on UF’s 
campus, where fewer than 4,000 of the 
50,000 students are black.
If Gainesville residents were policed with-
out bias, such differences would carry over into arrest data, with roughly two white peo-ple busted for every black person. 
Instead, according to data collected by 
the Sarasota Herald-Tribune for GPD arrests in 2014, 343 black people were busted for 
misdemeanor marijuana charges compared 
to 122 whites — that’s almost three black people for every one white person busted. 
The effects of such policing practices are 
intuitive, if not obvious. In a city with as deeply racist a past as Gainesville ( the Sara-
sota Herald-Tribune reported “a known Klan member worked for the county jail 
as recently as 2009”), disparate 
treatment by police only further 
entrenches rational community distrust. 
So, what can be done?To GPD’s credit, they’ve ac-
knowledged this problem and, 
since 2012, have established sev-
eral initiatives to address it. In a Facebook response to the Sarasota 
Herald-Tribune’s investigation, GPD em-phasized their awareness, describing a new Youth and Community Services division, 
which includes a Disproportionate Minority 
Contact Initiative, entailing mentoring and job training programs for community mem-
bers. Just last year, former Attorney General 
Loretta Lynch honored GPD Sgt. Audrey Mazzuca with a distinguished service award 
for her work combatting this problem. 
These steps are positive and, according to 
GPD, are producing change.
However, decency and responsibility — 
which is what these programs amount to — 
will only go so far. 
The war on drugs is a complicated one, and while race plays a role in who gets sin-gled out for drug busts, many argue money 
motivates the busts in the ﬁ  rst place. 
“Drug enforcement justiﬁ  es ofﬁ  cer sala-
ries,” the Sarasota Herald-Tribune wrote in a report. “High arrest numbers help agencies 
apply for millions of dollars in federal grants. Forfeiture laws let police keep cars and cash 
seized from drug dealers.” 
Ofﬁ  cers therefore have economic incen-
tive to crack down on drugs, and indirectly have incentive to crack down on the com-
munities least likely to object to arrests and forfeitures with legal action. 
Until we can incentivize ofﬁ  cers economi-
cally to spread their attention more evenly among Gainesville’s people and problems, 
(perhaps redistributing forfeitures among 
non-police related public resources or urging federal representatives to alter the criteria for 
federal grants), we can expect this problem 
— and the racial inequity that accompanies it — to linger.
Champe Barton is a UF economics and 
psychology senior. His column appears on 
Tuesdays. Gainesville policing has a bias problem in the war on drugs  When I tell people I am a journal-
ism major, I am often met with 
wary looks. I have had some peo-
ple make statements about how 
much money I will make. Others 
have the completely wrong image of what I 
want to do.
I want to make it clear that being a jour-
nalism major does not mean I will be report-
ing in war zones or even on television at 
all. Sure, those are some journalists’ goals, 
but not everyone's. A journalist like me just 
wants to write and report. The ﬁ  eld is broad, 
so get the image of a woman with perfectly 
combed hair with a monotone news voice 
out of your head. That is not the only form of a journalist.
The question that I get asked the most 
when I say I am a  journalism major is the 
one that irks me the most: “Isn’t it a dying 
industry?” No. Absolutely not. The world will have journalism as long as people need 
information about the world around them. Print newspapers may be dying, but news is not and will not. It is just moving to the digital world like everything 
else.
I do not think people think of 
journalism as most journalists do. 
Without this ﬁ  eld of work, people would be ill-informed. Journalism 
is the reason people know about 
the happenings of the world.
Without journalism, people 
would have little to no knowledge about 
political candidates. They wouldn’t have 
heard about the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 
2001, as promptly as they did. They surely 
wouldn’t know about crimes in their cities, 
bills being passed in the capital or all of the other things that people need to hear about 
as quickly as possible.
The ﬁ  eld of reporting is for the people. 
Journalists are the watchdogs of this coun-
try. If there is a story that needs to be report-ed or a scandal that needs to be uncovered, 
journalists are here to do that. A journalist’s job is to inform the public in an accurate and prompt manner.
When talking about just how 
important journalism is, I like to bring up the fact that the Water-
gate scandal was uncovered by 
two young journalists for The Washington Post: Bob Woodward 
and Carl Bernstein. This changed 
the world’s view on journalism. 
The world saw just how power-
ful the media could be. Journalism keeps the government in check.
I know that journalism is an underrated, 
misunderstood major. People think it’s easy, 
and most do not even know what it actually 
entails.
When I say I am a journalism major, peo-
ple often say something along the lines of, 
“Lucky, you don’t have to take hard class-es.” Those people, dear reader, could not be 
more wrong. 
Some of our classes are deﬁ  nitely more 
fun than organic chemistry, but some are 
the bane of our existence. Reporting at UF is the monster of all monsters, throwing stu-dents directly into the ﬁ  eld. This major isn’t 
one where you simply take classes, but one 
where you dive head ﬁ  rst into experiencing 
journalism. Right off the bat, students start 
working on assignments that are similar to what they will someday do in their careers. 
Everything is about building skills and a 
portfolio.
Next time you read a news article with 
important information, ask yourself if you 
would have gained that knowledge if jour-
nalism did not exist. Next time someone 
tells you they are a journalism major, know 
that they work just as hard as a STEM major 
does. Next time someone says newspapers are dying, hit them with the fact that news 
will never die out.
The world needs news, and the world 
needs journalists.
Kacey Finch is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Journalism is an underrated, misunderstood and important ﬁ  eld of study
Kacey Finch
opinions@alligator.org
Champe 
Barton
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
“15 Days of Bento”
Bento to celebrate anniversary with two weeks of 
deals (pg 9)“It” Review: 
One of 2017’s biggest horror ﬂ  icks doesn’t clown around (pg 10)By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Although Hurricane Irma canceled vari-
ous shows around town during the past 
week, there’s still plenty of live music to 
see before September ends. Here are ﬁ  ve 
concerts that are worth your while to attend throughout the next few weeks.
Sept. 13 – Magic City Hippies, Flipturn 
and The Hails at High Dive
Popular indie funk trio Magic City Hippies 
will be bringing their talents back to High Dive tonight. This Miami-born band has stopped in Gainesville a few times before, 
with their last show taking place in Febru-
ary at the same location. They’ll be joined by Flipturn and The Hails, local groups with a similar indie/alternative rock sound. Tickets are still available for $14 via Ticketﬂ  y, Hear 
Again Records and at High Dive itself. The 
show starts at 9 p.m., with doors opening at 8 p.m.
Sept. 15 – Hard Boiled featuring Mystic 
Grizzly, Lucy and Rest In Pierce at Realm
Local production company Over Easy 
Creative’s monthly Hard Boiled event, which celebrates heavier and more experimental bass music than the norm, is set for this Fri-day at Realm Nightclub. Each of the Florida-based headliners will bring their unique style to the table, with local artists guaranteed to open up the night. Free cover is available 
before 11 p.m. if attendees tag themselves 
and their friends on the Facebook event page before 8 p.m. Friday. After 11 p.m., cover will be charged for either $5 or $10 based on the turnout.
Sept. 20 – Funtcase and Phiso at Flor-
ida Theater
Funtcase, an England-based dubstep pro-
ducer and DJ, will bring even more bass music to the Florida Theater on Wednesday, Sept. 20. Phiso, an equally heavy artist, will offer opening support. Tickets are available 
for $10 to $15 via eventbrite, with the show 
running from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Sept. 27 – Papadosio and Phutureprim-
itive at High Dive
Self-dubbed “space rock” group Papa-
dosio will bring their funky sound to High Dive on Thursday, Sept. 27 for what should be a huge show. This Asheville, North Caro-lina-based band has toured around the coun-
try, with one of their more recent stops being 
Red Rocks Amphitheater in Morrison, Colo-rado. Phutureprimitive will be joining the group as an opener, with the show running from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tickets are available 
for $16 to $18 via ticketﬂ  y.  
Sept. 29 – The Savants of Soul at Heart-
wood Soundstage
Close out September with one of Florida’s 
most exciting bands at one of Gainesville’s 
newest outdoor venues. The Savants of Soul, a nine-person soul band from Gainesville, will bring their big, brassy signature sound to Heartwood Soundstage on Friday, Sept. 
29 from 8 p.m. to midnight. This show 
doubles as a live recording event, with the performance set to be livestreamed. Tickets are available for $10 via eventbrite, and the 
livestream purchase will also cost $10. 
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Dubstep producer Funtcase will bring his talents to Florida Theater on 
Wednesday, Sept. 20. Courtesy to The Alligator.
High Dive, one of Gainesville’s most popular live music venues, will now double as a live audio and HD video recording venue.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer 
High Dive is expanding its servic-
es to better serve downtown Gaines-ville’s music scene.
High Dive recently announced that 
it is expanding available services for its performers. The facility will now offer high-deﬁ  nition video and audio recording on site. This will allow art-ists to record live performances as well as professional tracks.
Unlike other spots in town, High 
Dive is a venue ﬁ  rst, rather than a restaurant or bar. High Dive serves drinks from their “Beer Garden” bar and frequently hosts local food trucks, but the space is only open when there is a show. During the fall, however, High Dive often ﬁ  nds itself open and hosting every night of the week.
“I feel like we keep the live music 
scene running and rolling,” said Pat Lavery, High Dive facility and events manager. “Without our space, we’d have a vastly different landscape as far as live music and events go down-town.”
Now, in addition to their focus 
on live performance, High Dive will have recording services available to performers. This has come as a result of interest from performers and direct 
efforts from High Dive sound coordi-
nator, Travis Lindsay.
“It kind of happened organically,” 
Lavery said. “Our goal was to offer the bands a really affordable way to 
record their band. Whether it’s just 
a really simple two-track recording 
or something a little more involved 
where it’s actually mixed down.”
High Dive aims to provide this 
affordable avenue for new artists to 
record tracks and get their music out 
there with a fast turnaround. This not 
only opens new bands up to wider 
audiences, but allows agents of larger 
bands to determine whether or not 
they would book them as an open-
ing act. Additionally, larger acts are 
able to video live sets, capturing the 
excitement of the High Dive atmo-
sphere.
“On a regular night recently, I 
come in and we’re setting up for the 
show, and I have Travis telling me, 
‘Oh, all the bands want a recording 
tonight,’ so I’d say the response has 
been very good,” Lavery said.High Dive expands to live audio, HD video recording venue 
Five concerts to catch throughout the rest of September 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
Walk-ins Welcome
Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Saturday 9 a.m. - 2 p.m.
352-379-4686First day of 
School!
Get a haircut.
First job interview:
Get a haircut.
Look fresh for 
Career Showcase.
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
In 2002, Bento Café: Asian Kitchen + Su-
shi opened its original location at 3832 W. Newberry Road. On Sept. 15, it will celebrate its 15th anniversary with “15 Days of Bento,” an event that plans to give back to Bento cus-tomers and the community.
From Friday to Sept. 29, Bento Café will 
put forth company-wide promotions, host daily giveaways and rotate specials.
With increased demand to its Newberry 
Road location, Bento Café opened its Archer Road location in 2007. Ten years later, the restaurant will soon add a third Gainesville 
location to the space below The Standard 
apartment complex, joining the Chick-Fil-A and Target Express that is expected to open across the street from the new Publix on 13th 
Street.
This new location will add to its current 
spots in Orlando, Jacksonville, Davie and 
Tallahassee. In 2017, Bento Café will add Pembroke Pines and St. Petersburg to its list 
of locations, according to a press release.
The Tung brothers grew up in the fam-
ily restaurant business, and when they were 
approaching graduation from the University of Florida, they opened the ﬁ  rst Bento Café 
location in the only city they had ever called 
home.
“Fifteen years ago when we ﬁ  rst opened, 
we never dreamed of expanding out of 
Gainesville, and now we have plans to ex-
pand out of Florida,” Bento owner Johnny 
Tung said in the release. “Going into the 15th 
year and growing rapidly, we strive to de-liver optimized service and customer experi-ences without sacriﬁ  cing quality.” 
According to the press release, the 15 
Days of Bento will include:
Day 1: Friday, Sept. 15 – Customers who 
spend $20 will receive a free t-shirt while supplies last.
Day 2: Saturday, Sept. 16 – Half off boba 
teas
Day 3: Sunday, Sept. 17 – Free combo up-grades
Day 4: Monday, Sept. 18 – Half off any 
classic roll
Day 5: Tuesday, Sept. 19 – 10 percent of 
all proceeds will go to the Bento foundation (www.bentofoundation.org)
Day 6: Wednesday, Sept. 20 – Half off 
spicy cream chicken rice bowl
Day 7: Thursday, Sept. 21 – Gift card 
giveaway: customers who spend $50 will get a $10 gift card
Day 8: Friday, Sept. 22 – Half off beer and 
sake
Day 9: Saturday, Sept. 23 – 20 percent 
off call-in orders to customers who mention “bento turns 15” at checkoutDay 10: Sunday, Sept. 24 – Free kid’s box 
with the purchase of any entree (roll, bowl or box)
Day 11: Monday, Sept. 25 – One free 
build-a-poke protein upgrade
Day 12: Tuesday, Sept. 26 – BOGO ap-
petizers
Day 13: Wednesday, Sept. 27 – Custom-
ers will get the chance to win a free catered lunch. They must drop a business card to re-ceive instant print coupon for half off cater-ing order (limit $500) and be entered in the drawing.
Day 14: Thursday, Sept. 28 – Bring a 
friend and get BOGO Chicken Teriyaki Rice 
Bowls with a student IDDay 15: Friday, Sept. 29 – The restaurant 
will announce the winner of free Bento for 
a year
Emily Adams, a 19-year-old applied phys-
iology and kinesiology student at UF, has been eating at Bento Café since it opened in 2002, as her family has been attending UF football games her whole life. 
“I’m so happy about being able to walk 
to Bento now, because I live right down the street from the new location,” Adams said. “Even if I have to drive to the Newberry Road Bento for now, I’m deﬁ  nitely going to take advantage of the 15 days of specials.” Bento Café to celebrate with “15 Days of Bento” event
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Bento, a popular quick-serve restuarant, will open its third local location under The Standard within the next few months.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Contributor 
The latest R-rated release 
ﬂ  oating up to box ofﬁ  ce re-
cords is “It,” the horror ﬁ  lm 
closely based on Stephen 
King’s behemoth novel of the same name ﬁ  rst published in 1986. 
The much-anticipated ﬁ  lm 
premiered this past weekend on Friday, Sept. 8 to $123 million in revenue and posi-tive reviews from both fans 
and critics alike, receiving 
an impressive 86 percent on popular website Rotten To-matoes.
Director Andy Muschietti, 
perhaps known most notably for his director role in 2013’s Mama, rarely strays from the source material, skillfully de-
picting the Losers’ Club and 
their average middle school woes: puberty, “Dazed and Confused”-like bullies, and 
… a murderous shape-shift-
ing clown? 
Set in the 1980s, the mov-
ie mainly follows Bill Den-brough (played by Jaeden 
Lieberher), the stuttering 
leader of the group disturbed by the disappearance of his little brother, Georgie (played 
by Jackson Robert Scott).
With the help of his mis-
ﬁ  t friends — a rambling crew 
comprised of a loudmouth, a hypochondriac, an orphan, a 
chubby outcast, a devout Jew 
and a poverty-stricken girl — Bill attempts to track down the supernatural forces tak-
ing place in the small town 
of Derry. 
The kids quickly discover 
more than they bargained for when they meet Penny-
wise the Dancing Clown, a 
malicious, terrifying monster with the ability to turn into the literal manifestation of all 
their fears. 
Sounds exactly like all of 
your childhood nightmares, 
right?
Well, despite the ﬁ  lm’s 
intended terror, “It” more closely resembles a classic ’80s movie than any creature features of recent years. Sur-
prisingly, it sells. 
Perhaps what makes this 
ﬁ  lm work is the individual 
conﬂ  icts and goals of all the main characters; beyond the 
antics of the evil clown, the 
kids are forced to deal with overbearing parents, their own awkwardness and even 
buying tampons. The hu-
man element, as opposed to the paranormal one, is what makes the ﬁ  lm truly tran-scendent.
By no means does this 
discredit the inherent creepi-ness of Pennywise. Actor Bill Skarsgård plays the clown with a chill-inducing child-
ishness. While he is certainly 
no Tim Curry, who brought the titular character to life in a 1990 miniseries adapta-tion, Skarsgård puts forth a 
certain quality that makes 
you unsure whether you’re supposed to giggle or cower in fear — and it’s delightfully 
uncomfortable. 
In fact, all the performanc-
es are consistently strong 
throughout. Most notable is Finn Wolfhard of “Stranger 
Things” fame, who swears 
like a sailor and successful-ly delivers every punchline as the sarcastic best friend 
Richie. 
Even more impressive are 
newcomers Sophia Lillis and 
Jack Dylan Grazer, who bring both depth and comedic per-
spective to the plot, respec-
tively.
The ﬁ  lm does still have 
some glaring issues, though, 
even on top of the inconve-
nient title — try telling any-one you’re seeing “It” and you will inevitably receive a confused stare. 
The small bouts of CGI 
effects are often distracting and cartoonish, though the dynamic camera movements 
help to hide it. 
The story also mistreats 
its token characters. The sole 
black character, Mike, has a reduced role in comparison 
to the other boys, and Bever-
ly Marsh, the only girl of the group, often becomes a dam-sel in distress and sex symbol 
for the overtly misogynistic 
youth. On the bright side, at least the movie doesn’t in-clude the controversial orgy scene from the book (really, 
look it up).
Still, with its ominous 
villain, humor and nostal-
gic pop culture references to 
things like “Street Fighter” 
and “New Kids on the Block,” “It” is an overall fun yet terri-fying watch about friendship and facing your fears. 
As you watch these sev-
en troubled preteens come of age together, it’s hard to deny that plenty of heart is 
what makes “It” stand apart 
from other horror ﬁ  lms often seen in theaters today. 
Instead of relying on 
cheap plots and jump scares, 
the ﬁ  lm invests time in the 
actual lives of each of its characters. 
If you prefer your scary 
movies darker, have no fear: the frights aren’t nearly over yet. 
As the movie slyly likes to 
remind us, this is just chapter 
one. Movie Review: Muschietti’s “It” Doesn’t Clown Around
Photo via Wikipedia. 
Director Andy Muschietti’s 2017 remake of “It” premiered this weekend to positive reviews from fans 
and critics alike.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-22-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-
3901     10-2-17-12-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Cabin in the woods, one room, peaceful, with wildlife and pond. 23 mi east of Gainesville. $500/mo. No smoking/drugs. Call 352-301-4707.          9-8-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR APT AVAILABLE
IN COUNTRY VILLAGEUF students only. Walk, drive or ride to cam-pus. Call 352-373-2700     9-8-17-2-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-15-17-104-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-15-17-
10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, 
pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-13-17-10-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-13-17-7-14
Caregiver for 30-yr-old w/autism.Training provided. Car, clean record, finger-printing required. $15/hr. P/T or F/T, Mon, Tues, Wed.    352-301-4707      9-8-17-5-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
FOCUS GROUP MEMBERSwanted in Gainesville to discuss issues on real legal cases in north FL. Paid $35 for 3 hours of your time. Date of focus groups is Thurs Sept 7th. Morning and afternoon ses-sions available. Call Rita at 800-654-4659 M-F for more info.      9-8-17-5-14
BIG MILL'S CHEESESTEAKS
Now hiring line cooks, sandwich makers & 
counter personnel. PT, flexible hrs. Apply in 
person 2111 NW 13th St.     9-18-17-5-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for highly suc-
cessful Entrepreneur. Very attractive finan-cial package; must have vibrant personality. Housework, errands, office support, plan travel & social functions. Computer literate & willing to travel. Email resume' & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com  9-18-17-4-14
Wanted: Web Designer. Looking for stu-dent to help build a drop shipping web store. Pay $500 to get the site up and run-ning. Gainesville area students only. Text (352)226-6418.     9-15-2-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. TRA VEL: What West and East 
Coast cities does Interstate 10 connect 
in the United States?
2. ADVERTISING: Who was the 
mascot for Kellogg’s Froot Loops cereal?
3. TELEVISION: Who played the 
patriarch of the Clampett family in “The Beverly Hillbillies”?
4. LITERATURE: What 1969 novel 
begins with the line, “All of this hap-pened, more or less”?
5. MUSIC: Where did Puff the Mag-
ic Dragon live in the Peter, Paul and Mary song?
6. MOVIES: What was the last mov-
ie that singer Elvis Presley starred in?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which California city has an area code of 415?
8. GEOLOGY: What are the soft-
est and hardest minerals on the Mohs scale?
9. GAMES: What color is Kentucky 
Avenue in the Monopoly game?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What country 
has the most natural lakes?
Answers
1. Santa Monica, California, and 
Jacksonville, Florida
2. Toucan Sam3. Buddy Ebsen (Jed)4. “Slaughterhouse-Five” (Kurt V on-
negut)
5. The land of Honalee6. “Change of Habit”
7. San Francisco
8. Talc and diamond9. Red10. Canada
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 11, 2017King Features Weekly Service
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      9-8-1-19Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
Complete Home Repairs,Storm Damage Specialists24HR Emergency Services OfferedPreventative Maintenance PackagesRental Maintenance PackagesCall us @ 352-639-3208        9-15-17-3-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Green Angry
Birds animals
5 Salon style
9 “Jabberwocky”
opener
13 Les __-Unis
15 Eye layer
16 “For __ jolly ... ”
17 Name on a two-
liter bottle (and
what’s inside)
19 Double-crossers
20 Like
microwavablemeals
21 Valued caches23 Independently
owned sudsproducer (and
the suds in
question)
26 Parthenon
goddess
29 “How cool!”
30 Length of most
TV dramas
31 WWI battleship
Graf __
33 Kin by marriage
37 CIO partner
38 Where Starbucks
began (and a
product itpopularized)
40 __ snail’s pace41 Note above A
43 Snoop (around)
44 Blockage45 Slangy “It’s cool”47 Currently
combusting
49 Pepperidge 
Farm treat 
(and its ideal
companion)
53 Novelist Waugh
54 Scolds harshly
58 Jones with a
locker
59 What’s clued in
parentheses foreach of four
answers, andfound in
corresponding
sets of puzzle
circles
62 Don Juan’s
mother
63 Just
64 __ protector
65 Give a darn
66 Horseshoes turn
67 Dijon dadDOWN
1 Cop’s quarry
2 “Like __ lump ... ”3 Marvin of Motown
4 Speech
therapist’s
challenge
5 More virtuous6 President
Morales of Bolivia
7 DVR “back up”
button
8 Chanted word9 Add, as a shrimp
to the barbie
10 Go this way and
that
11 Autumn bloom12 Flip14 “‘And hast thou
__ theJabberwock?’”
18 Music box?22 Deal with, as
loose laces
24 “Almost there!”25 Borscht veggies26 Quaker captain
of literature
27 Fashionable Brit
28 Ship frame
32 Freak out34 2016 Best
Picture nominee“__ Land”35 All-inclusive36 Salary38 Like a path that’s
cobbledtogether?
39 Allowed to get out
42 Examine in detail
44 Go from cloudy
to fair
46 Wisecrack
48 Tweeters49 Physician at the
front50 The first Mrs.
Trump
51 Prying tool
52 Acts like a good
dog
55 Lose steam
56 Elec. or mech.
expert
57 __-Ball: arcade
game
60 Suffix with
concert
61 Big tee sizes
By Adam T. Cobb©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/13/1709/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 End with force
8 Percussion
instrument
15 Contemporary of
Plácido
16 Went deep17 Agitated18 Like the flame at
Graceland
19 Singing voice,
informally
20 Workout spot
22 Ax
23 Quick-footed
24 “I’m amazed!”
25 Springfield bar
26 Traditional
March 14
servings
27 Venus, when
appearing as the
morning star
29 Paradise in “On
the Road”
30 Minor
employment
needs, in someplaces
34 Longtime NBC
hit
35 Blow away36 Pittsburgh’s __
Park
37 Thanksgiving,
e.g.: Abbr.
38 Helpful program
for frequent fliers
41 Give under
pressure
42 Joan of Arc, for
one
43 Fill up44 Close buds46 Hardly fresh47 Father’s
ceremony
48 The first “A” in
A.A. Milne
49 Great Plains st.50 Maestro Doráti
52 Trattoria staple
54 Theater
originally lit with
oil lamps
56 Enter covertly57 Self-gratifying
pursuit
58 Picking up59 Law groupsDOWN
1 Space for a ship
2 They started the
Arab Spring
3 Like Pentatonix
performances
4 Unlikely
GoFundMesupporters
5 One taking a 
fall
6 Table for __7 “Way to go!”8 Dancers seen in
strips?
9 Little bit
10 Fr. title11 Put on12 Jack’s links rival
13 Almost reaches
14 Like some
chatter
21 Ridicule25 Pharmaceutical
giant
26 Whisper from a
cheater, maybe
27 Decrease28 Place for the
undecided?
30 Hawked stuff31 “Good first step”32 “Not true!”
33 Knight who 
co-founded
Death Row
Records
39 Impostors
40 Barrier for
Sisyphus
43 Safe havens
44 Play loudly
45 “Ungainly fowl”
of poetry47 __ jar
48 Lob paths
49 Lena of “The
Unbearable
Lightness of
Being”
51 Napkin 
holders?
53 Coty subsidiary
that makes nail
polish
55 Brandy statistic
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/09/1709/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Boat part
1.  Reunite5.  Lemon ____
2.  Fade away6.  Soak
3.  Put in motion 7.  Order, demand
4.  Gobi ____UDRERD
NEJORICEIJU
EOSDU
DDWNELI
UTXECEESHETBE
RSTEDEANSWERS: 1A-Rudder  5A-Juice  6A-Douse  7A-Behest
1D-Rejoin  2D-Dwindle  3D-Execute  4D-Desert  B-Judi Dench9-13-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: In 2005, this actress was voted “Best British 
Actress of All Time” in a poll for Sky TV.
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida football drops two spots in AP Poll
While the Gators game against Northern Colorado was canceled last week, 
Florida remains in the AP T op 25 as the No. 24 team in the nation. UF and No. 11 Florida State are the only ranked teams without a win.Senior Alejandro T osti  earns 
ﬁ  rst place in the UF men's golf team's ﬁ  rst tournament of the fall season. Read the story, pg. 15.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
For the ﬁ  rst time since 1980, Florida enters Week 3 of the football season without having played in Gainesville. While recovery efforts for Hurricane Irma threatened to move Saturday's game away from UF, the SEC announced Tuesday the Gators will host the game as planned.
DESPITE IRMA RECOVERY, 
SEC SAYS FLORIDA CAN HOST 
TENNESSEE ON SATURDAY.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After canceling its home opener last 
Saturday due to Hurricane Irma, the 
Florida football team will host Tennessee this weekend as scheduled, the SEC an-nounced on Tuesday.
Ofﬁ  cials from Florida, Tennessee and 
the SEC agreed that the game, which will be played on Saturday at 3:30 p.m., won’t be impacted by any aftereffects from the storm.
“The University of Florida has been 
diligent in assessing the impact of Hur-ricane Irma on the Gainesville commu-nity and has made a thoughtful deci-
sion in moving forward with the game,” 
SEC Commissioner Greg Sankey said in a release. “We appreciate the commu-nication, coordination and cooperation among the many agencies and groups necessary to produce a game in a safe environment.”
Florida announced last Thursday that 
its game against Northern Colorado was 
canceled due to Hurricane Irma, citing 
safety concerns. After the hurricane had passed through Florida, questions arose about where and if Saturday’s game against Tennessee could be played, with multiple reports pointing to a possible matchup in Atlanta.
On Tuesday, Florida Athletic Director 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After Week 1 of the NFL's regular 
season, many former Gators had huge 
performances for their respective profes-
sional teams. Here’s a look at how some of those players did this weekend in this edition of Gators in the NFL:
Defensive takeover:While many former Gators defenders 
had standout showings to start the sea-son, none were as noticeable as Detroit Lions linebacker Jarrad Davis in his NFL 
debut.
Davis led the team with nine tackles, 
all of which were solo, and recovered a fumble in the Lions’ 35-23 win over the 
Arizona Cardinals.
Atlanta Falcons defensive back Brian 
Poole recorded a team-high-tying seven tackles in Sunday’s 23-17 win against the Chicago Bears. Poole also sacked 
Bears’ quarterback Mike Glennon in 
the victory. His teammate, safety Keanu Neal, made ﬁ  ve tackles, four solo, in the win, as well.
In the Indianapolis Colts' 46-9 loss to 
the Los Angeles Rams, linebackers Jon 
Bostic and Antonio Morrison provided 
bright spots in the Colts' blowout defeat. Bostic was second on the team with sev-
en tackles (ﬁ  ve solo) with one of his be-
ing an assisted tackle for a loss on Rams running back Todd Gurley, while Mor-rison recorded four tackles (three solo). 
New York Jets safety Marcus Maye 
made seven tackles (four solo, three as-sisted) in his NFL debut in a 21-12 loss 
against the Buffalo Bills, and Oakland 
Raiders defensive back Reggie Nelson had eight tackles (ﬁ  ve solo, three assist-
ed) and a pass breakup in the Raiders’ 
26-16 win against the Tennessee Titans.
New Orleans linebacker Alex Anza-
lone also had a strong debut this week. In Monday night’s 29-19 loss to the Min-nesota Vikings, Anzalone made two solo 
tackles — including one on former FSU 
running back Dalvin Cook — and al-lowed two catches for seven yards in his 
zone of coverage.Lions' Davis shines in debut 
and other Gators in the NFLWeek 1 of the 2017 NFL regu-
lar season came and went this past 
weekend, and boy do I have a pair of ﬁ  ery, red-hot takes to pass on to you.
These statements are not predic-
tions: They are indisputable, incon-testable, undeniable declarations of fact. Mark my words, there is no question these two things will hap-pen on gridiron this fall. So sit back and get ready because I’m about to lay down some truth.
1) Alex Smith will lead the Chiefs to the 
Super Bowl:
Kansas City quarterback Alex Smith played 
absolutely out of his mind last Thursday night against the New England Patriots.
The former No.1 overall pick completed 28-
of-35 passes for 368 yards, four touchdowns and zero interceptions, by far one of the best perfor-mances of his career.
Phrases such as “game manager” and “draft 
bust” have been synonymous with Smith throughout his 11-year NFL tenure. He’s only thrown for 3500 yards in a season once before and has never led his team to the Super Bowl.
So what’s so different about 2017? His arse-
nal of weapons is the best he’s ever had.Kareem Hunt, a 22-year-old 
rookie running back from the Uni-versity of Toledo, scorched the Patriots last week with 246 all-pur-pose yards and three touchdowns.
Tyreek Hill and De’Anthony 
Thomas are as speedy and agile a duo of receivers as you’ll ﬁ  nd across the league, and Travis Kelce has developed into one of the most athletic tight ends in all of profes-sional football.
With the playmakers he has at his disposal, 
Smith is bound to have a tremendous year. So 
great, in fact, that he’ll take them to the Super 
Bowl.
Just wait. It’ll happen. Trust me. 2) The Cleveland Browns are going to end 
their 14-year playoff drought:
To the people of Cleveland, you have suf-
fered and agonized long enough. The time has ﬁ  nally come.
After 14 long, embarrasing years, the Browns 
are ready to head back to the playoffs.
Former Notre Dame gunslinger DeShone Kiz-
er is Cleveland’s new starting quarterback, one of the more talented prospects to come through Two smoking hot takes from NFL Week 1You're Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixon
SEE GATORS,  PAGE 16
 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Gators plan to return to the Swamp 
against Tennessee on SaturdayHOME SWEET HOMEWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
NOTICE
APPLICATION FOR
CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TO THE
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
PLANNING ORGANIZATION FOR THE
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED AREA
   The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area invites interested persons to apply for its Citizens Advisory Committee. The Citizens Advisory Committee reacts to planning proposals and provides comments with respect 
to the concerns of various segments of the population in regard to 
their transportation needs. The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area has also outlined additional functions of the Citizens Advisory Committee as defined in its bylaws. Citizens Advisory Committee members usually serve a threeyear term.   At its October 30, 2017 meeting, the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area will make five appointments to fill vacancies on its Citizens Advisory 
Committee.
   The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, composed of the Mayor and six City of Gainesville Commissioners and the five Alachua County Commissioners, is responsible for the continuing, cooperative and comprehensive transportation planning program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.   Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age disability, familial status, religious status, 
marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity. 
   Applications and/or additional information may be obtained by writing or calling: Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, 2009 NW 67 Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653; telephone 352.955.2200; or from its website at www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo. Applications must be received no later than Monday, October 16, 2017.NOTICE
APPLICATION FOR
BICYCLE / PEDESTRIAN ADVISORY 
BOARD
   The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area invites interested persons to apply for its Bicycle/Pedestrian Advisory Board. The Bicycle/ Pedestrian Advisory Board provides advice to the Gainesville City Commission, Alachua County Commission and Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area on bicycle and pedestrian related matters.   The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, composed of the Mayor and six City of Gainesville Commissioners and the five Alachua County Commissioners, is responsible for the continuing, cooperative and comprehensive transportation planning program for the Gainesville Metropolitan Area.   Applications and additional information may be obtained by writing or calling: North Central Florida Regional Planning Council, 2009 NW 67th Place Gainesville, Florida 32653; telephone 352.955.2200; or from the following website at www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo. Applications must be received no later than Monday, October 16, 2017
.
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and change a life, starting with your own.Call 1-800-RED-CROSSor visit  redcross.org
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
As the 2017-18 campaign 
began on Friday for the Florida  
men’s golf team, the expecta-
tion for senior Alejandro Tosti, 
the defending SEC champion, was to be nothing short of ex-ceptional.
Tosti, a senior from Rosa-
rio, Argentina, looked the part this weekend as he soared to 
a tournament-best score of 11 
under at the Carpet Capital In-vitational in Dalton, Georgia, claiming the year’s ﬁ  rst indi-vidual victory on Sunday.
A strong performance from 
Tosti in the season-opening tournament did not go un-noticed by fourth-year head 
coach J.C. Deacon, who said 
the golfer’s outing was impres-sive and showed improvement.
“Coming off of a summer 
that did not live up to Alejan-
dro’s high standards, he has 
come back to school more fo-cused and dedicated than I’ve ever seen him,” Deacon said in 
a release.
“His sensational perfor-
mance this week was a product 
of hard work, discipline and 
greatly improved emotional 
control. Every area of his game was at an elite level this week.” 
Although he was the only Gator golfer to ﬁ  nish below par this weekend, his victory was enough to put the Gators in a tie for ﬁ  fth place overall with 
Tennessee.
Florida sat in ﬁ  rst place of 
the competition after Day 2, 
but dropped four strokes on Sunday in the ﬁ  nal round of 
action.
In order for the Gators to 
improve moving forward, 
they’ll need more consistent 
performances from members of 
the team beyond Tosti.
Chris Nido and Jorge Gar-
cia ﬁ  nished the tournament tied for 34th place at 4 over, 
Gordon Neale ﬁ  nished tied for 
41st place at 5 over and John Axelsen ﬁ  nished tied for 48th place at 7 over. 
While the Gators ultimately 
ﬁ  nished behind Georgia Tech, Alabama, Auburn and LSU, they did manage to do so while starting two true freshmen 
in the 18-year-old Nido and 
19-year-old Axelsen.
“This is deﬁ  nitely one of the 
stronger ﬁ  elds of the fall sea-
son in college golf,” Deacon 
said.
“Ale’s win goes to show you 
how truly special of a player he can be.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgTosti looking like a leader after season-opening winMEN’S GOLF
Alligator File Photo
Alejandro T osti began his senior season for the UF men’s golf team by winning the Carpet Capital Invitational 
in Dalton, Georgia, over the weekend after shooting 11 under. As a team, Florida tied for ﬁ  fth place.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
Scott Stricklin said ofﬁ  cials 
assessed the damage from the storm and determined Saturday’s game can be safely played in Gainesville.
“There has been a tremendous 
amount of cooperation between local authorities, the Southeastern Conference and the Tennessee athletic program throughout this process and we are grateful for these strong partnerships,” Strick-
lin said in a statement.
Florida added that it expects 
storm cleanup to continue through 
the weekend, and that there will likely be increased trafﬁ  c for Sat-urday’s game. To help, University of Tennessee campus police are expected to travel to Gainesville for the game, according to reports, and UF encouraged fans to arrive to the stadium 30 minutes earlier than normal. 
According to the Gainesville 
Sun’s Kevin Brockway, Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell sup-ports the game being played in Gainesville and will have ofﬁ  cers available.
In addition, Florida announced 
on Monday that none of its stu-dent athletes were harmed by Hurricane Irma, and there was no major damages to any of its ath-
letic facilities.
“While we know how impor-
tant it is for this campus and the 
Gainesville community to host a game, our thoughts and prayers continue to be with those that have been impacted by the storm, and we are thankful for the sup-port Floridians have received dur-
ing this time,” Stricklin said.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UF expects increased traic SaturdayFinding the end zone:
A couple of former Gators 
scored touchdowns in the ﬁ  rst week of the season.
New England Patriots 
running back Mike Gillislee made a statement in the Pa-
triots’ 42-27 loss to the Kan-
sas City Chiefs.
Gillislee found the end 
zone three times on Thurs-
day and ran for 45 yards on 
15 carries. He split carries 
with James White and seems to be New England’s main 
option at running back. 
While Gillislee may have 
been the only Gator to score 
an offensive touchdown, he wasn’t the only one to get into the end zone.
In the Jacksonville Jag-
uars' 29-7 win against the Houston Texans, defensive 
end Dante Fowler Jr. recov-
ered a fumble and returned it 
53 yards in the second quar-
ter to put the Jaguars ahead by 19. One quarter later, he forced a fumble from Texans 
rookie quarterback Deshaun 
Watson. Fowler Jr. ﬁ  nished 
the game with three solo tackles, two for a loss, and a 
sack.
Fowler Jr. is in his third 
season in the league, and his 
second year playing after he  
tore his ACL as a rookie in 
the summer of 2015. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGATORS,  from pg. 14Fowler Jr. forced one fumble and recovered another
the organization in over a 
decade.
Surrounding him on of-
fense are capable receiv-ers in Corey Coleman and 
Kenny Britt and proﬁ  cient running backs in Isaiah 
Crowell and Duke John-son Jr.
The strength of this 
football team, however, could be its defense.
Led by linebacker 
Christian Kirksey and safety Jabrill Peppers, the Browns only allowed 14 points to a star-studded Steelers’ scoring attack on 
Sunday.
With defensive end 
Myles Garrett, the No. 1 
overall pick in this sum-mer’s NFL draft, expected to join the team later this season, as well, Cleveland will become one of the more daunting defenses 
the league has to offer 
come playoff time.
Take all of that into 
account and you have a sureﬁ  re AFC wild-card team on your hands.Believe me. I know 
these things.
Dylan Dixon is the as-
sistant sports editor of the 
Alligator. Look out for his next column on Sept. 21. Contact him at ddixon@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14The Associated Press
Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end Dante Fowler Jr. forces a fumble from Houston T exans quarterback Deshaun Watson on Sunday in Houston.
THIS WEEK IN 
UF SPORTS
THURSDAY
• Soccer vs Mississippi, 7 p.m., SEC 
Network
FRIDAY
• Volleyball vs Florida A&M, noon, SEC Network +
• Volleyball vs Northern Kentucky, 
7 p.m., SEC Network +
• Women's tennis vs Hall of Fame/
ITA Grass Court Invitational in 
Newport, Rhode Island, All Day
• Women's tennis vs USTA Bahama 
Invite in Nassau, Bahamas, All Day
SATURDAY
• Football vs T ennessee, 3:30 p.m., 
CBS
• Volleyball vs Lipscomb, 7 p.m., 
SEC Network +
• Women's tennis vs Hall of Fame/
ITA Grass Court Invitational in 
Newport, Rhode Island, All Day
• Women's tennis vs USTA Bahama 
Invite in Nassau, Bahamas All Day
SUNDAY
• Soccer at Iowa State, noon
• Women's tennis vs Hall of Fame/
ITA Grass Court Invitational in Newport, Rhode Island, All Day
• Women's tennis vs USTA Bahama 
Invite in Nassau, Bahamas All Day