We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 20 MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Bring back the lobsters  
UF IFAS is trying to restore lobster traps in Florida Keys, pg. 5. 
New study abroad program 
UF students can now study in Sorrento, Italy, pg. 5.Struggles at QB becoming a trend 
for Gators 
Our columnist argues that UF’s offense has been cursed since Tim T ebow. Read the column, pg. 14. UF 16 LSU 17
FOOTBALL
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
 
The ball was tilted, sure. Leaning slightly to 
the left. The hold was a bit awkward, and the 
kick could have been straighter, and the score could have been different. But they weren’t. 
And so, late on Saturday afternoon, Eddy 
Pineiro’s kick sailed left of the goal posts. Whether it was his fault or the place holder’s fault didn’t seem to matter to Khairi Clark.
After the game, the defensive lineman walked into Florida’s locker room and found it quiet. There was no talk of a missed extra point. Just silence.
“LSU?” Clark said after the game, almost in 
disbelief, his voice slightly more hushed than usual. “We never want to lose to them.”
Never, Clark said, but especially after Flor-
ida came so close to winning, engineering a 13-0 scoring run beginning at the 7:39 mark in the third quarter. Especially after Florida’s de-fense forced three LSU punts in the ﬁ  nal quar-ter, holding the Tigers scoreless to give UF’s offense a sliver of hope. And especially after Florida took possession of the ball with about four minutes left deep in its own territory, an opportunity to win the game and keep an otherwise sweet Homecoming weekend from turning sour. 
Instead, on fourth-and-3 from UF’s own 25-
yard line, quarterback Feleipe Franks couldn’t quite ﬁ  t the pass between two defenders and into Brandon Powell’s hands. It was swatted down by LSU linebacker Devin White, and the Gators (3-2, 3-1 SEC) lost 17-16 to the Tigers (4-2, 1-1 SEC), losing their top-25 ranking for the ﬁ  rst time this season.
“It hurts. Guys are hurting in that locker 
room,” coach Jim McElwain said. “And they should hurt.”
But the hurt wasn’t just emotional. It took a 
physical form, too. Florida’s star receiver, Ty-rie Cleveland, had already been ruled out be-fore Saturday’s game with a high-ankle sprain, and after the loss, McElwain could only sigh as he began to read from his extensive injury list: 
WAKE-UP CALL : Florida forced to re-evaluate after loss
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Rapper Snoop Dogg smokes on stage while wearing a Gators jersey at Gator Growl on Flavet Field.  
Check out the UF Homecoming photo story on pgs. 8 and 9. 
HE WAS PAID $150,000.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
As Snoop Dogg took the stage of 
Gator Growl at about 8:40 p.m., a plume of marijuana smoke engulfed the audience.
To the surprise of some audience 
members and Millie Llanes, the ex-ecutive producer of Gator Growl, Snoop Dogg lit something on stage and smoked throughout the entire performance.
“I can’t comment on anything 
about Snoop Dogg,” Llanes said. “His performance, I thought, was amazing. I can’t comment on any-thing that he had or anything else.”
Other Gator Growl organizers 
and police ofﬁ  cers didn’t know what Snoop Dogg was smoking on stage and said it may have been a cigar or cigarette.Toward the end of the show, 
Snoop Dogg shouted, “Anyone want 
to smoke with the Dogg tonight?”
Before he concluded with 
“Young, Wild & Free,” Snoop Dogg 
asked audience members to put their lighters and their phones in the air and sing with him. 
Snoop Dogg was paid $130,000, 
and Daya was paid $50,000, wrote Student Government Productions Chairman Alex DesRosiers in an 
email. 
This year’s Gator Growl and all 
other Homecoming activities, in-
cluding the pageant, Soulfest and the Homecoming Parade cost about $500,000 to produce, Llanes said.
About 14,700 tickets were sold 
for this year’s Gator Growl com-pared to just under 11,000 last year, Llanes said.
In addition to the various per-
formances, Tim Tebow also made Snoop Dogg lights up 
the joint at Gator GrowlSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
By Romy Ellenbogen, Christina 
Morales and Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writers
About two weeks before white supremacist 
Richard Spencer is set to speak at UF, local anti-
fascist protesters spoke out against Spencer’s ideals and those who work with him.
About 15 people gathered Friday afternoon to protest at the law ofﬁ  ce of Gary Edinger, a Gainesville-based attorney who represented Spencer’s group, the National Policy Institute, according to the Orlando Sentinel. Protesters, who were members of Gainesville Antifascists, held signs saying, “Fight Fascism” and “No Na-zis at UF.”
Al Gadze, a member of the group, said Ed-
inger should not have represented someone 
with Spencer’s ideals.“No one bullied (Edinger) into representing 
Richard Spencer,” Gadze said. “And our prima-
ry disagreement is with Richard Spencer, who is a self-declared national socialist, which the shortened term is Nazi.”
Gadze said UF’s response to Spencer was 
weak, and UF President Kent Fuchs chose to stick with his paycheck, which is $860,000 a year, instead of morality.
“I think President Fuchs suffers from moral dwarﬁ  sm,” the 46-year-old said.
In various emails to UF students, Fuchs de-
nounced Spencer and said his ideals do not re-ﬂ  ect UF’s values. 
Spencer will pay $10,564 to rent space in 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. UF and other groups, like University Police and Gainesville Police, will spend about $500,000 on security, according to Alligator archives.
UF, Gainesville react to Richard Spencer conﬁ  rmationSEE GATOR GROWL,  PAGE 4
SEE SPENCER,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 20
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  89° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply Now for 2018-2019 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 FAFSA is now available. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to re-
ceive the results of your 2018-
2019 FAFSA from the federal 
processor is Dec. 15. Apply 
well before the deadline to ensure the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to 
UF Student Financial Affairs. 
Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served ba-sis, so apply as early as pos-
sible to be considered for the 
most and best aid. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser at 
sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free 
to attend and open to the pub-
lic. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org.
English and citizenship class-
esThe Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program 
offers free English and citi-
zenship classes at the Alachua County Library District 
Millhopper Branch Library, 
located at 3145 NW 43rd St. English classes will be Tuesday evenings from  6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 
14. Citizenship classes will 
be Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more information 
or to register, visit latinawom-
ensleague.org or email info@latinawomensleague.org.
Stand-up comedy at Rockeys 
Dueling Piano BarRockeys Dueling Piano Bar, located at 112 S. Main St., hosts live stand-up com-
edy and drink specials every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. 
to 10:30 p.m. A local come-dian will start the show, and open-mic will be available af-
ter the main show. The price 
is $5 per person. 
The Larry Stephenson Band 
live
The Larry Stephenson Band, 
an award-winning bluegrass group, will perform at the Actors’ Warehouse, located at 
619 NE First St., on Thursday 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. The event is for all ages and is $20 per person.
Film under the stars
The UF School of Art + Art History will screen the mov-ie “Dangerous Liaisons” on 
Thursday at 8 p.m. The event 
will be held in the Fine Arts Plaza, located at 1370 Inner Road, and is part of the Fall 2017 Films Under the Stars 
series. The event is free and 
open to the public. People may bring blankets, chairs, pets and family members. If 
there is inclement weather, 
the film will be held in the Fine Arts Building D, Room 329.
Pop-up Culture 
Pop-up Culture is part of UF's celebration of National Arts and Humanities Month. 
The event will be held on 
the Plaza of the Americas on Friday from 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. An array of activities will be held to celebrate the arts 
and humanities at UF. From 
musical performances to po-etry readings and from danc-ing to opportunities to paint, 
there’s something for every-
one. To learn more, visit arts.ufl.edu/ahmonth. Various moments of culture are all aimed to increase awareness, 
appreciation and excitement 
for the arts and humanities at UF. The event will be free and open to the public. 
Tango classes
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. 
Whether you’re a beginner or 
a seasoned dancer, everyone is welcome. No experience, partner or special shoes are 
required. Just bring a thick pair of socks. Beginner-level 
lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., followed by ad-vanced-level lessons at 7:15 
pm. Classes are held at the 
Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Find the UF Argentine Tango Club on Facebook for more details.
Fall Day of Service
The David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and 
Service is holding a Fall Day 
of Service on Oct. 21. Join sev-eral hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service for a wide variety of nonprof-
its, including Keep Alachua 
Beautiful, Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching 
Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The 
Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more in-formation, call 352-392-1215, email cls@leadershipandser-
vice.ufl.edu or visit bit.ly/
daysofservice.
GLAM Craft Show accepting 
applicationsDo you make cool stuff? Gainesville’s largest indepen-dent craft show is looking for artists and crafters who 
make unique, giftable goods 
for the upcoming Dec. 3 holi-day shopping event at First Magnitude Brewing Company. 
Apply online by Nov. 1 at 
glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
YOUR CHOICE
• Bacon, Egg & Cheese Biscuit
• Sausage & Egg Biscuit
• County Ham Biscuit
• Steak Biscuit
Combos served with  1 fixin’ & a drink.
LIMITED TIME ONLY
We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!BREAKFAST COMBOS
ALL DAY, EVERY DAY!
3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com
$4
EACH
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.net
Pick-up your
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Students march for the rights of elephants and rhinos in Asia at Depot Park on Sunday 
afternoon.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
To Ron Chandler, the Garo 
Hills in India are the most beauti-
ful place on earth. 
“You just can’t even believe 
you’re even on this planet,” he 
said. “It’s just magniﬁ  cent.”
One of the largest remaining 
herds of Asian elephants lives there, said Chandler, the presi-dent and co-founder of Conser-
vation Initiative for the Asian 
Elephant. He and about 40 oth-
ers marched donning elephant 
hats and shirts, waving signs and 
chanting about elephant preser-
vation at Depot Park on Sunday at 1 p.m.
The organization sold elephant 
T-shirts and wristbands for dis-
counted beer at First Magnitude Brewing Company to generate 
funding, although the third annu-
al event was really meant to raise 
awareness, Chandler said.
“It feels really good to do 
something with other people for 
elephants,” Chandler said. 
Poaching and uncontrolled ur-
ban sprawl has endangered Asian elephants, Chandler said. He also 
said the harvesting of palm oil, 
which is used in food, cosmet-ics and biodiesel products, is the  
worst killer of Asian elephants. 
Sierra Orme, 27, marched 
around the park carrying a home-
made sign with a Dr. Seuss quote. 
“I meant what I said and I 
said what I meant, an elephant 
is faithful 100 percent,” her sign read.
The Santa Fe College wildlife 
ecology and conservation senior 
said she fears if these large mam-mals go extinct, there could be 
consequences for the environ-
ment.
“If there aren’t events like 
these, how are children and even 
adults aware of problems other 
than where you live?” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgThird march for elephant preservation held at Depot Park
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Friends Keisha Roberts and Staci Bertrand participated in the competition for 
the best “save the elephant and rhino” chant or song. T ogether, they sang their protest song as their children joined them.
The march raised awareness for the endangered Asian elephant4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017THE BAR GAVE A $50 
GIFT CERTIFICATE TO 
THE WINNER OF THE 
COSTUME CONTEST.
By Stephanie Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sporting matching bunny ears, 
Madi Smith and Amielia Holt cel-
ebrated the life of the founder of 
Playboy, Hugh Hefner, on Satur-day.
The Bank Bar & Lounge, located 
at 22 W. University Ave., offered free cover to the first 50 people 
who came to the bar dressed as He-
fner or a Playboy bunny between 10 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. Participants 
were also entered into a contest 
for a $50 gift certificate to the bar, which a woman wearing a black 
bustier won.
Smith, a Santa Fe College bio-
medical sciences sophomore, said she had watched a documentary about Hefner before he died Sept. 27 and thought he had a positive 
contribution to society.
“I was a little upset (when I 
learned he passed) because I had just learned so much about him and seen that he was more of a 
feminist,” Smith said.
Holt, a Santa Fe College nursing 
sophomore, said Hefner used his business to put women on a ped-
estal.
“He cherished women rather 
than shaming them,” Holt said.
The nightclub’s co-owner, 
Richard Thomas-Pusateri, 41, es-
timated about 12 people wore 
Hefner-themed costumes to the bar Saturday night. He said Hefner in-
fluenced a sexual revolution.
“If anybody can go from where 
he started to where he finished, that is the epitome of the Ameri-
can dream,” Thomas-Pusateri said. “Being able to make anything hap-
pen in this world, to create what he 
created, is amazing.”Bar celebrates late Play-
boy founder Hugh Hefner
a surprise appearance at this 
year’s Gator Growl.
“We got a call 10 minutes 
before the show that he wanted 
to come on stage, and we were able to make it happen,” Llanes said. “That was probably the only thing that hadn’t been planned months in advance.”
This year’s ‘90s theme in
-
spired Gator Growl producers to seek out Snoop Dogg as their top choice. It was also  impor
-
tant for producers to have a female singer, so they incorpo
-
rated Daya, Llanes said.
Daya took the stage at Gator 
Growl at about 7:25 p.m. The crowd sang along to some of her biggest hits like “Feel Good,” “Don’t Let Me Down” 
and “Sit Still, Look Pretty.”
Erin Tammi and Sofia Mora, 
UF freshmen, were excited to 
attend their first Gator Growl together as roommates and friends since middle school. Both said they were looking forward to hearing Daya per
-
form.
“I had never really been to a 
concert before, so I didn’t know what to expect,” said Tammi, an 18-year-old UF health sci
-
ence freshman. “It was just fun with everyone being together while being college students.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgGATOR GROWL,  from pg. 1Tebow also appearedT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
CRAZY FOR CHOCOLATE
Customers wait in a line extending out the door of Sweet Dreams Homemade Ice Cream of Gainesville, located at 3437 W. University Ave., for chocolate night. The event featured 30 different homemade chocolate flavors as well as live music outside the shop from the Gainesville Big Band.
Gene Anderson, a 54-year-old reverend, 
was surprised about how expensive security 
would be. He said Spencer’s ideas, and the ideas of other white supremacists, are evil.
“I almost feel like having to explain why 
they are wrong shouldn’t be necessary,” he said. “Sometimes wrong is wrong.”
Student group No Nazis at UF plans to 
hold protests ahead and during Spencer’s speech at the Phillips Center on Oct. 19. 
The student group is organizing a march 
from the intersection of Southwest 34th Street and Southwest 20th Avenue to the Phillips Center at noon the day of Spencer’s 
visit, said a spokesperson from No Nazis at 
UF, who asked to remain anonymous for their safety. 
The demonstration is expected to be split into a red zone and a green zone. The red zone is expected to be where protesters will have close contact with confrontation and the green zone will be where they will not have close contact. 
“There will be lines of people at the front 
and on the sides (of the march) as well that will likely be the red zone. The green zone will likely be the inside and the back,” the spokesperson said.  
No Nazis at UF will host a sign-making 
event at the Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., on Saturday at 1 p.m. in preparation for the day of Spencer’s speech. The student group is also planning a teach-in on free speech. A date has yet to be set for this event. 
No Nazis at UF also launched an online 
petition, which received 1,419 signatures, as of press time, with student groups Chis-
pas and Young Democratic Socialists of America.
“Its goal is to put more pressure on 
Fuchs and the Board of Trustees to under-
stand that this is something that is not sup-
ported by anyone really,” the spokesperson said. 
Bianca Gavaller felt frustrated when she 
heard Spencer was coming to UF. She said his white supremacist views don’t sit well with her. 
Gallaver, a 19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore, said she feels it’s his right to speak somewhere, as long as it’s not at the 
university. “I think he has the right to speak 
literally anywhere he wants to,” Gavaller said. “But because (UF’s) an academic in-stitution, then I don’t think he should be al-lowed here.” 
Gavaller plans on protesting, despite 
safety concerns.
“The need to protest would probably 
outweigh the fear of (white nationalists) 
and what they would do,” she said. 
SPENCER,  from pg. 4Spencer is speaking Oct. 19By Sofia Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Josh Pickering and Brandon 
Burns saw the devastation in Puerto 
Rico caused by Hurricane Maria, they knew they wanted to help.
Pickering and Burns, both UF 
medical students, landed in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Friday to deliver 200 water filtration systems. The two will be in Puerto Rico for eight days as they hand out supplies.
“A lot of pathogens in the water 
get into your (gastrointestinal) tract that end up making you more dehy-drated after drinking it,” said Picker-
ing, a Navy veteran. “People are just 
drinking out of streams.”
The two will disperse the filters 
in the city of Caguas and other parts of the central mountain range. They also brought medication for Puerto Rico’s people, many of whom have 
been without water filtration and 
electric power since Hurricane Irma hit the island Sept. 20, he said.
“San Juan is less of a problem 
than other parts,” Pickering said. 
Pickering said they haven’t seen 
any aid trucks in the mountainous regions of the country. Burns, 30, said his wife’s family lives in Caguas, 
Puerto Rico, which inspired him to 
help.
“The people of Puerto Rico are 
not only our fellow citizens, but are our family members as well,” Burns said. “They needed help with basics like food and medicine, and we were fortunate to answer the call.” 
Pickering said the largest dona-tion was from Sawyer Water Filters, which donated $10,000 worth of products.
The filters are tubing that can be 
hooked up to a bucket, which filters water as it goes through, he said.
Other groups donated supplies 
such as a Yeti cooler, various sup-plies from Florida Cracker Kitchen and medication donated from the First Response Training Group. Pick-ering and Burns intend to find local 
clinics to hand off the insulin and 
other medication for people in dire need.
“Those companies made this mis-
sion a reality and so much more ef-fective because we can deliver tangi-ble, life-saving aid to the island along with emotional support,” Pickering said. UF medical students travel to Puerto 
Rico to give water filters, medicine
• Spencer will pay $10,564 to rent space
• UF and other agencies, including 
Gainesville Police and University Police, will pay about $500,000 for security
• Classes will not be canceled
Banned Items for 
Speaking Event
- Backpacks and 
bags
- Masks of any kind- Bicycles or scooters
- Umbrellas
- Amplified sound devices, like 
megaphones 
- Mace- Lighters, torches and open flamesClosed Areas
-Florida Museum of 
Natural History
-Harn Museum of Art
-Southwest 
Recreation Center
-Steinmetz Hall 
-Counseling & 
Wellness Center 
(satellite office will be 
open in Peabody Hall)MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Alexandra Regueiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
The executive director of the American 
Civil Liberties Union of Florida will speak 
at UF today at 6 p.m.
The Bob Graham Center for Public Ser-
vice will host Howard Simon, the execu-
tive director of the Florida ACLU, and Jon 
Mills, a UF law professor and director of the Center for Governmental Responsibil-ity, for a conversation about Florida-based issues. The event will be held in the Pugh Hall Ocora. 
Some of the topics planned include the 
restoration of voting rights for felons, pub-lic schools, immigration, the Constitution 
Revision Commission and LGBTQ+ equal-
ity, said TJ Pyche, the outreach and stu-
dent programs coordinator at the Graham 
Center.“It’s good to get his valuable perspec-
tive,” Pyche said. 
Simon supervises the organization’s 
programs including lobbying, member-
ship, fundraising and public education.
Pyche said all of the topics Simon will 
discuss are things the ACLU and the citi-zens of the state of Florida are dealing with.
Philip Blake Layton, a UF political sci-
ence senior, said he is eager to hear Simon speak about the effort to restore voting 
rights for felons because the ACLU has 
been a major proponent of the issue.
“I expect to receive some expert insight 
on some of the pressing legal issues in the state and our country from both Howard Simon and Jon Mills,” the 23-year-old said. “The Graham Center is consistent on hav-ing exemplary events that highlight impor-tant issues in the state.”Executive director of Florida 
ACLU to speak at UFBy Anna Cappelli
Alligator Contributing Writer
After Hurricane Irma hit Monroe 
County, the Florida Keys Commercial 
Fishermen’s Association struggled to locate and recover their 350,000 missing lobster traps.
The Florida Keys Commercial 
Fishermen’s Association is responsi-ble for 4,500 jobs in Monroe County, making it the second-largest econom-ic engine in the Florida Keys next to tourism, said executive director Bill Kelly. 
Lobster is its principal product. 
As Hurricane Irma developed, Kelly knew they had to be prepared.
To assist in recovery, Kelly de-
vised a four-point plan. The plan includes rapid assessment, recovery, redeployment and reclamation of missing gear. 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences Monroe Extension partnered with the local ﬁ  shermen’s association to help ﬁ  nd the gear.
Shelly Krueger, Florida Sea Grant 
agent for UF/IFAS Extension, con-nected the association with a grant from the National Oceanic and At-mospheric Administration. 
“Whenever there’s a hurricane, 
we know that traps are displaced, but with the winds and size of Irma, the entire county has been affected,” Krueger said.
The grant funded two spotter pi-lots and GPS cameras to help locate the missing traps, Kelly said. Each aircraft covered approximately 2,000 miles over the Keys, and the GPS cameras took about 15,000 photo-graphs.
“Sea Grant/UF will make electron-
ic maps and hard copies available to the industry that we will share with ﬁ  shermen to save countless man-hours and tens of thousands of gal-lons of fuel trying to locate displaced gear,” Kelly wrote in an email.On average, traps moved any-
where from 3.5 to 5 miles on the Florida Bay side of the Keys and 5 to 8 miles on the ocean side, with some traps moving up to 18 miles on the ocean side, Kelly said.
Kelly said Florida Sea Grant and 
UF have been instrumental in help-ing assess where the traps are, which lets ﬁ  shermen recover gear more quickly.
“This is essential in jump-starting 
our local economy,” Kelly said.
IFAS Extension helps Florida Keys lobster industry recover
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cristina Gomez, 6, gazed up at a jar of 
hundreds of seeds Saturday and guessed how many the jar contained.
“Five,” Cristina said.About 40 people, most of whom were 
children, attended the fourth biannual Old Florida Seed and Story Swap at Morningside Nature Center, located at 3540 E. University Ave., at 10 a.m. Working Foods, also known 
as Forage Farm, identiﬁ  ed and provided 
information about the seeds participants brought to the exchange, said Bricky Way, the Living History Farm manager.
Way said the event hosted by the City of 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs department was meant to educate at-tendees about conservation and home gar-dening as well as protect and encourage the dispersion of heritage seeds, which are at 
least ﬁ  ve years old and non-invasive.
Six microscopes displayed seeds includ-
ing lily, rose and sunﬂ  ower seeds. Experts 
explained what to look for when examining a seed and how to identify seeds.
The exchange coincided with the weekly 
Living History Farm. Volunteers at the farm told stories about agricultural life in the 1870s.
The farm has cows, goats, sheep, hogs 
and roosters. Eva Baley, 8, said she and her 3-year-old brother, Chris, have visited the center 17 times. She said she liked the cow and ram. This was the ﬁ  rst time Eva attend-ed the seed exchange.
“I want to get a ton of sunﬂ  ower seeds 
and eat half of them,” she said.Families and gardeners attend local seed exchangeBy Soﬁ  a Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students seeking an immersive Ital-
ian study abroad program now have an ad-ditional location to choose from. 
The UF International Center opened a 
new study abroad program in Sorrento, 
Italy, set to begin Summer 2018 from early 
July to early August.
Paloma Rodriguez, the associate director 
of international studies, wrote in an email that the program will offer six three-cred-it courses including History of the Maﬁ  a: Origins and International Scope, Business in the European Union and Mediterranean Culture and History.
Veronica Paz, an international program 
ambassador, became interested in revisit-ing Sorrento after explaining the program to other students at the Study Abroad Fair. “I am one of the biggest advocates for 
stepping out into the unknown and going to a different country to experience differ-
ent cultures and traditions,” the 19-year-old 
UF international studies sophomore said. 
Rodriguez said she thinks 12 to 15 stu-
dents will attend the trip. The program fees start at $5,778. If students intern in Italy, the program fees will be $6,178. The price includes housing and excursions, Rodri-guez said. 
The program is open to all majors, Ro-
driguez said. To participate, students need to be in good standing and have at least a 2.5 GPA.
Paz has traveled across Europe and 
thinks it makes people more culturally aware.
“I am hoping to gain what I usually 
gain which is lifelong friendships, culture shocks and amazing food,” she said. New study abroad program 
in Italy available to studentsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORWe need to learn to disagree with others eﬀ  ectively
We are living in a time of anger. We’re 
angry at the way the world looks right now. We are angry at each other for making it this way. We all have dif-ferent opinions about why the world 
is the way it is, and we have even more opin-ions about how to ﬁ  x it.
Living in harmony with other people is a 
difﬁ  cult thing to achieve, even though it seems so wonderful. We are obviously nowhere near this right now, and in the meantime, we have to learn how to live in a world where we disagree. Am I saying we should settle and adopt others’ beliefs just so we can get along better? Absolutely not. That would do 
the opposite of help. However, learning to properly dis-
agree is the ﬁ  rst step in achieving this harmony. Even if human nature prevents us from ultimately achieving har-mony, learning to disagree is the ﬁ  rst step to understand-ing each other a little better.
Truthfully, I don’t believe every person with destruc-
tive ideas knows how destructive they are. I think many people who hold these ideas genuinely think their opin-ions are correct and that implementing laws according to 
them would beneﬁ  t our society. However, this does not 
detract from the fact the ideas are destructive. Getting an-gry and attacking others when you disagree with these de-structive thoughts is not a good tactic for helping them see your side of the argument. Yelling and accusing will only make one more attached to their view. It will only make one want to protect themself and their ideas more ﬁ  ercely, ultimately pulling one even farther away from where you think they should be going. When people are attacked, 
they shut down or ﬁ  ght back. Either of these will result 
in a more severe attachment to their ideals and a more intense hatred of what the attacker presents.
Instead, we should try to understand. I know this can 
be extremely difﬁ  cult, especially since there are a lot of wildly unreasonable people out there. I would never say everyone is reasonable, as much as I wish everyone was. Also, I am not suggesting you excuse intolerance or ac-cept pure ignorance as an excuse for another’s opinions. However, you will never know if in-tolerance or ignorance is the reason behind said opinions if you do not at least attempt to under-stand why that person feels that way. If you end 
up realizing that person has no logical thought 
process to back up their belief, that’s ﬁ  ne. At least you tried to understand. This is where you can step in and explain your own ideas. The better job you do, the more likely you are to get through to that person.
On the ﬂ  ipside, instead of getting angry 
when someone asks you to explain your own views or defend your thoughts, simply do just what that someone 
is asking — explain yourself, use evidence, support your 
opinions thoroughly and logically. 
Clearly, if you hold a particular opinion, you think 
you’re right. Tell that person why you think you’re right. Tell them how you reached this conclusion. Often, the process of explaining yourself to another person can be the place where you realize you’re wrong. It is perfectly OK to be wrong, but it is not OK to continue being wrong once you know you are.
What’s more, explaining yourself to another person 
can actually make them realize they agree with you. This level of reasoning, however, is far less likely to happen in the middle of an accusatory screaming match or a passive-aggressive Facebook comment war. If you feel passionate-ly about your opinions—  which you should— being rea-sonable in your arguments is the best way to both protect them and to help others understand you. 
Getting angry is an unreasonable person’s only de-
fense. Don’t buckle just to avoid a ﬁ  ght, but don’t stoop to the level of absurdity people go to when succumbing to anger. You have better, more effective options. Use those instead.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.UF has a serious 
marijuana problem
On Friday night, UF welcomed producer and rapper Snoop Dogg to the stage as he performed at our annual Homecoming event, Gator Growl, on Flavet Field. And, in traditional Snoop Dogg fashion, the man himself had with him what we can only assume was a joint — for 
the record, we’re avoiding the use of “marijuana cigarette” be-cause the word cigarette implies tobacco, not just because we’re hip like that. And let us emphasize, dear reader: A man — a black man, no less — was openly smoking marijuana (we’re gonna make the leap in logic and assume it was marijuana) on a university campus in front of law enforcement. When our re-porter spoke to both law enforcement and Gator Growl ofﬁ  cials, their responses were along the lines of, “Eh, it’s probably just a cigarette.” They all turned the other cheek.
And despite how, in a vacuum, this sounds like a big deal, 
we all just say, “Well, duh. It’s Snoop Dogg. That’s his thing.” And that, dear reader, is a testament to the progress of Snoop Dogg’s movement toward the legalization and normalization of recreational marijuana. A movement, mind you, that includes a pseudo-journalistic, marijuana-centric website called Merry Jane and his own brand of “medical” marijuana called Leafs By Snoop. If you get a chance to visit leafsbysnoop.com, please do. It’s a journey. The man really knows his pot — after all, 
he claims to smoke about 80 joints a day. It seems his forward 
momentum cannot be stopped.
And that’s a big problem for UF. Let’s do some math here.According to a University of Michigan study, one in 17 col-
lege students smoke pot on a near-daily basis, which they de-ﬁ  ne as at least 20 times a month. Now, let’s be generous and assume and equate that to 30 joints a month (because one joint a sitting is never enough for some of you). The UF Student Body is comprised of about 52,000 students, so that’s 3,058 students 
who smoke 30 joints a month, or one joint a day. Actually, let’s 
make that 3,059 — to include UF President Kent Fuchs. If Snoop Dogg smokes 80 joints a day and the UF Student Body smokes 3,059, then it would only take 38 Snoop Doggs to easily outs-moke the entirety of the UF Student Body.
This is an abysmal situation for UF to be in. That is to say, 
we have some serious catching up to do.
It goes without saying that any credible university should be 
out-smoking Snoop Dogg by at least two orders of magnitude, 
not the measly 1.58 we’re at now. If we want to be taken seri-
ously as an academic institution, we need to step up our game.
Luckily, our community has made great strides toward catch-
ing up to Snoop Dogg in recent years. In November, Florida passed Amendment 2, which allowed medical marijuana to be prescribed to those who suffer from cancer, epilepsy, glaucoma, HIV/AIDS, post-traumatic stress disorder, Lou Gehrig’s disease, Crohn’s syndrome, Parkinson’s disease and multiple sclerosis. So, if you know someone who suffers from these diseases but 
can spare a little extra, don’t hesitate to ask for it. Every little 
bit helps.
Also, Alachua County has passed an ordinance that basical-
ly decriminalizes marijuana possession under 20 grams. Even Gainesville Police and Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce are help-ing UF make sure students are doing their part.
So, you’re already smoking your daily blunt. What else can 
you do to help? For one, spread the word. Attend parties and pass around that joint. Always bring a lighter, just in case some-
one forgets. Learn how to roll a joint; turn every social gathering 
into a teaching moment. Get informed. Write a letter to your local congressman. Do some research. Find your local deal-ers, and touch base with them every now and then — let them know you appreciate the work they do. It can go a long way.
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
I don’t like to start a column 
this way, but sometimes we do 
things we don’t like in order to think critically about the world. 
Imagine a large building in 
Gainesville burned down. Imagine 
the ﬁ  re started by accident — a gas 
leak or a candle — but the ﬂ  ames 
raged out of control, and the en-
tire structure came down. In the 24 hours following the ﬁ  re, we learn 
that it rapidly escalated as a result 
of poor building codes, and we probably could have contained the ﬁ  re if it had not 
spread so quickly.
What would we say in this case? I think 
we would all agree: It’s time to talk about those building codes, and it’s time to up-
date them. I think we would say this even 
if no lives were lost. But what if (and this 
is a terrible what if) many residents were 
home when the apartment building burned down? Surely we would mourn, but we 
would be even angrier in this instance than 
in the last. Why was this apartment con-
structed with such shoddy building codes? 
We would push to update those codes even more urgently than before.
This very event happened in June when 
Grenfell Tower, a collection of public hous-ing in west London, came down in a ghast-
ly ﬁ  re thought to have started in a refrig-
erator. The ﬁ  re spread quickly due to the 
materials used in the building’s exterior, 
and at least 80 people lost their lives as 
a result. Immediately, police and journal-ists began investigating to ﬁ  nd out how it 
could have been prevented.
When people lose their lives, we seek 
explanations. When we lost 80 souls in the 
Grenfell Tower ﬁ  re, we demanded (and are still demanding) answers. It’s one way we 
try to honor the lives lost: by making sure 
no one else dies the same way. We don’t 
want to make the same mistakes twice. We 
are not politicizing life or death when we make these efforts, we are trying to help more people 
live.
So why is it that in the 
wake of each mass shooting, 
especially as these shootings 
grow increasingly common 
each year, we are told by pol-
iticians and citizens alike that 
it is too soon to talk about gun policy? Elected ofﬁ  cials 
constantly tell people the vic-
tims of gun violence are in their thoughts 
and prayers, as they should be. I vote for 
particular people because I expect them 
to multitask. You can simultaneously feel the pain in your heart for those who have 
died and act on behalf of future lives. In 
this case, you can advocate for a thorough 
analysis of our current gun laws.
Note at this point, all I have called for is 
a review of the current state of guns in this country. So far, I have not called for the 
taking away of guns, for the repeal of the 
Second Amendment, for anything speciﬁ  c 
at all. So far I am simply asking — more 
like pleading — my friends, family and es-pecially my elected ofﬁ  cials to think about 
how we can better address gun violence in 
the U.S., a nation that somehow prides it-self on being the top in every category, the 
best in all ﬁ  elds, the biggest and the bad-
dest. News ﬂ  ash, America: Gun violence is 
a ﬁ  eld you don’t want to be No. 1 in.
So don’t tell me it’s too soon to talk 
about gun violence and control in this country because I haven’t waited the prop-
er mourning time ﬁ  rst. I am mourning. I 
am thinking. I am wishing. But all of these 
things need one more component if we 
want anything to change — and it’s action.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.I recently wrote a paper for a class 
on the show “Black Mirror,” 
which is a series of futuristic sce-narios featuring the human race. 
All the episodes are different sto-
ries, and they are quite fascinating. In 
the episode “Men Against Fire,” the 
military is hunting creatures called 
roaches. Each military member is in-
grained with a technological implant behind their ear, which allows the in-
dividual to record what they see and 
heightens senses, making it easier to aim and shoot at targets.
The main character is new to the mission of 
hunting roaches, and on his ﬁ  rst mission, he kills a lot of them. The roaches look like white 
zombies, and some civilians will hide them in 
their houses. Those housing the roaches are 
jailed for this, and the military continues to 
hunt. During his hunts, the main character’s 
device gets glitched with a light. After this happens, he starts seeing things differently. 
While he’s hunting, his partner starts shoot-
ing at a human. The main character knocks 
his partner out and helps hide the mother 
and son, but his partner later ﬁ  nds and kills the two. This devastates the main character, 
and he starts screaming, asking why anyone 
would kill people. His partner then looks at him and says, “They’re not people. They’re 
roaches.”
The episode ends with the main character 
in an enclosed, blank room with a military 
psychiatrist. The doctor explains how his de-
vice was messed up but they ﬁ  xed it, so he should continue doing his job without prob-
lems. He is shocked by this and says he knows 
what the military did. He knows that they dis-
guised humans to look like roaches through 
implants so he, and others like him, would kill people for the government. The doctor 
explains these people have bad genetics and 
need to be wiped out.
This episode resonated with me, especially 
after being in the military myself. I looked 
back at experiences when we were taught that 
some people weren’t, in fact, people. But this 
is far from the truth. Even our worst enemies have families and people who 
love them. I’m not saying war is 
always bad. I’m not saying some-times it isn’t necessary. What I’m 
saying is we are taught from a young age some people’s lives are 
more valuable than others when, 
in reality, this isn’t true.
What I ﬁ  nd horrible is our 
society doesn’t value individual life. We lack empathy. We decide 
whose lives are signiﬁ  cant. If we 
don’t like something someone does, we kill 
them. People watch people getting killed and 
don’t think much about it. They don’t think of 
how much that person affected others. Our so-ciety has an incredibly high murder rate, and 
it isn’t getting any better. Even after events 
like our 28th mass shooting in 10 years, the 
killing keeps happening.
The rhetoric we spread affects people. The 
violence on TV affects people. When we teach hate, we will get hate in return. Yes, there are 
different levels, but right now our society has 
spread too much hate. There are comments 
on the internet that consist of questions like, 
“Why couldn’t there be a mass shooting at a Nicki Minaj concert instead? #killtheblacks.” 
We are not only ﬁ  ghting off the evil of some-
one killing innocent humans at a concert, but now we have to ﬁ  ght off the hate of people 
wishing another group had been killed in-
stead.
Lives are grievable, regardless of whether 
they’re the lives of someone you hate. A per-
son you may not care about has someone else who cares about them, just like you. When 
you look at different groups of people with 
which we are at war, most believe they are do-
ing the right thing by killing innocent strang-
ers because that’s what they were taught. If we approach things the same way, if we let 
hate consume us, we will never be able to 
unite as a country and embrace genuine toler-
ance and peace.
A version of this column by Autumn 
Barney originally ran in The Daily Utah We need to stop saying it’s too 
soon to talk about gun controlWe are too numb for deathColumn Column
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgAutumn 
Barney
UWire8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017 MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
CELEBRATING HOMECOMING
The 2017 Homecoming weekend kicked off with the Gator Gallop, a short 2-mile run around UF’s campus, on Friday morning. Afterward, fans lined up along West 
University Avenue to watch the annual UF Homecoming Parade at noon, which included more than 100 different ﬂ  oats. On Friday evening, fans gathered on Flavet Field for performances by rapper Snoop Dogg and singer Daya for Gator Growl. On Saturday, the Florida Gators played the Louisiana State University Tigers for the annual Homecoming football game. TOP LEFT: 
Gainesville’s Outstanding T een, Mikala Williams-Ellrodt, waves to the crowd at UF’s Homecoming Parade.
TOP RIGHT: 
Daya performs at Gator Growl. 
LEFT: 
Levin College of Law shows support for the Gators while riding a working miniature train through UF’s Homecoming Parade.
BELOW: 
The UF Gatorettes lead the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band while twirling batons at UF’s Homecoming Parade.ABOVE:
The sun sets on the crowd during Gator Growl as attendees wait for the show to start.
LEFT:
A young Gators fan takes a swing at a UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band drum during UF’s Homecoming Parade.
BELOW: 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe gives a Gator Chomp during UF’s Homecoming Parade.Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Lawson Nuland / Alligator StaffT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff T aylour Marks / Alligator StaffT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
THE CONFERENCE CALL HELPS 
YOUNGER PATIENTS 
IN TALLAHASSEE.
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pediatric patients no longer have to make 
a six-hour trip from Tallahassee to UF Health 
Shands Hospital to see a physician.
By using telemedicine, a video confer-
ence, Shands physicians are able to conduct visits with patients from miles away, said 
Christopher Jolley, the chief of the division 
of pediatric gastroenterology at Shands. Jol-
ley said certain ofﬁ  ces began using the pro-gram over the summer. 
The telemedicine option is currently 
available at the Children’s Medical Services 
building in Tallahassee, Jolley said.
“It was really an effort to improve patient 
care for this community and be more acces-
sible and more available for the Tallahassee 
community,” Jolley said.
Jolley said it is more cost-effective be-
cause it reduces travel for both families and 
the medical team.
Shands physicians from several speci-
alities make trips to Tallahassee monthly to 
visit with patients, he said. Some subspecial-
ties, such as gastroenterology and hematol-ogy, have already started the telemedicine initiative while others will be joining it soon.
“It’s also important to realize that some 
of these families have children with very complex medical needs, and traveling 2 1/2 hours for them is a lot more detailed and a lot more cumbersome than it would be for other families,” Jolley said.
Previously, telemedicine was limited due 
to the lack of guidelines and lesser technol-ogy, Jolley said. As technology improved and 
it became regulated, the practice spread. 
Telemedicine has been successful at other 
UF Health locations, like in Daytona Beach, 
where it has been used to manage patients 
with diabetes, Jolley said.
UF Health’s goal is to grow the practice 
and make it commonplace, Jolley said.
“Our plan is to expand our availability to 
the Tallahassee community, and telemedi-
cine is just one way of doing this,” Jolley 
said.
Christine Bohling’s 10-year-old son had 
been a patient of Jolley’s for some time. Dur-ing a spring appointment, Jolley asked the 
family if they would be interested in the tele-
medicine option. Bohling said it was a con-
venient option. 
“We would have to go to Gainesville a 
few times a year,” the Tallahassee resident 
said. “It was just really inconvenient travel-
ing all the way to Gainesville and having to 
take off of work.”
Bohling, 31, and her son have participated 
in one telemedicine clinical visit with Jolley 
so far. Bohling said she liked how they were 
still able to have a one-on-one experience 
with the doctor, and nurses were present at 
the hospital in Tallahassee to administer to 
her son.
“Just limiting travel time, which puts a 
stress on (my son), and making it more con-
venient than having to travel Gainesville has really helped,” she said.Shands introduces video calls 
for pediatric patients
THEIR CAMPAIGN IS 
CALLED #UNLITTER.
By Juan Lozano
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Nic Mostyn stitched his natty one-
and-a-half-year-old board shorts back 
to life, he reﬂ  ected on the movement he 
helped found.
Mostyn, a UF civil engineering junior 
and the treasurer of UF Surf Club, helped 
start a social media campaign called #un-
litter with Surf Club member Sabina Os-
man, a UF sustainability studies senior. Osman, 21, said the campaign is about respecting Mother Earth.
The idea for the campaign began in 
March while Osman was aboard her friend’s boat off the coast of Miami. She noticed a pile of trash ﬂ  oating on the water and said, “We need to unlitter the 
planet.”
The word caught the group’s attention. 
The decision to turn the word into some-
thing bigger was instant, and the #unlit-ter Facebook page went active that same 
day. Currently, 275 people have liked the 
page and 885 follow it on Instagram. They also used the phrase on their Homecom-ing ﬂ  oat.
“I just realized that the word had pow-
er,” Osman said. 
Initially, the group advocated for 
beachgoers to pick up two pieces of trash each beach visit, but the results were 
disappointing, Osman said. To keep the 
movement going, Osman decided to be less rigid with what they asked of sup-porters.
“I had given up, and the word just 
came back organically,” said Osman. 
By May, Mostyn said members of the 
surﬁ  ng community in Gainesville were us-ing and spreading the word. 
“People just chilling on the beach 
didn’t want to make a commitment,” Os-man said. “So we changed it from being an obligation to being more of a vibe.”
Over the summer, Osman made an In-
stagram page to showcase the ways she 
and her friends were cleaning beaches 
around the world. Mostyn said the group has been on trips to Jacksonville, Miami, Hawaii, Australia, North Carolina and 
California. 
Natalie Erb, a UF marketing freshman, 
said she’s excited to spread the movement. 
The 18-year-old caught her ﬁ  rst sight of the ocean at age 10 — her ﬁ  rst wave at 12.    
“Once you connect with the ocean, you 
connect with life, and we all share that.”
The #unlitter team will take a trip to 
Ecuador in December. For Mostyn, who 
surfed his ﬁ  rst waves in the latitude-deﬁ  -
cient South American country, it will be a kind of homecoming.
He said there is an “absurd amount of 
trash” at some of Ecuador’s beaches.
“When I was at Engabao beach six 
years ago, I met a girl in the Peace Corps whose job was basically to hang out with the locals and ﬁ  nd out what the problem 
was,” Mostyn said. “Her job was to ﬁ  gure 
out what the problem was. It is #unlitter’s job to ﬁ  x the problem.” Surf Club creates social media 
movement to clean planet
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
UPD: Man tresspasses and steals from Reitz Union Bookstore 
POLICE SAID HE WAS WEARING 
THE STOLEN T-SHIRT AND BOXERS 
WHEN HE WAS ARRESTED.  
A Miami man was arrested Friday af-
ternoon after he robbed a man at the Re-
itz Union Bookstore and stole items from 
the store, University Police said. 
Santino Humberto Storino, 27, was 
caught on surveillance video stealing a customer’s bag at about 3:36 p.m. The 
footage also showed Storino taking a 
shirt and a pair of boxers from the book-
store, putting them inside the stolen bag 
and leaving the store, according to an ar-
rest report. 
The customer told officers his bag, 
which was clear and plastic and had 
two tickets to the UF football game and 
a T-shirt, was taken while he was trying on clothes. 
An officer found Sto-
rino near Midtown and 
recognized him from a 
photo that was distrib-
uted to patrolling po-
lice. Storino admitted to taking the bag and the clothing from the bookstore, which he was wearing while 
talking to officers, according to the re-
port. 
Storino was previously banned from 
UF’s campus in November 2015 and be-
ing at the bookstore violated his trespass 
warning, according to the report. 
Storino was arrested on charges of 
trespassing and petty theft. He was tak-en to the Alachua County Jail where he 
remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$12,500 bond.
 
-Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
GPD: Woman arrested for hitting 
two people with her car
POLICE FOUND HER L YING ON 
THE SIDEWALK WITH EMPTY 
BOTTLES OF WINE.
A Gainesville woman, who police 
found lying on the sidewalk with empty 
wine bottles, was arrested Saturday 
for hitting two people with her car, 
Gainesville Police said.Alexandra CJ Bellis, 24, was seen by 
witnesses near 4222 NW 16th Blvd. at 
about 2 p.m. sitting in the driver’s seat of her car, kicking the front windshield, 
according to an arrest report. The 
witnesses approached Bellis’ car to make 
sure she was OK and noticed Bellis’ seat 
belt was wrapped around her body and 
through her legs.
One of the witnesses, an alcohol and 
drug therapist who is trained to recognize signals of impairment, said Bellis was 
sweating profusely and her eyes kept 
rolling back into her head. After speaking 
to Bellis, the witness believed she 
was under the inﬂ  uence of something, 
according to the report. 
Witnesses tried to reason with Bellis 
and told police they were concerned Bellis could hurt herself and others, according 
to the report.
Bellis got out of her car and left it 
in gear. One of the witnesses went into 
the car, put it in park 
and took Bellis’ keys, 
according to the report.
Bellis became irate 
and began yelling when 
she found out police were called, according 
to the report. She took her keys back, got into her car and started it.
Bellis put the car in reverse and 
slammed on the gas pedal, knocking over two people who were standing in the open 
driver’s door, according to the report.
One victim was knocked down by 
the door and dragged for about 15 feet, 
causing severe road rash to her right 
arm, police said. The second victim was also hit by the door but was able to keep 
her footing and only suffered a sprained 
ankle.
When Bellis put her car into drive, 
one of the witnesses was able to pull the 
victims out of her way and into safety, 
according to the report.
Witnesses gave responding ofﬁ  cers a 
description of Bellis and her car.
A police ofﬁ  cer found Bellis near 900 
NW 55th St. lying on the sidewalk with several empty wine bottles next to her. 
Bellis was taken to North Florida Regional 
Medical Center’s emergency room, 
according to the report. Police said one of 
the people who was hit by Bellis’ car and 
another witness identiﬁ  ed Bellis while she 
was in the hospital.
-Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
Storino
 Bellis
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1990 300 CE Mercedes Benz coupe.
Photos available. Call for price. 386-3772    
10-16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring Foreman, Stone Masons & Tenders. Foreman must have 5-8 yrs exp. w/ all phases of masonry, be computer literate, physically capable to do job and have proven track record w/ references. Stone masons must have 5 yrs. exp. & tenders must have 2 yrs. exp. Contact Shelley between 8:00am-5:00pm. @ 352-636-1431  DFWP.   10-13-17-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       10-18-17-6-14
Construction Laborers Needed!!Temp. Agency. Daily PayCall 352-505-0503 www.allfloridapersonnel.com       10-9-17-2-14.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. Hall of Famers Tony Gwynn and 
Rod Carew combined for how many 
batting-average titles?
2. How many home runs did Babe 
Ruth hit in World Series play?
3. Who is the only football coach to 
lead the University of North Carolina to multiple ACC championships?
4. Bismack Biyombo set a Toron-
to Raptors record in 2016 for most 
rebounds in a playoff game (26). Who had held the mark?
5. The Minnesota Wild set a fran-
chise record in the 2016-17 NHL sea-son for victories (49). What had been the team’s highest total?
6. In 2016, Claressa Shields became 
the sixth American to win the Val 
Barker Trophy for best boxer in the 
Olympic tournament. Name three of the five others.
7. Si Woo Kim, in 2017, joined three 
others as the only PGA golfers in the past 25 years to win two tournaments before the age of 22. Name two of the three others to do it.
Answers
1. Fifteen — Gwynn with eight and 
Carew with seven.
2. He appeared in 10 World Series, 
and hit a total of 15 home runs.
3. Bill Dooley (1971, ‘72, ‘77).4. Jonas Valanciunas grabbed 19 
rebounds in a playoff game earlier in 2016. 
5. The Wild won 48 games in the 
2006-07 season.
6. Louis Laurie (1936), Norvel Lee 
(1952), Howard Davis Jr. (1976), Paul 
Gonzales (1984) and Roy Jones Jr. 
(1988).
7. Sergio Garcia, Jordan Spieth and 
Tiger Woods.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 9, 2017King Features Weekly Service
1.  Type of star
1.  Sermon site5.  Style of beer
2.  Like Spock6.  Pie ____
3.  Run ____7.  Dodged
4.  Separated SLAPRU
PLTPIUGRAEL
RSCUT
CILLOGA
DGARNOUDEEDLU
REPDTAANSWERS: 1A-Pulsar  5A-Lager  6A-Crust  7A-Eluded
1D-Pulpit  2D-Logical  3D-Aground  4D-Parted  B-Louis Pasteur10-9-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This biologist, microbiologist and chemist
was born on December 27, 1822.BONUS
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Assistant to job foreman needed for masonry 
company. Duties incl.paperwork, operate mobile scaffold & general clean up. Bi-lingual a plus. DFWP. Call Shelley at 352-636-1431.    10-13-17-4-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYAffordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACROSS
1 “Death of a
Salesman”
salesman Willy
6 Abysmal grades
9 “__ Cross”: 1949
Lancaster movie
14 Friend’s opposite
15 Minor point to
pick
16 Convened again17 Unwise act that
could bedangerous
19 Video game
pioneer
20 Singing syllable
21 Vicinity
22 Type of cleansing
acid
23 Actress Skye
25 Time-out for a
cigarette
27 Upper crust
groups
29 Courage and
fortitude
30 Done in, as a
dragon
31 Swoosh
company
34 Cold War state:
Abbr.
35 Dashboard music
provider
39 Oral health org.
42 “Piece of cake!”43 Real doozies47 Dips for tortilla
chips
50 Agree51 Pre-talkies movie55 “Please leave
your message atthe __”
56 Illegal lending
tactic
57 Wrath, in a hymn58 Round green
veggie
59 Helped
60 Hot chili
designation, anda literaldescription of thestarts of 17-, 25-,35- and 51-Across
63 “The Accidental
Tourist” actressDavis
64 Z, alphabet-wise65 Start of a tennis
point66 Opinion piece
67 Part of GPS:
Abbr.
68 Passover feast
DOWN
1 Southpaws
2 Winning at craps,
say
3 First lady after
Michelle
4 Wee hrs.
5 PBS “Science
Guy” Bill
6 Huge, in verse7 “Hawaii __”: TV
cop show
8 T-bone, for one9 Buster who
played FlashGordon
10 Sharp comeback11 Turkish travel
shelters
12 Continuing
stories
13 Place for a new-
car price
18 Sunday service24 Suffix with diet26 911 situation:
Abbr.
28 Disney doe31 CIA cousin32 “__ not up to me”
33 Vitally important
36 Relax
37 Overhead trains
38 Kick out of office
39 Appease
40 Yellow-disked
flowers
41 Refers casually
(to)
44 Spotted wildcat
45 Rattle46 Soft-shell clam48 Williams of tennis
49 Very soon
50 From the States:
Abbr.
52 Small winds
paired with
drums
53 Literary twist
54 Heaps praise on
61 Beast of burden
62 Golfer Trevino
By Janice Luttrell©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/09/1710/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Chimpanzee
relative
7 “Teen Wolf” airer
10 One on a sting
operation?
14 You’ll need a lift
to use one
15 “Madam
Secretary” star
17 Have grand
ambitions
18 Deal maker
19 Pronoun for
Catherine de’Medici
21 Mariner’s home22 Classic26 Peels off, perhaps27 Revolutionary
icon
28 Mideast capital
once calledPhiladelphia
29 Prima __
31 They might be
set in windows:Abbr.
34 Included in the
game
36 Canal treatment
fluid
38 Not irreg.
39 Made waves, in a
way
41 House Lannister
member on
“Game of
Thrones”
42 Basses’ sect.
43 First period of the
Mesozoic Era
45 Pass for now
48 Script used by
ancient Minoans
49 Oft-layered item50 Share of
ownership
52 Renew one’s
strength
56 Trial area
57 Automaker
Bugatti
58 Freezer brand
59 Stereotypical
corny joke teller
60 Tin ear, to a
pathologist
DOWN
1 Jamboree-on-
the-Air org.
2 Accepts3 Something in the
air4 With a hotel,
avenue whose
rent is $550
5 Break down
6 Request for a
small delay
7 Some are named
for presidents:
Abbr.
8 Flirt
9 Spanish
autonomous
community or itscapital
10 Little white 
breed,
affectionately
11 Vital circulation
aid
12 Fisherman’s knot
13 Lead Clue
weapon
16 Stereotypical
doo-wop garb
20 Put on one’s wish
list
22 Outdoor lecture
sites
23 Like some
unreasonablerequests
24 “Your noble son
__”: Polonius
25 Issuer of three-
part nos.30 Comedian __ the
Entertainer
31 Surface32 Lewis Black, e.g.33 Barely a blip35 “American Pie”
actress
37 Makes a break
for
40 Zeta-theta go-
between
42 ’50s-’60s country
singer McDonald44 How land is
measured
45 Like rakes
46 Pacing, maybe
47 Many a reggae
artist
48 Beer case word
51 Mosby on “How I
Met Your Mother”
53 Homework
amount?
54 Ocean State sch.55 Princess’ bane
By Alex Bajcz©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/07/1710/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFlorida ruins offensive players. That’s 
just what it does, with a few notable excep-
tions. 
One is Antonio Callaway, who came to 
Florida in 2015 as a three-star recruit and exceeded expectations quickly. Another is 
Tyrie Cleveland, who was rated the second-best receiver in the class of 2016 and has 
played like it. 
So them and a few others aside, why 
would any skilled offensive player want to pledge to Florida?
Just look at the quarterbacks since Tim 
Tebow alone. And brace yourself, because it’s a long list.  
John Brantley went from ﬁ  ve-star protege 
to bust. Tyler Murphy was a three-star passer who failed at Florida and transferred to Bos-
ton College. Jeff Driskel went from ﬁ  ve-star savior to bust before leaving Florida, excel-ling at Louisiana Tech and get-ting selected in the sixth round 
of the NFL Draft. Jacoby Brissett 
was a four-star stud in the same class as Driskel who was passed 
over in favor of Driskel, opted 
to transfer — noticing a pattern here? — and excelled at N.C. 
State. He started Sunday’s game 
for the Indianapolis Colts and led them to a win over San Francisco. 
But there’s more: Three-star passer Skyler 
Mornhinweg went 0-3 as a starter at Florida and transferred to Columbia. Three-star Max 
Staver never saw the ﬁ  eld and transferred. 
Still more: Four-star Will Grier had a nice 
run before he was suspended one calendar year for using banned substances and trans-
ferred. He’s now starting for West Virginia. Treon Harris was an enigmatic mixture of success and failure and decided to transfer to Tennessee State, 
where he’s now the starter. 
Then there are the quar-
terbacks who transferred to Gainesville: Luke Del Rio and 
Malik Zaire. Del Rio came from Oregon State and sat out for a 
year before becoming the starter. 
He suffered a season-ending in-
jury halfway through the year. This season, 
he suffered another season-ending injury in 
his ﬁ  rst start of the year. And Zaire played less than one half against Michigan where 
he got battered, bruised and never took the 
lead. 
That leaves Feleipe Franks, Kyle Trask 
and Jake Allen. Trask is injured and lost standing in the offseason. Allen is still a true freshman. And Franks, a redshirt freshman, has been less than spectacular in his ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games in a Florida uniform. 
His 133 passing yards per game rank last 
among starters in the SEC and don’t even register in the top 100 nationally. His three 
touchdown passes are also last in the confer-
ence. His QB rating of 144 is seventh, how-ever, which means he’s just not throwing 
very much. 
I’m not saying that’s his fault. I’m saying 
Florida is cursed. Or at least it seems to be since Tebow left.
Yet, if you peek at the recruits currently 
pledged to Florida, six out of the top seven in this year’s class play offense. That in-
cludes UF’s top commit, Matt Corral, who’s rated the third-best pro-style quarterback in 
the class. 
I don’t get that. At all. 
If you’re an oﬀ  ensive player, why would you want to play for the Gators?
Sophomore Chanelle 
Hargreaves lifted the top-ranked Florida volleyball team over Georgia on Sunday. Read the story, pg. 15.QB Zaire tweets about loss to LSU
Backup quarterback and high-proﬁ  le transfer Malik Zaire aired his frustra-
tions with Florida’s loss on Twitter: “SMH! What. A. Shame. #OnlyLordKnows. ”      
Zaire also liked a tweet by former Gators defensive end Bryan Cox Jr. that criti-cized  Florida’s coaching staff. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriSweet and Bauer / OpinionAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators safety Chauncey Gardner (23) is confident Florida will learn from its mistakes after a 17-16 loss to LSU on Saturday. “You can say maybe (LSU) won, but they really didn’t. We beat ourselves, ” the sophomore said. “But we’re going to bounce back. ”
Starting safety Chauncey Gardner 
hurt his right ankle, special teams 
standout Garrett Stephens hurt his knee, freshman playmaker Kadarius Toney hurt his shoulder and his shin, 
redshirt senior safety Nick Washing-
ton hurt his shoulder, starting left guard Brett Heggie underwent concus-sion protocol and linebacker Jeremiah Moon hurt his ankle. 
McElwain was unclear about how 
much time, if any, they will miss. But after the game, the message he deliv-ered to his team was plenty clear.
“After a loss, you know, little nicks, 
injuries, things like that, sometimes take a little longer to heal,” McElwain said. “We don’t have time to let it heal.”
The Gators will face Texas A&M this 
week and No. 4 Georgia soon after that. They will try to salvage whatever is left of a regular season with two losses and 
six games still to go. They will continue 
to develop Franks and hope he steadily improves week by week.
“We have a long season ahead,” 
Franks said. “I don’t think you can let one or two losses deﬁ  ne us.”
Maybe not. Maybe Saturday’s loss 
won’t deﬁ  ne the Gators. That’s what Gardner told himself after the game on 
Saturday night, his voice steady and 
his eyes focused and his conﬁ  dence seemingly unshaken.
“You can say maybe (LSU) won, 
but they really didn’t. We beat our-selves,” he said. “But we’re going to bounce back.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16‘ We beat ourselves’: Homecoming loss exposes Florida’s flawsMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
Down 24-19 in the third set, Florida — on 
the brink of losing just its eighth set in 13 
matches this season — turned to freshman Chanelle Hargreaves, who served three con-
secutive times, each ending in a Florida point.
Hargreaves’ effort helped propel the No. 1 
Gators to a win over the visiting Georgia Bull-
dogs on Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
A two-handed Rachael Kramer block 
clinched the victory, and Florida swept the Bulldogs (25-13, 25-23, 27-25) to remain un-defeated.
Georgia challenged the play, but the call 
stood, as did the 3,413 fans in attendance.“We always say find a way to win, no 
matter what the situation, find a way to win,” Hargreaves said after the match.
“It was so fun to watch (Hargreaves) do so 
well,” teammate Rhamat Alhassan said.
The Gators (13-0, 5-0 SEC) dominated the 
Bulldogs (12-7, 2-4 SEC) in the first set.
Florida did what it wanted early, nearly 
tripling Georgia’s number of kills and out-blocking the Bulldogs 4-0.
The second set was more competitive, al-
though Florida still held on just enough to top 
the Bulldogs by two points.
Georgia finally found a rhythm in the 
third, where it managed to take the lead for 
much of the set.
Up to that point, Georgia’s only lead was a short-lived 1-0 advantage to start the second set.
The Gators’ comeback marks the team’s 
eighth sweep of the season, and third in its last four games.
Alhassan led the way for the Gators, tal-
lying a game-high 14 kills with just two er-rors. Her hitting percentage of .571 was her second-best clip of the season.
Senior Carli Snyder made an impact on 
both ends of the floor with 10 kills and eight digs. Snyder has now hit double-digit kills in 
all but two matches this season.
Kramer, a sophomore, added seven kills, 
none bigger than the match-winner.
Paige Hammons got going early, getting 
three of her four kills in the first set. Ham-mons also had seven digs and two blocks in a 
balanced performance.
Mary Wise has only lost to Georgia once in 
her 27 years as Florida’s coach.
The Gators hit the road for a Friday night 
match against Ole Miss (12-7, 3-3 SEC) before taking on No. 10 Kentucky (13-2, 4-0 SEC) on  at home.
“Oxford and Gainesville are not exactly 
travel partners,” Wise said when asked about the quick turnaround between Ole Miss and Kentucky.
“We don’t have much time to prepare, but 
that’s the way it is.”
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgGators sweep Bulldogs to remain lone undefeated teamBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
On a soggy, muggy, overcast afternoon 
in Nashville, Tennessee, freshman forward Deanne Rose found herself in a familiar po-sition: in possession of the ball with oppos-ing defenders draped all over her.
After a long Vanderbilt throw-in near 
Florida’s box was redirected toward mid-field, Rose booted the ball to the far side-line and chased it down. She shrugged off 
one Commodore defender, then sped by the 
next.
By the time Rose approached the attack-
ing third of the pitch, she was all alone with a single defender, Myra Konte. Konte had to decide whether to protect against the cross to a streaking Lais Araujo or to take on Rose.
She chose Araujo. Rose was fine with 
that decision.
She drew Vanderbilt’s goalkeeper away 
from the net and chipped the ball over her from 18 yards out, completing a mad dash from box to box to score her second goal in a 3-0 shutout over Vanderbilt on Sunday.
The Gators (11-2, 5-1 SEC) traveled to 
Nashville to face a Commodores squad that hadn’t lost an SEC matchup in five games. For coach Becky Burleigh, the contest pre-sented a chance for her team to demonstrate 
its perseverance.
“I think it was a good opportunity for 
us to show a little bit of toughness in the 
conditions,” Burleigh said. “I think once we got the ball on the ground and kept it there, it was really challenging for Vanderbilt. We did a really good job of that starting the game, and then in the second half as well.”
Burleigh said Rose, a freshman from 
Canada and UF’s leading point-scorer, was “a lot for Vanderbilt to handle.”
“She created the penalty, she scored two 
goals, had a couple of other opportunities,” 
Burleigh said. “Her family was there too, so 
that was awesome that they got to see that kind of performance.”
It was Rose’s third multi-goal game over 
the Gators’ previous six matches. Her hat-trick bid came up just short as captain Gab-by Seiler put away a 77th-minute penalty kick to end the day’s scoring. 
Though Florida goalie Kaylan Marckese 
was only called upon to stop one shot on goal, she nonetheless turned in her fourth shutout since returning from a hand injury on Sept. 14.
Marckese has bounced back into the 
starting lineup with little drop off in produc-tion, recording a 0.875 save percentage on 32 shots faced on goal in her seven starts.
The Gators return home to play their fi-
nal non-conference game of the regular sea-son against Florida State on Thursday. 
The Gators and Seminoles will square off 
at 6 p.m. at James G. Pressly Stadium. The annual rivalry match was rescheduled to avoid the impact of Hurricane Irma. 
“I’m just really glad we didn’t lose that 
game,” Burleigh said. “It’s always such a great game, and we’re looking forward to 
it.”
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFlorida freshman scores twice in road win at Vanderbilt
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
After a long week of tournament 
play for UF’s men’s and women’s 
tennis teams, Florida fell short of claiming its respective singles titles.
The men’s team started off 
strong in tournament play at the ITA All-American Championships in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Sept. 30. 
But going into Florida’s final day 
of competition, only two Gators re-main in contention of claiming the doubles title.
On Sunday, the duo of McClain Kessler and Duarte Vale competed against fellow Gator duo Alfredo Perez and Johannes Ingildsen in 
the qualifying doubles semifinals 
match.
Perez and Ingildsen were vic-
torious against Kessler and Vale in straight sets (7-6, 7-6), advancing them to the finals match on Mon-day.
In consolation singles play, In-
gildsen won in his match against 
Kyle Seelig of Ohio State, 6-3, 4-6, 
6-0. It was Ingildsen’s second time facing Seelig in the tournament, as the Denmark native defeated the OSU redshirt freshman in the first round of the main draw as well.
On Saturday, junior Alfredo Per-
ez, the lone Gator left in qualifying 
singles play, lost his match to Mar-
tin Redlicki of UCLA in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4.
In consolation singles play, In-
gildsen was victorious in both of his matches against Spencer Papa of Oklahoma (3-6, 6-1, 6-3) and Robert Kelly of North Carolina (7-5, 6-1).  
“Johannes was definitely the 
player of the day,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “He had two tremendous wins in singles and is really starting to grasp his iden-tity as a player. Really proud of his toughness and his relentlessly posi-tive attitude.”
The women’s team has also 
faced some tough competition at the ITA Riviera All-American Champi-onships tournament in Pacific Pali-sades, California.
A trio of Gators seniors were 
bested in singles and doubles com-petition, which ultimately ended their tournament play on Friday.
In qualifying singles, No. 12 
Josie Kuhlman was the only Gator to remain in contention of a singles title. Kuhlman dropped her match to No. 14 Gabby Smith of South-ern California in a tough three-set match, 6-3, 5-7, 6-0.
In consolation singles play, No. 
15 Anna Danilina dropped her 
match against Anastasia Rycha-
gova of Kansas in the quarterfinals round, 6-7(6), 7-5, 6-3.
Brooke Austin also lost her last 
match against No. 19 Lily Miyazaki of Oklahoma, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4.
The next tournament for the 
women’s team will be on the road again in Athens, Georgia, as it com-
petes in the ITA Southeast Region 
Championships.  
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
Outside of men’s doubles, Gators find little success in Tulsa
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Deanne Rose, a freshman from Canada, scored two goals for UF on 
Sunday against the Commodores, leading the Gators to their fifth SEC win in 2017.
VOLLEYBALL: UF 3, UGA 0
MEN’S, WOMEN’S TENNISSOCCER: UF 3, VANDY 016   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2017
I suppose there’s the allure of 
wanting to be the savior. The mes-
siah. The second coming of Tebow. 
But with how awful the offense has 
been since Tebow, again, it feels like 
walking into a curse. 
When Tebow last roamed the 
sidelines in 2009, the Gators ranked 
No. 6 nationally in total offense. 
Since then, they haven’t been bet-
ter than 83rd. And under McElwain, they haven’t surpassed No. 103. 
That’s this year, and it’s out of 130 
teams. 
After the loss to LSU Saturday, 
former UF defensive lineman Bryan Cox tweeted: “Time is running out on Florida’s predictable high school 
offense....trash” and “Tired of it...
can’t even tell you how many tal-
ented offensive players I have seen 
come through UF during my time...
not a personnel issue.”
My thoughts exactly. With the 
number of highly rated quarterbacks who have played for Florida since 
Tebow, the problem doesn’t seem 
to be with them. Or the other offen-
sive players who came in touted and inexplicably underperformed. 
Why would any high school 
player seeking fame, glory and eventual riches in the NFL want to 
be a part of that?
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. 
Keep and eye out for his next column 
by following him on Twitter @ebau-
eri. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Since Tim Tebow left UF, every Gators quarterback has strug gled
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Feleipe Franks completed 10 of 16 passes for 108 yards on Saturday in UF’s 17-16 loss to LSU. Franks was 2 of 4 on Florida’s last offensive series.  “I think there’s always room for improvement, ” he said after the game. “I could have did a better job with the tempo on that last drive. ”
