We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 135 FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
Franks, Trask vying for starting job 
The pair of redshirt freshmen quarterbacks will 
compete in tonight’s Spring football game, pg. 13
UF students, locals lobby for mental health
They spoke to legislators in T allahassee, pg. 5
UF vets rescue pug from sinkhole
Cookie was found unharmed, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Head keeper Alex Gil, 29, feeds Gator, 7, a former photo cat who was underweight when rescued after only being fed milk. Gator, who now lives in Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation, was named after the Florida Gators.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
In front of an audience, Gator lunged. 
His claws scraped the top of the 14-foot-tall 
fence, stretching eight feet of orange and black stripes. To a chorus of gasps and murmurs, he snapped the piece of chicken from his keeper’s 
hand.
“Amazing,” one woman said, gasping in as-
tonishment. 
About six years ago, Gator, a tiger rescued 
from a roadside zoo in Chieﬂ  and, Florida, was 9 
months old and 65 pounds, barely half the appro-priate weight, with bleeding ulcers after a diet of just milk. But under the care of Barry Janks and Christine Janks at the Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation, he’s now 7 years old and 500 pounds, pouncing on pieces of chicken 
and swimming in his own waterhole.
“That’s your commitment,” Barry said. “If 
you can’t do what’s right for the animal, why do 
you take them?”
It costs anywhere from $250,000 to $300,000 
annually for the couple to treat their 80 animals — tigers, lions and hyenas among them — right. 
That’s why on Saturday, they’re hosting their bi-
annual open house for thousands to freely roam the conservation at 8528 E. County Road 225. The proﬁ  ts from the ticket sales — $5 to $10 de-pending on age — from the event account for at least $25,000 for their annual budget.
“Everybody’s always shocked when they 
come here,” Barry said.
“It’s amazing, people all over the world come 
here.”
•   •   •
It started with horses.Barry, now 61, moved with Christine to Flori-
da from Chicago in 1999 after retiring as a jockey agent. There, the couple began to train and breed horses on the 274-acre property in Gainesville 
that used to belong to Christine’s father.
In 2007, a friend from Oklahoma called. She 
could no longer afford to take care of Tocatta, her 
pet serval — a wild African cat distantly related to the lynx — and knowing how large the Janks’ property was, she asked if they could take the cat in.
“I had no idea what to do,” Barry said. “I only 
knew horses.”
But they took Tocatta in anyway. The next 
year, they took in four more animals: Sheena, a bobcat, Jay and Mocha, two cougars, and Gracie, a giraffe.
Since then, the couple has allocated 80 acres 
of their property for more exotic animals to stay.  State and national organizations have reached out to the couple to let them know if they’ve found an exotic animal in need of help or close to euthanization.
The Janks found one cougar, Myra, with a 
choker embedded in her neck after being chained 
by her previous owner. Florida Fish and Wild-
life Conservation Commission ofﬁ  cials didn’t think the then-13-year-old cougar would make it through another month. But she lived another three years under the conservation’s care.
Samer the tiger, who still lives at Carson 
Springs, couldn’t pick up his tail to urinate or climb into a standing position when he ﬁ  rst ar-rived, traumatized from a cramped cage he 
shared with lions. Now, Samer is pacing and ﬂ  ex-
ing his muscles like the other tigers. 
For head keeper Alex Gil, it’s clear that the 
couple has an intimacy with the animals that the rest of the staff can’t reach. In January, when Barry and Christine took an overnight trip to Sa-vannah, Georgia, a keeper interrupted their vaca-tion to call and say that at least six of the animals were upset without them there.
But Gil relishes the chance to interact with the 
friendly lions and his favorite species, the spotted hyena.
“I love doing this,” he said. “It’s my career.”Barry’s favorite animal is Henry, a Caring at Carson Springs: How a couple 
works to rescue exotic animals in GainesvilleBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Comedian Chelsea Handler 
will visit UF next week to discuss 
politics and modern culture.
Accent Speakers Bureau and 
UF’s Jewish Student Union are bringing Handler to campus April 13 for a free talk, titled “Chelsea 
Does Politica,” at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts. MSNBC correspondent Jacob So-boroff will moderate the talk.
Handler and Soboroff were 
paid a combined $125,500, with $105,500 coming from Accent and the remaining $20,000 coming from JSU, Accent chairman Mike 
Greenberg said.
Greenberg said getting Handler 
to speak has always been a “pipe 
dream” of Accent’s, but schedul-ing conﬂ  icts and the cost of bring-
ing her prevented it. 
“Apparently in the Spring she 
was actively seeking out college 
speaking tours for a fee that we 
could afford given our budget 
and what we had left, and so we pounced on it,” he said.
Greenberg said he thinks 
bringing Handler will appeal to 
female students, with whom he 
said Handler is popular.
After researching Handler and 
discovering her Jewish back-
ground, Greenberg reached out to 
JSU.
“There’s a lot there in rela-
tion to her Judaism and her life,” Greenberg said.
Students can pick up two 
tickets with a Gator 1 Card on Wednesday at the Phillips Center Box Ofﬁ  ce starting at noon. 
Daniel Tarkington, a 21-year-
old UF biology junior who plans to attend the event, said he likes that Handler is candid in her pub-lic life.
“She’s not afraid to speak her 
mind, especially when it comes to politics,” he said. “She really tries to make a difference.”
@romyellenbogen 
rellenbogen@alligator.orgHandler 
next Accent speaker
SEE CARSON,  PAGE 5Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  73° LOW  43°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Fifth Annual Florida 
Contemporary Music 
FestivalThe Fifth Annual Florida Contemporary Music Festival 
will be held today through 
Saturday. It is a celebration of the music of the current times featuring international per-formers and composers. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In an article published April 6 titled “First openly gay Israeli Defense commander visits UF while on tour,” the Alligator incorrectly reported that Hen 
Mazzig was the first openly 
gay commander to serve under the Israeli Defense Force. He was not the first.VOLUME 111 ISSUE 135
Call Today! 352-372-7374
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Romy Ellenbogen
Staff Writer
When Laurel Johanson called her 
dog Cookie over to her, the 10-year-
old pug took two steps before plum-
meting out of sight.
Amid the pouring rain, a 30-foot 
sinkhole opened up in Johanson’s 
Trenton backyard Tuesday, catching 
the pug, who had been scratching 
her rear against the back fence, off-guard. 
Johanson and her girlfriend, Patri-
cia Langston, said they couldn’t see 
Cookie, but heard her soft snorts and 
immediately called 911.
At about 4 p.m., the UF Veteri-
nary Emergency Treatment Service, 
a volunteer-run 24/7 animal rescue 
service, got a call, said John Haven, the director of the College of Veteri-
nary Medicine. About two and a half 
hours later, a team of three UF VETS found Cookie trapped in the sinkhole.
They dug about an hour as rain 
sprinkled down, with Johanson and Langston tearfully watching off to the side. Johanson said she kept talking 
to Cookie to reassure her.
“It’s okay Cookie dog, we’re gon-
na get you out,” she said.
After the surface was stable, a 
member of the team was lowered down and grabbed Cookie, who es-caped injury-free. 
“(She was) just squirming all over 
the place and wanting to lick every-
body,” Haven said. 
Haven said UF VETS doesn’t 
charge owners for their help. Those who volunteer ﬁ  nd the rescue itself reward enough.
“I don’t have any children, so my 
cats and dogs and horses are my chil-
dren,” he said.
Johanson said they plan to keep 
her eight dogs in cages until the sink-
hole is ﬁ  lled.
“We’re grateful, very grateful, be-
cause we seriously thought we were gonna lose her,” she said.
@romyellenbogen 
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF vets rescue pug from sinkhole
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jenny Groover, a team member with UF Veterinary 
Emergency Treatment Service, holds Cookie after rescuing the dog from a 30-foot sinkhole.
“W e’re grateful, very grateful, because 
we seriously thought we were gonna 
lose her.”
Laurel Johanson
Cookie the pug’s owner4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
4,600-pound Indian rhino, a peace-
ful old-timer who needs 70 arthri-tis pills every day. First thing every morning, at 7:30 a.m., Barry feeds Henry a healthy breakfast of hay, 
biotin, alfalfa, wheat, supplements 
and minerals.
“I don’t have any kids, so these 
animals are (my kids),” Barry said. “They are part of the family.”
•   •   •
Finances present one of the big-
gest challenges for the couple.
On a nearly 300-acre property, 
there’s always room for another res-cue. But when it costs $5,000 annu-
ally to feed a tiger that can live for 
20 years, the couple often hesitates to take in additional animals.
Veterinarian visits also cut into 
the couple’s budget. Barry estimates he and his wife shell out $30,000 to $35,000 a year for checkups and vac-cines.
So far, the couple relies on dona-
tions. They give tours every day of the week except Sunday, asking for a $25 donation in return. With roughly 40 to 50 visitors every day, Barry said, the funds make up 30 percent of their budget.
“The look on (visitors’) faces is 
great,” he said. “They are just so happy they got to do this.”
Joyce Bak, the woman in awe 
of Gator’s prowess, took one of 
the tours at Carson Springs for her 
birthday. Her daughter, 21-year-old UF public health junior Arella Bak, found out about the facility online and booked the tour for herself and her mother.
“I’ve never gotten so close to 
these types of animals,” Joyce said.
The conservation hosts smaller 
events for holidays like Christmas and Valentine’s Day, but the high-light of the year comes with the open houses each fall and spring.
Barry expects roughly 2,500 
people to come for this Saturday’s Spring Safari Open House. From 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., families and individu-als can visit the animals and watch 
warthog races and feedings. Ten per-
cent of profits made by the food ven-dors — Cilantro Taco, Blue Highway and PDQ — will go back to paying for Carson Springs.
None of the profits from the facil-
ity go to Barry and Christine.
“Me and Christine will never take 
a penny,” Barry said. “We already 
made our living, and now we are just giving back.”
He’s unsure what will happen to 
the conservation when he and Chris-
tine die. Barry said he hopes he is buried at Carson Springs or his ashes are spread at the conservation.
But for now, he’s relishing the 
opportunity to spend time with his animals.
“When I come up to their cages, they all come running up,” Barry said. “The animals are happy here.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Mari Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For the first time in his life, Paul Burns 
woke up at 4:30 a.m. 
But when his alarm rang Thursday, the 
21-year-old UF psychology junior said he was energized, ready to catch a charter bus 
to Tallahassee. The trip — about 12 hours 
in total — was designed to give Gainesville residents the opportunity to lobby for better mental health services in Florida. 
“We had a diverse group of viewpoints 
on mental health in Florida, and that’s what we’ve been talking to these lawmakers about,” said Burns, who also serves as an Awareness Wellness Ambassadors Reaching Everyone ambassador with the UF Counseling and Wellness Center. 
The group, made up of 40 local members 
of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, fundraised in order to make the trip to the state capital. There, they joined 20 other alliance members to speak with legislators about the struggle to find funding for mental health resources. 
“The goal is to fund services in 
the community, outpatient-intensive treatments,” said Terrie Mullin, the 
president of the Gainesville NAMI chapter. “Bottom line is that what we have been 
encouraging and stressing is services so that a person doesn’t have to go into the 
hospital.”
For Lauren Kirkley, 18, the priority was 
drawing attention to the limited number of 
mental health services on college campuses, including UF.“Other universities often have either 
similar or worse situations,” the UF political science freshman said. “So UF is in a bad 
situation, but it’s not specific to UF.”
The group brought signs with pictures 
and phrases like “Prevention Not Detention” 
and “Stomp out Stigma” to the capital. They also met with legislators, including Clovis Watson, Alachua County’s representative. 
Burns, who also gave a speech at a 
press conference about suicide prevention 
among students, said he felt the trip was 
quite productive, and he appreciated how receptive the legislators seemed to be. 
“It was a very good atmosphere,” Burns 
said. UF students, locals lobby for mental health in Tallahassee
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Barry, 61, feeds Henry, a 35-year old Asian rhino, a mix of carrots, sweet potatoes and apples.
CARSON,  from pg. 1It costs about $30,000 a year to pay for animals’ medical needsCourtesy to the Alligator 
A group poses for a photo in T allahassee on Thursday. The group traveled to the state capital to lobby for better mental health services. 
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. 
fired a barrage of cruise missiles into 
Syria on Thursday night in retalia-tion for this week’s gruesome chemi-cal weapons attack against civilians, officials said. It was the first direct American assault on the Syrian gov-ernment and Donald Trump’s most dramatic military order since becom-ing president.The strikes hit the government-
controlled Shayrat air base in central Syria, where U.S. officials say the Syrian military planes that dropped the chemicals had taken off. The U.S. missiles hit at 8:45 p.m. in Washington time, early morning Fri-day in Syria.
The surprise U.S. assault marked 
a striking reversal for Trump, who warned as a candidate against the U.S. getting pulled into the Syrian civil war, now in its seventh year. But the president appeared moved by the photos of children killed in the chemical attack, calling it a “dis-grace to humanity” that crossed “a lot of lines.”
About 60 U.S. Tomahawk mis-
siles, fired from warships in the Med-iterranean Sea, targeted an air base in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack that American officials believe Syrian government aircraft launched with a nerve agent, possibly sarin.
The president did not announce 
the attacks in advance, although he and other national security officials ratcheted up their warnings to the Syrian government throughout the day Thursday.
“I think what happened in Syria 
is one of the truly egregious crimes and shouldn’t have happened and it shouldn’t be allowed to happen,” Trump told reporters traveling on Air Force One to Florida, where he was holding a two-day summit with Chi-nese President Xi Jinping.
The strike came as Trump was 
hosting Xi in meetings focused in part on another pressing U.S. secu-rity dilemma: North Korea’s nuclear program. Trump’s actions in Syria could signal to China that the new president isn’t afraid of unilateral military steps even if key nations like China are standing in the way.
US blasts Syria base with about 60 cruise missilesThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsBy now, the U.S. Senate may already have 
dispensed with tradition and confirmed Judge Neil Gorsuch by simple majority. They would have done this by invoking what is dramatically termed the “nuclear 
option” — a process by which Senate rules are changed to allow a confirmation vote of Supreme Court nominees with 51 (instead of 60) votes.
If this is the case, take a moment to mourn 
yet another nail in the coffin for a Senate run by adults. 
I do not say this because I’m a liberal and 
Judge Gorsuch is a conservative. Whatever our philosophi-cal differences, Gorsuch is no more conservative than Jus-
tice Clarence Thomas and hardly more conservative than 
former Justice Antonin Scalia. His appointment to the bench would be the logical outcome of a Republican-con-trolled Senate. 
My issue, rather, is with Democratic obstinacy. A dense fog of jargon and tradition shrouds any Sen-
ate preceding, so I’ll try to break this one down in English for clarity’s sake: After a Supreme Court nominee passes a committee vote, his or her nomination gets debated on the 
Senate floor by all 100 representatives. All 100 must agree 
to end debate in order to move forward with a final vote.
When one more refuses to stop debating, we have a fili-
buster on our hands. To end a filibuster, a Senator must file a cloture motion, which allows for 60 senators to vote to end debate and move forward with the final vote.
In the past, a vote to confirm the nominee did not cor-
relate perfectly with a vote to end debate. Senator John Doe might not agree with nominee X, but agreement does not 
determine qualification. The Supreme Court needs justices, 
and the Senate has other work to attend to. Doe votes to end debate and tosses his name in the “Do Not Confirm” pile for confirmation. The nominee has the majority she needs, and voila: We have a new justice. 
This year, however, is different. Democratic senators 
have by-and-large indicated they will not vote to end de-bate and will instead protest Gorsuch’s nomination indefi-nitely. Why? I’m not quite sure. 
Many claim that he’s remarkably unfit for the 
position; others claim 60 confirmation votes are necessary to ensure a justice whose views align with the mainstream. But both of these argu-
ments are weak.
Looking at qualifications alone, Gorsuch 
looks like most other justices on the court: an 
Ivy League education, a clerkship at the Supreme Court, a largely uncontroversial federal judge-ship. Considering ideology, he stakes out no un-characteristically conservative positions. As for 
vote totals, two sitting justices were confirmed with less than 60 votes (Alito and Thomas). 
The reason we’re left with, then, is pettiness — hypocrit-
ical payback for Republican refusal to vote on former Presi-dent Barack Obama’s nominee, Merrick Garland — and this should frustrate us all. Merrick Garland is not coming back. President Donald Trump (a phrase that still astounds me to type) in an impossibly rare flash of maturity managed to nominate an immensely qualified conservative rather than an insane ideologue or reality show judge. If there is a God, Gorsuch was heaven-sent to give us all a break. 
Democrats could have bitten the bullet, allowed a vote 
on his confirmation, and followed Michelle Obama’s lead: going high when they go low. Instead, in an act of political expediency that only further sows division, they decided to deliver jabs of their own.
And so the Senate turns sandbox. For as principled, pro-
gressive and inspiring as senators like Cory Booker, Eliza-beth Warren and Bernie Sanders can be, each bows to the temptation of a partisan food fight. Republicans in turn will 
throw out the filibuster, and Gorsuch will be confirmed 
anyway. 
There is a sliver of hope, however. If a vote on cloture 
has not yet taken place, call your representative! Our sena-tors may be children, but we can be the adults who tell them what to do.
Champe Barton is a UF economics and psychology 
junior. His column appears on Fridays.Gorsuch confirmation: A Senate turned sandbox
There’s supposed to be a witty introduction here. It’s sup-
posed to be a short paragraph and elicit a bit of a smile or 
chuckle from you, dear readers, depending on how expressive you’re feeling today. But it’s that last stretch of the semester, so chances are the best we’re going to get out of you is a slight nod, maybe a twitch of the mouth in the upward direction. We’re just going to leave it at this and invite you to read the week’s…
Darts & Laurels
Some marketing team at Pepsi sat down and tried to fig-
ure out what was cool and appealing to all those millennials 
out there. Millennials like protesting, they thought. Millennials also like the Kardashian-Jenner family. Why not combine these things? What resulted was a very forced and obviously pander-
ing advertisement, in which Kendall Jenner grows restless dur-
ing a glamorous photoshoot and joins a protest. What are the people protesting? No one really knows, but probably nothing with any gravity, because all the protesters are smiling, hug-ging and high-fiving. Our blessed saint, Kendall Jenner, hands a can of Pepsi to a police officer, who cracks a smile and ev-erything is hunky-dory. What blows our minds is how many levels of production this commercial had to go through before it finally aired. In all that time, no one paused for a moment and 
thought about what they were really trying to say. Protesting 
is “in”— let’s capitalize on it. Let’s tell the world that all prob-lems can be solved by a celebrity handing a police officer a can of Pepsi cola. A dart to Pepsi for trivializing the serious nature 
of protests and just completely missing the point. 
Barry Manilow came out as gay earlier this week. This 
might not have come as a surprise to some. Manilow has been with his partner for almost 40 years, and the pair tied the knot in 2014. Manilow says the reason he had not come out sooner 
was because he was afraid of disappointing fans. It’s important 
to remember that while some people are ready to come out the moment they realize their sexuality, others choose not to for many different reasons — they are not ready, they do not want their families to find out, among other reasons. But no matter what the journey is, we are happy to see that Manilow and his husband, Garry Kief, can be open about their relationship and who they are. So a laurel to Barry Manilow and Garry 
Kief — here’s to your long-lasting relationship and the music 
you’ve given us.
Steve Bannon has been removed from the National Security 
Council. He’s been a polarizing presence in the Trump adminis-
tration, with a sort of “all or nothing” mentality when it comes to policymaking that a lot of more experienced politicians are wary of. Economics adviser Gary Cohn has privately said he believes Bannon “plays to the president’s worst impulses.” Al-though Trump admired that same fiery, persistent quality that he shared with Bannon in the early days of the administration, 
it appears he’s realized that politics — or at least the National 
Security Council — takes a little more ... finesse. So a tentative laurel to this decision — there’s still a lot of things that could go wrong, but, hey, at least there are more qualified and level-headed people on the NSC.
Let’s close the week with some positive nature news — the 
West Indian manatee has been bumped from the endangered species list! The staple of Florida rivers, coasts and license plates has been on the Endangered Species list since the 1970s, 
when its numbers were in the low hundreds. Not everyone 
is thrilled about this, though. Many environmental agents are arguing that removing the species from the list as the new gov-ernment administration rolls in will significantly cut back on regulations designated to protect manatees. So perhaps this laurel isn’t entirely positive, but we’re still taking a small joy in the fact that manatee numbers are at their highest — about 
6,600. You go, sea cows. Still, we all need to make an effort to protect our beautiful state, even without the looming threat of 
an endangered species list.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORChampe  
Barton
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Conservatism means consistency
Young Americans for Freedom president 
Daniel Weldon’s recent letter to the editor 
missed the mark. Although the author raised a number of valid concerns regarding students’ ability to engage in conservative dialogue on a college campus, his conclusion in calling for administration to intrude in student affairs ul-timately departs from fundamental principles of conservatism. To his point, attending the Ben Shapiro Accent show this past Monday was the ﬁ  rst time I witnessed faculty protest-ing a student-organized and funded event in my ﬁ  ve years at UF. While this was cer-
tainly concerning, demanding “change” or 
“action” from UF President Kent Fuchs and administration would prove to be both fruit-less and counterintuitive for an organization 
championing the cause of individual liberty. 
First, Fuchs is no more able to prevent stu-
dents from tearing down conservative ﬂ  iers on campus than he is able to prevent white supremacists putting ﬂ  iers up on campus. 
At a certain point, it becomes necessary for 
students to reassess our beliefs on what is 
reasonable to expect from administration in ridding our campus of bias. Second, the au-thor’s sentiments have begun to mirror those 
of the students Shapiro so adamantly oppos-
es. Self-victimization likens the author to the 
“snowﬂ  akes” much of Monday evening was spent criticizing. Rather than calling on ad-ministration at a publicly funded institution to step in, conservatives on campus should pull themselves up by their bootstraps. Bring-ing conservative speakers like Shapiro to campus is an excellent start, and I commend Weldon and YAF. Although I will concede there are campuses around the country like the University of California, Berkeley where students’ First Amendment rights are being trampled and administration intervention is necessary, this is simply not the case at UF. In between the sparse ranks of protestors, I 
also witnessed Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce pro-
test team staff working to deescalate the situation so the event could continue uninter-rupted. Campus climate and culture should 
be shaped by students and students alone. 
When we call on others to ﬁ  ght our battles 
for us, we lose the autonomy and freedom we work so hard to maintain. Individualism and freedom from institutional intrusion is a 
hallmark of the conservative movement. Let’s 
keep it that way.
Blake Murphy is a 23-year-old ﬁ  rst-year 
UF law student and a member of the UF Hall 
of Fame.
Fabrication not path to equality
Dear Mr. Weldon, 
I’m a liberal. I’ve never heard of your 
organization, and I haven’t even heard that much about Ben Shapiro. So, I’m not going to pass judgement on either of those. I don’t have all the information. I would like to say that, as a liberal UF student, I agree with you that all political parties should have an equal presence on campus. That’s not the issue in your letter to the editor. You claim our coun-try is, “not a country dictated by Sharia where LGBTQ people are murdered for being born the way they are,” which is only half-true. Violence against LGBTQ+ people has a long history in the U.S. In fact, there’s an entire Wikipedia page on it. You deﬁ  ne hate speech as “the vague term used for anything some-
one disagrees with or is offensive to some-
one,” which is crude and immature when put 
against the dictionary.com deﬁ  nition: “speech 
that attacks, threatens, or insults a person or 
group on the basis of national origin, ethnic-
ity, color, religion, gender, gender identity, 
sexual orientation, or disability.” You’re ar-
guing against conservative students being op-
pressed, but within your argument you write 
off the oppression of LGBTQ+ people and 
you make light of hate speech, a vehicle used 
to oppress. You’re asking for equality in your 
letter. Fabrication is not the way to get there.
Samantha Stone is a 21-year-old UF Eng-
lish senior.
Rebuttal to Nicole Dan
One of the preeminent intellectuals of the 
last century, Noam Chomsky’s quote is aimed 
directly at our generation: “If we don’t be-lieve in freedom of expression for people we 
despise, we don’t believe in it at all.” Nicole 
Dan’s recent publication posits that paying 
for Ben Shapiro’s appearance at UF by Accent 
represents not only their ignorance, but (at worst) sanctioned approval of his message. 
This is not only incorrect, but close-minded. 
Higher education is tasked with challenging 
assumptions, facilitating experiences and, 
god forbid, making us uncomfortable. To stick our head in the sand and ignore the 
perspectives of opposition parties not only 
insulates us from diverse perspectives and fa-cilitates groupthink, but “other-izes” the very individuals we need to engage with the most. She argues that “there’s no room for dialogue when someone believes that a group doesn’t have the right to exist.” These moments ne-cessitate discussion the most. As exempliﬁ  ed by the riots at University of California, Berke-ley at the appearance of Milo Yiannopoulos, our fear of hearing things that disturb us not only closes paths to dialogue, but alienates others. With Shapiro’s appearance having passed, consider these words: Apathy is the greatest insult. Protest, post on social media, but above all, don’t close your eyes. To do so is nothing less than intellectual dystrophy and further entrenches that which you pur-port to hate in our mainstream culture.
Greg Muller is a 25-year-old UF doctoral 
student studying school psychology.
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/17.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/17.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
Come Visit Our  
Expanded Health 
& Wellness Area
Visit your local Sam’s Club: 4001 SW 30th PlaceVisit www.samsclub.com for additional items
Stay 
connected.
CLARK BUTLER BLVD.SW 30TH AVE.
SW 40TH BLVD.
SW ARCHER RD.
SW 34TH  ST.SW
 42ND ST. WINDMEADOWS BLVD.
CLARK BUTLER BLVD.SW 30TH AVE.
SW 40TH BLVD.
SW ARCHER RD.
SW 34TH  ST.SW
 42ND ST. WINDMEADOWS BLVD.
Butler 
East
Butler 
CentralButler West
GNC ArcherButler East
Bonefish Grill
Butler North
Sam’s ClubButler WestButler 
North
7575Take The Day 
to DISCOVER …PLAZA    NORTH    TOWN CENTERFRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
TURBINE POWER
The future of the automobile
visit americanturbines.com
• No Gas
• No Batteries• No Pollution
NONE OF THE CARS IN THE 
ACCIDENT DROVE AWAY FROM 
THE SCENE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
At least two people were injured Thurs-
day afternoon after a driver crashed into 
two other cars. At about 3:45 p.m., Jessica DelCristo, 
24, was driving her pregnant friend home from an ultrasound appointment at UF Health Shands Hospital. When she stopped at a light driving east on Southwest Archer Road, a man driving a white Toyota Matrix 
collided into her.
She said the man later told her he had 
looked down and looked up, but it was too 
late. His car pushed her gray Toyota Scion into the car in front of her.“It was out of nowhere,” she said.An ambulance took her friend to the 
hospital for minor injuries along with an-other driver and her child, DelCristo said.
Gainesville Police Lt. Jaret Weiland said 
two ambulances took patients to Shands. A 
ﬁ  re truck also assisted in cleaning up ﬂ  uid 
that had leaked onto the road.
GPD closed down eastbound trafﬁ  c 
while the scene was cleared. The right lane was reopened for short periods of time to let trafﬁ  c pass through as the wrecked cars were towed until 5 p.m., Weiland said.
DelCristo watched as her car was placed 
on the tow truck and said she had just re-placed her headlights and windshield.
“I’m ﬁ  ne,” she said. “I’m just pissed.”
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgTwo injured, traffic stopped on Archer after wreck
HE CHOKED AN EMPLOYEE 
AT ROWDY REPTILE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Thursday after they say he pushed and choked employees at Rowdy Reptile. 
David Michael Evans, 30, tried to 
break into Rowdy Reptile, at 1702 W. University Ave., after the bar had closed at 2 a.m., according to an arrest report. Employees closed the door on Evans after he pushed an employee and choked another.
Evans kicked at the door and 
threatened to kill the employee he pushed, police said. As ofﬁ  cers brought him down the stairs outside the bar, he let his legs buckle under-neath him, resisting arrest.
Ofﬁ  cers carried him down the 
stairs and into the back seat of the po-lice car, according to the report.
Joshua Allyn Evans, 29, tried to 
intervene in David Evans’s arrest by placing his body close to the ofﬁ  cer who was arresting David Evans. The arrest report states Joshua Evans was charged with resisting an ofﬁ  cer with-out violence, but the Alachua County Jail had no record of his arrest.
It is unknown whether there is any 
relation between the two men.
Police arrested David Evans on 
charges of simple battery, simple as-sault and resisting an ofﬁ  cer without 
violence. Authorities took David Ev-
ans to jail where he was released on his own recognizance Thursday after-noon. As of press time, he could not be reached for comment. 
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org GPD: Man tries to break into bar
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
ALL THE WAY UP
Louis Searcy, a 27-year-old UF chemistry graduate student, 
lifts Angelo Cursio, a third-grader, into the air during an event in the UF Florida Gym celebrating National Biomechanics Day on Thursday. The event featured interactive stations demonstrating different aspects of biomechanics.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Contributing Writer
On any given day, Angela Mc-
Call spends up to 14 hours in the UF 
Health Science Center working in the 
lab.
In the past, the 27-year-old found 
she didn’t have a space to escape her work. But following the completion 
of a new health science graduate stu-
dent lounge, McCall, a UF biomedical sciences and interdisciplinary science 
graduate student, and her classmates 
have their own space on the ground 
ﬂ  oor of the building.With whiteboards lining the walls 
and natural light ﬁ  lling the room, Mc-Call said health science graduate stu-
dents, including her, helped design 
the space with their needs in mind. 
After less than six months of con-
struction, two classrooms were con-verted into the lounge, which opened 
Wednesday during UF’s Graduate 
Student Appreciation Week.
UF Health and the six health sci-
ences colleges funded the room, which is equipped with three Apple 
TVs, two Whirlpool refrigerators and 
two microwaves, McCall said. 
McCall hopes that the lounge can be a place for health science graduate 
students from the six schools to relax 
and socialize.
“This goes to having no communi-
cation into a greater amount of com-
munication between colleges,” she 
said.
Andrea Lin, the president of the 
HSC’s graduate student organization, said the new room allows for a greater 
feeling of community.
“To properly manage health and 
properly have a good school within the Health Science Center ... you have 
to be able to integrate yourself with 
the community,” Lin said.UF’s Health Science Center 
opens graduate student loungeFRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-12-17-10-2
1BR/1BA condo, walking to UF/Shands, cov-ered parking, washer/dryer, AC, dishwasher, refrigerator, oven/range, microwave, $775/m (includes high speed internet), July 1st, 352-871-2871.      4-11-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray.Odorless, Long Lasting.Available: Hardware Stores,The Home Depot, homedepot.com.Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!     4-7-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14
SUMMER SWIM CAMP COUNSELORSThe 200 Club is hiring summer swim camp counselors. Camp held M-F, 1-5pm. Counselors must be strrong swimmers, high energy & great with kids. Apply in person at the 300 Club 3715 NW 12th Ave.    4-7-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL connection.     4-7-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBudget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
AIRLINE SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training inweeks not yearsto become a certified aircraft dispatcher.Job placement assistance.Call AIM 888-242- 2649.     4-7-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305      4-7-1-16
ACROSS
1 Chanel product
6 Father of Hector
11 Interruption14 Give the green
light
15 “The Flintstones”
co-creator
16 Martial arts
accessory
17 Young Pharaoh’s
mischievousplaymate?
20 It’s on display
while boasting
21 Eccentric22 Stephen Colbert
forte
23 Papuan food
staple
24 Solar prod.25 Overly sweet
fruit?
31 Features of a Los
Angeles aerial
view
32 Charged thing33 Chekov
colleague
34 Line on a globe
35 Apt cry in
reaction to fourpuzzle answers?
37 One in a cage38 Carson
predecessor
40 “Norma __”
41 Salad garnish
brand
43 Useless
metallurgical
product?
47 Coll. employee48 Motivate49 Helped create, in
a way
51 Hold for another
time
53 “Law & Order:
SVU” rank
56 Small shellfish of
high quality?
59 Succor60 Parking garage
component
61 Keats’ Muse62 Montpelier-to-
Providence dir.
63 Ski resort near
Montpelier
64 In la-la land
DOWN
1 Opposite of starve2 Obstruct
3 Saint Erasmus of
Formia, familiarly4 San Francisco’s
__ Hill
5 Weekend,
usually
6 Laser particle
7 Large quantity8 Black9 “Wheel of
Fortune”
purchase
10 Capital south of
Taipei
11 Seek a higher
authority?
12 Have __ in the
oven
13 “How
unfortunate”
18 Hindu ascetic
19 Athenians, to
Parisians
23 Four after do
24 Selection word
25 Foundation of
many islets
26 What a
homecomingparade generates
27 Alms provider28 “Hop-Frog”
author
29 Literature
Nobelist of 1948
30 Fills in
31 Literary sobriquet35 “Carmina Burana”
composer
36 Former Rocket
Ming
39 “Air Music”
composer
41 Obviously
astonished
42 Vital statistic
44 Some Alpine
entertainment
45 Like Victoria’s
Secret models46 Woody offshoot?49 Getaway options50 Camera lens
feature
51 Blessing for a
couch potato
52 One way to start53 ER shout54 Stan with a sax55 Paris’ realm57 Exchanged
handshakes
58 Indian honorific
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/07/1704/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, April 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 18 Personals 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Tim T ebow homers in minor league debut
In his ﬁ  rst-ever minor league at-bat, former Florida quarterback Tim T ebow 
hit a two-run home run to the opposite ﬁ  eld for the New York Mets' Low-A 
afﬁ  liate, the Columbia Fireﬂ  ies.The SEC apologized to coach 
Bryan Shelton and the Florida men's tennis team after confusion over rules resulted in a UF loss. Read the story, pg. 14.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
When Feleipe Franks stepped foot on 
UF’s campus last Spring as an early enroll-ee, the level of hype and expectation sur-rounding his arrival was through the roof.
The four-star quarterback from Craw-
fordville, Florida, had just completed a senior campaign at Wakulla High School that saw him throw for 2,766 yards, 35 touchdowns and two interceptions.
His passer rating of 137.0 was one of 
the best marks in the country as well, and his 6-foot-6, 219-pound frame gave him rare size and mea-surables that left many 
college scouts drooling.
However, when 
Franks ﬁ  nally made his 
highly anticipated debut in front of Gators fans at 
Florida’s Spring game 
on April 8, 2016, his 
performance was less than stellar.
Playing un-
der the bright lights of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-dium, Franks struggled mightily against UF’s ﬁ  rst-team defense, throwing an interception on each of his opening three series.
An 18-year-old 
Franks turned things around slightly at the end of the contest, toss-ing a 16-yard touch-down to tight end C’yontai Lewis, but by then the damage had already been done.
Franks, while 
loaded with talent and potential, showed that he was simply not ready to lead Florida’s of-fense in 2016 and instead sat out the year behind Luke Del Rio and Austin  Appleby.
“You  learn from it, you learn from your mis-takes,” Franks said. “You go back and look at the ﬁ  lm and see what you did wrong and then not do it again… I think it was a case of me just not coming in and getting comfortable with everybody.”
Now, after spending the past year fa-
miliarizing himself with Doug Nussmei-
er’s offense, Franks feels 
ready to take over as 
UF’s quarterback of 
the future.
The redshirt 
freshman has made 
tremendous strides 
this Spring on the 
mental side of the 
game, learning 
how to read 
defenses  
more con-sistently  
while also 
improving 
on his prep-
aration in 
the class-room.
Although 
he is cur-
rently in a 
tight battle 
for the start-
ing job with fel-
low gunslinger Kyle 
Trask, Franks said the 
two frequently help each 
other and use the competi-
tion as fuel to improve their 
games.
“It’s going to get each and 
every one of us better,” he said. 
“I’m working my butt off every 
day for that opportunity.”
Nussmeier, Florida’s quarter-
backs coach and offensive coordi-
nator, has seen improvements in 
Franks’ conﬁ  dence as well, but is 
quick to point out that he has a long 
way to go in his development.
“He’s still a redshirt freshman, so 
there’s all different kinds of things,” Nuss-meier said. “He has great, great belief in his arm strength, so at times we’ve got to teach him that you can’t make every throw and sometimes you can’t throw it through three guys.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Franks: The Favorite 
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Kyle Trask is in his high school coach’s 
ofﬁ  ce, and he’s angry. 
He’s not the starter on the Manvel High 
School football team. He’s stuck on the sidelines watching D’Eriq King, the top quarterback in the Houston area.
“King ﬁ  nished as Texas’ 
all-time leader in touchdown passes. (He) threw 126,” 
Manvel coach Kirk Martin 
said. “That’s No. 1 in 6A.”
Even though Martin is 
compelled to keep King 
as the starting quarter-
back, he doesn’t let 
Trask’s talent go to 
waste. The 6-foot-4 pro-style quarter-back has an arm 
that most high 
school coaches 
would kill for, so Martin puts Trask under center on ev-ery third and seventh series. 
Although  
for the most part, Trask is stuck backing up King. 
But that’s not why 
he’s angry as he sits in Martin’s ofﬁ  ce. 
He’s angry because 
people think not be-ing the starter will stop him. He’s angry peo-ple think he’s going to settle for second-string or transfer to another school. 
Martin remembers what 
Trask told him. “He said these words: ‘There’s gonna be competition wherever I go, and I’m not running from competi-tion.’”
Now, Trask is in the most contentious 
competition of his life. 
He’s vying to be the Gators start-
ing quarterback against four-star recruit Feleipe Franks. 
Today, the two will play in Florida’s 
Orange and Blue Debut, the last game-like environment for the two QBs to make an impression on coach Jim McElwain and his staff, as each tries to separate himself before the season starts in Fall.
The main criticism of UF’s football 
team over the recent years has been the lack of a consistent quarterback. 
Going into September, the Gators could 
be missing the two quarterbacks who started in 2016. Luke Del Rio may still be recovering from shoulder surgery as the 
season gets underway, and Austin Ap-
pleby has aged out of UF. 
That leaves the two redshirt 
freshmen, Trask and Franks, as 
the frontrunners for the coveted starting job. 
Martin calls Trask the best story 
in football. A second-stringer 
who worked hard enough 
and was persistent 
enough to earn him-
self a scholarship at 
a ﬂ  agship football 
school.
“There are small 
schools I couldn’t 
get to bite on him, 
and here you have an 
SEC school,” Martin said. 
But make no mis-
take, Martin believes 
Trask has big-league 
talent.
“The NFL wants 
guys like Trask. Pro-
style quarterback, big arm who can make 
every throw, analytical 
mind, tall to see over 
the line of scrimmage.”
Those traits could go 
to waste if Trask doesn’t 
get a chance to start in 
college. 
But Trask is still 
undeterred. He’s learned to 
turn the doubt into a chip on his shoulder. 
“It taught me to never 
take a rep off, make every 
rep count,” Trask said. “I’m always in a competition.” 
Martin knows Trask 
won't shy away from the 
challenge. 
"He's gonna be there 'til 
the bitter end," Martin said, "ﬁ  ghting, scratching, clawing 
to get on the grass."
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgTrask:  The Underdog
The four-star quarterback from Craw-
fordville, Florida, had just completed a 
senior campaign at Wakulla High School 
that saw him throw for 2,766 yards, 35 
touchdowns and two interceptions.
His passer rating of 137.0 was one of 
the best marks in the country as well, and 
his 6-foot-6, 219-pound frame 
gave him rare size and mea-
surables that left many 
college scouts drooling.
However, when 
Franks ﬁ  nally made his 
highly anticipated debut 
in front of Gators fans at 
Florida’s Spring game 
on April 8, 2016, his 
performance was 
less than stellar.
Playing un-
der the bright 
lights of Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium, Franks 
struggled mightily against 
UF’s ﬁ  rst-team defense, 
throwing an interception 
on each of his opening 
three series.
An 18-year-old 
Franks turned things 
around slightly at the 
end of the contest, toss-
ing a 16-yard touch-
down to tight end 
C’yontai Lewis, but by 
then the damage had 
already been done.
Franks, while 
loaded with talent 
and potential, 
showed that he 
was simply not 
ready to lead 
Florida’s of-
fense in 2016 
and instead 
sat out the 
year behind 
Luke Del 
Rio and 
Austin  
Appleby.
“You  
er’s offense, Franks feels 
ready to take over as 
UF’s quarterback of 
the future.
The redshirt 
freshman has made 
tremendous strides 
this Spring on the 
mental side of the 
game, learning 
how to read 
defenses  
more con-
sistently  
while also 
improving 
on his prep-
aration in 
the class-
room.
Although 
he is cur-
rently in a 
tight battle 
for the start-
ing job with fel-
low gunslinger Kyle 
Trask, Franks said the 
two frequently help each 
other and use the competi-
tion as fuel to improve their 
games.
“It’s going to get each and 
every one of us better,” he said. 
“I’m working my butt off every 
day for that opportunity.”
Nussmeier, Florida’s quarter-
backs coach and offensive coordi-
nator, has seen improvements in 
Franks’ conﬁ  dence as well, but is 
quick to point out that he has a long 
way to go in his development.
“He’s still a redshirt freshman, so 
there’s all different kinds of things,” Nuss-
meier said. “He has great, great belief in 
his arm strength, so at times we’ve got 
to teach him that you can’t make every 
throw and sometimes you can’t throw it 
through three guys.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 
WHEN QUARTERBACKS COLLIDE
sidelines watching D’Eriq King, the top 
quarterback in the Houston area.
“King ﬁ  nished as Texas’ 
all-time leader in touchdown 
passes. (He) threw 126,” 
Manvel coach Kirk Martin 
said. “That’s No. 1 in 6A.”
Even though Martin is 
compelled to keep King 
as the starting quarter-
back, he doesn’t let 
Trask’s talent go to 
waste. The 6-foot-4 
pro-style quarter-
back has an arm 
that most high 
school coaches 
would kill for, 
so Martin puts 
Trask under 
center on ev-
ery third and 
seventh series. 
Although  
for the most 
part, Trask is 
stuck backing 
But that’s not why 
he’s angry as he sits in 
Martin’s ofﬁ  ce. 
He’s angry because 
people think not be-
ing the starter will stop 
him. He’s angry peo-
ple think he’s going to 
settle for second-string 
or transfer to another 
Martin remembers what 
Trask told him. “He said these words: 
‘There’s gonna be competition wherever 
I go, and I’m not running from competi-
Now, Trask is in the most contentious 
competition of his life. 
He’s vying to be the Gators start-
ing quarterback against four-star recruit 
Feleipe Franks. 
Today, the two will play in Florida’s 
Orange and Blue Debut, the last game-like 
environment for the two QBs to make 
an impression on coach Jim McElwain 
and his staff, as each tries to separate 
season gets underway, and Austin Ap-
pleby has aged out of UF. 
That leaves the two redshirt 
freshmen, Trask and Franks, as 
the frontrunners for the coveted 
starting job. 
Martin calls Trask the best story 
in football. A second-stringer 
who worked hard enough 
and was persistent 
enough to earn him-
self a scholarship at 
a ﬂ  agship football 
school.
schools I couldn’t 
get to bite on him, 
and here you have an 
SEC school,” Martin 
said. 
take, Martin believes 
Trask has big-league 
talent.
“The NFL wants 
guys like Trask. Pro-
style quarterback, big 
arm who can make 
every throw, analytical 
mind, tall to see over 
the line of scrimmage.”
Those traits could go 
to waste if Trask doesn’t 
get a chance to start in 
college. 
But Trask is still 
undeterred. He’s learned to 
turn the doubt into a chip on 
his shoulder. 
“It taught me to never 
take a rep off, make every 
rep count,” Trask said. “I’m 
always in a competition.” 
Martin knows Trask 
won't shy away from the 
challenge. 
"He's gonna be there 'til 
the bitter end," Martin said, 
"ﬁ  ghting, scratching, clawing 
to get on the grass."
mbrannon@alligator.org
Florida's annual Spring football game kicks off tonight at 7:30.14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Weather has been a factor for the UF 
men’s tennis team recently. 
On Saturday, the No. 14 Gators (13-7, 
6-2 SEC) faced off with No. 24 Kentucky 
in a match that was moved indoors due to weather.
“Our rules state that the temperature 
has to be 50 (degrees Fahrenheit) or above for two out of the three hours,” coach 
Bryan Shelton said. “And there was a lot 
of confusion on that day because at the time we looked, we were actually above the 50-degree mark for two of the three hours.” He continued, “It should have been an outdoor match. I think the SEC 
made a mistake that day. They have since 
apologized for the mistake they made.”
Unprepared for an indoor match, 
Florida fell to Kentucky 4-1. Elliott Orkin 
was the lone Gator victor on the speedy 
indoor surface. But as a team, the Gators have learned from their experience in Lexington.
“Hindsight is always 20/20,” Shelton 
said. “We could have practiced inside the day before had we known we could go in-side and we chose not to do that. So that’s on me.”
Now Florida will have to consider all 
possible conditions when it faces off with 
No. 13 Georgia (13-6, 9-0 SEC) in Athens 
tonight at 6 p.m. The Bulldogs currently sit atop the SEC conference rankings and are expected to face the Gators in tough 
weather conditions, meaning that another 
indoor match could be on the table. 
“We know that the forecast for Friday is 
that it’s going to be very windy,” Shelton said. “So there’re certain things we’ve got 
be aware of.”
Windy conditions cause for a lot of un-
predictability in play, meaning that key adjustments must be made in footwork 
and hitting margins. 
“We’ve got be moving our feet,” Shel-
ton said. “If you set your feet too early, the ball starts going in a different direction and you’re in trouble. We can’t aim for the lines in those types of conditions. You’ve 
got to play more margins, more safely.”
From Athens, Florida will travel to 
Knoxville to face Tennessee on Sunday in 
the last true away match of the dual sea-son for the Gators. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSEC apologizes to Gators men’s tennis for moving match indoors   
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Bryan Shelton addresses his players during Florida’s 4-2 win over UCLA on Feb. 5 at the Ring T ennis 
Complex. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Elliott Orkin hits a ball during Florida’s 4-2 win over UCLA on Feb. 5 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
KEY PERFORMERS IN 2016 
ORANGE AND BLUE DEBUT
Charles Hatcher /  Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain walks into Spring practice on March 22. 
QBs:
RBs:WRs:Luke Del Rio
Austin Appleby
Feleipe Franks
Kyle Trask10-of-11 passing8-of-11 passing
5-of-11 passing
4-of-7 passing176 yards80 yards
58 yards
63 yards2 TDs
3 INTs
Mark Thompson
Mark Herndon
Jordan Cronkrite
Jordan Scarlett5 carries8 carries
3 carries
7 carries46 yards21 yards
19 yards
5 yards1 TD
C’yontai Lewis (TE)C.J. Worton
Dre Massey
Mark ThompsonJosh Hammond5 catches2 catches
2 catches
3 catches3 catches79 yards62 yards
29 yards
25 yards24 yards1 TD
1 TD16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Tyrie Cleveland cradles the ball during Spring practice on March 22 at the Sanders Practice Fields. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Defensive back Chauncey Gardner practices on March 22. 
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators football team hasn’t 
produced a 1,000-yard receiver since 
2002.
That fact isn’t lost on Tyrie Cleveland.“Back in the years they had (Tim) 
Tebow, the offense was explosive,” the rising sophomore said on Wednesday. 
“We’re trying to get back to that 
offense.”
Entering his second season, Cleveland 
is part of what should be one of UF’s most talented receiving corps in recent memory. 
The group will be on full display to-
night during Florida’s annual Spring 
scrimmage.
“We’re ready to come put on a show,” 
Cleveland said.
Cleveland, a former four-star recruit, is 
coming off a decent freshman season. 
He injured his hamstring early in the 
year but finished with 298 yards and a pair of touchdowns, including a 98-yard 
catch and score to help secure the SEC East title against LSU on Nov. 19.
And while Cleveland is expected to 
make a big leap with another year of fa-miliarity in Florida’s system, an even big-ger jump is expected of rising junior An-tonio Callaway.
Callaway followed his breakout fresh-
man season with a solid sophomore year in 2016, finishing with a team-high 54 catches, 721 receiving yards and three touchdowns.
But coaches have noticed a change in 
Callaway this Spring.
“His quickness and his speed and his 
ability to make plays downfield — he’s one of the best in the country in my opin-ion,” wide receivers coach Kerry Dixon said. 
“You can just see the development and 
the understanding of the offense and his route-running is starting to turn over. 
"It’s been phenomenal.” Gardner confident in defensive back 
unit: 
Chauncey Gardner’s breakout game 
came in January.
He was named the Outback Bowl MVP, 
racking up two interceptions at safety in place of injured teammate Marcus Maye.
Gardner believes the performance was 
a sign of things to come.
“Us losing eight (starters) is not going 
to matter,” he said. “We’ve got eight more that can do the same thing those eight can do.”
Entering next season, Florida’s defen-
sive backs group will experience one of the largest turnovers on the team.
Former starting defensive backs Jalen 
Tabor, Quincy Wilson and Maye all de-clared for the upcoming NFL Draft and will likely be replaced by veterans Marcell Harris, Duke Dawson and Nick Washing-ton. 
And, according to defensive backs 
coach Corey Bell, Gardner will see much more playing time.
“As long as he’s on the field,” Bell said, 
“we’re a better football team.”
Bell said Gardner is versatile enough to 
play at either safety or corner. And for a defensive back unit without much depth, Gardner figures to play a large role in Florida’s secondary next season.
“He’s maturing as a player and as a 
man,” Harris said. “You can see it in his game.”
Harris will be the leader of a second-
ary that tallied 16 interceptions and lim-ited opponents to 148.5 passing yards per game, good for second in the country.
And even though Florida will lose three 
of its starting defensive backs, Harris expects the dropoff to be minimal.
“There’s a standard to uphold,” Harris 
said. “We’re DBU, and we’re always going to be DBU.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgCleveland, receivers looking for improvement in scrimmageNOTEBOOKDre was pretty much the ideal video 
game quarterback. He had the vision to 
find holes in the defense and the speed 
to jet through them untouched. He could 
make tacklers miss or just run around them. And nobody — not even now, if you ask him — could catch him. 
“He’s the best athlete and best football 
player I’ve ever coached, and I’ve been coaching for 28 years,” Taylor said. “If you watch him, he doesn’t look like he’s put-ting forth any effort, and he’s pulling away 
from people.”
His mom remembers newspaper stories 
being written about him weekly. She also 
remembers a kid asking him for his auto-
graph one time after a game. Taylor said 
youth players in the area wanted to wear jersey No. 1 at the time just because Dre was No. 1.
“(But) Dre doesn’t feed off of that,” he 
added. “He’s just Dre.”
Anyone you ask — from coaches to 
his mom to teammates — will tell you Dre doesn’t like the spotlight. He’s never 
performed a touchdown dance. He’s nev-
er spiked a ball in celebration. When he scored his 11th touchdown in an 83-70 vic-tory his senior year, he jogged to the bench and sat down.
“I have a headache,” he told a reporter 
when asked about the game.
Doug Shaw, who was the head coach at 
Mauldin from Dre’s freshman through ju-
nior years, also taught him in health class. 
He said that while Dre tried academically, 
he just didn’t get it a lot of the time. He 
was also — much like he was on the field — quiet. 
“Sometimes,” Shaw said, “I’d have 
to look over and make sure he was still 
there.”
Shaw added that he’d sometimes call 
Dre to remind him about tests or projects 
or homework. “Yes sir. Yes sir. Yes sir,” he’d always say. And he’d try to get the 
concepts.
“I never had a teacher say, ‘Coach, he’s 
just sitting there,’” Shaw said. 
When it was time to go to college, Dre 
was set to go to East Carolina. The Pirates were the only team that’d stuck with him 
knowing he had academic problems, Tay-lor said, and Dre appreciated that. But he didn’t get the necessary SAT scores. 
Taylor was on vacation when he got a 
call letting him know Dre didn’t make it. The call came from Jeff Koonz, the football coach at Holmes Community College in Goodman, Mississippi. Koonz knew about 
Dre’s academic struggles and had offered 
him a backup plan: If he didn’t qualify for ECU, he could go to Holmes for two sea-sons and, if his grades improved, transfer 
somewhere else. 
With ECU not happening, that’s what 
he had to do. 
•   •   •
In Goodman, Mississippi, there are 
no street lights. Just one four-way stop. 
There’s no interstate. That’s 30 minutes 
away. There aren’t any McDonald’s. Just a 
local burger place called Rick’s. 
“It’s like a third-world country,” Koonz 
said. 
But it was what Dre chose. “He did not like it here,” Koonz said. 
“He did not wanna be here. But most guys bitch and complain. He wasn’t a bitch-and-complainer. He did something about it.”
What he did was earn All-State and 
First Team All-Region honors in his sopho-more season by hauling in 548 yards on 21 catches with six touchdowns. He was also the team’s Swiss Army knife, playing 
receiver, quarterback, running back and 
even punter. 
As a result of his success, he earned 
scholarship offers from schools like Okla-
homa, Auburn and hometown South Caro-
lina. But when UF assistant coach Randy Shannon offered at Florida, there was no doubt about where he was going. 
A few weeks after he committed to UF, 
he was back in South Carolina when he went to the post office with his mom. He needed to pick up his acceptance letter. 
His mom didn’t know that, though, and 
when he showed her the letter, she had to pull over in the parking lot to weep. 
Dre captured the moment on Snapchat, 
captioning it, “Tears of joy man.” It was the realization of a talk Dre once had with 
Taylor. 
 “You know coach,” Dre told him, “I 
was supposed to be the one in my family 
to make it.”
“Well you know what?” Taylor an-
swered. “Make it then.”
•   •   •
Dre didn’t have to shake his man. He 
just sprinted past him and darted down the field. 
Luke Del Rio saw him from 19 yards away and fired. Touchdown. 
Dre grazed through the end zone and 
listened to the Swamp hum. He pointed to the sky and looked up. He was swarmed 
by his teammates. It was only the 2016 
Spring game, but when McElwain brought Dre to Florida, he had these moments in mind.  That’s why, five months later, Tay-
lor was confused.
When the regular season started, he 
watched Florida’s first game with his wife. 
He noticed Dre wasn’t playing, but he didn’t know about the injury. So he texted 
him the next morning. The 20-plus-year 
coaching veteran just wanted to check in on the player he called the best he’s ever coached. 
Dre told him the news: torn ACL.“I’ve been through so much in my life,” 
Dre added. “This is just something else I’m gonna have to overcome.”
To do so, he turned to three things: 
Faith, family and recovery. 
Koonz described Dre as not being 
outward with his religion. He’s no Tim Tebow. But he is someone who brings up 
God in conversation. So to him, this was 
just another trying step on an unknowable path. When it happened, he told his mom not to worry. God had his back. 
“That’s probably why when a lot of 
things happen to me,” he said, “I don’t really get down. Because my faith’s so strong.”
Dre’s mom calls him every day, tim-
ing their conversations around football practice. When he goes home to visit, she cooks him his favorite meal (chili dogs) and watches movies with him (horror flicks are his favorite, although she refuses to watch them). She rides along to McDon-
ald’s, where Dre gets his usual McDouble 
and vanilla shake. She went to games even though he was limited to the sideline and by crutches. She still reminds him to go to 
church. 
“She’s my everything,” he said.
To recover, Dre often woke up before 
sunrise for physical therapy. He wanted to be ready for the season. And while he’s 
still in a brace, he said he’s pretty much 
back to full speed after seven months of training. 
Doctors told him he shouldn’t overdo it 
during his recovery. To take it slow. To do less. But Dre didn’t listen. 
“Having that competitive aspect, you 
want to get back to the field,” he said. “So you want to do more.”
Dre said he plans to graduate early with 
a degree in criminology and pursue a mas-ter’s in sports management. But for now, football is still his focus. He has NFL as-
pirations, and after a year of waiting, his 
journey to the league can finally begin. 
But what about another possible storm? 
Or another potential injury? Or another prospective setback? The answer lies with 
his mom.
“Just knowing God like we do,” she 
said, “we don’t worry about it.” 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgEthan Bauer / Alligator Staff
While children play in the background, this sign hangs over the playground inside a Mauldin, South Carolina, McDonald’s. Before 
the picture was taken, Dre Massey’s mom, Angela Payne, talked about how signs from God are everywhere. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
MASSEY,  from pg 2Taylor: ‘He’s the best athlete and best football player I’ve ever coached’By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Coach Roland Thornqvist described this 
weekend’s matches against Ole Miss and 
Mississippi State as “another weekend in the SEC.” However, there’s more to it than that.
This weekend marks Florida’s last home 
matches of the regular season. Therefore, Sunday will be the last time seniors Belinda Woolcock, Kourtney Keegan and Spencer Liang play at the Ring Tennis Complex for 
Florida. 
Combined, the trio boasts a 128-42 record 
in singles play. Keegan will leave Florida 
with at least one national championship after she and junior Brooke Austin won the NCAA 
doubles title last season. However, coach 
Thornqvist said it’s about more than wins 
and losses. 
“Three players who have graced us with 
not just a lot of wins but professionalism,” he 
said. “The human side to all three of them is 
something that we’re going to miss greatly.”
An example of this came at what was 
perhaps the team’s darkest moment this sea-
son. Down 3-1 against Georgia, the match on 
Court 6 between Keegan and UGA’s Mariana 
Gould was winding down. It was the clincher 
for Georgia, as Gould narrowly beat Keegan 6-2, 7-6 (5) to hand the Gators their ﬁ  rst and only loss of the season and end their historic 
home-winning streak. 
After that match, the umpire told Thorn-
qvist that he had never seen a player lose 
with more Grace than Keegan did. 
“Those are words you, as a coach, just 
love hearing,” he said. “And I think that goes for all three of them.”
Keegan and Woolcock have been instru-
mental this season with singles records of 8-1 and 9-3, respectively. Woolcock has es-pecially helped the Gators in doubles, as she and her partner, Josie Kuhlman, own a 15-2 record. 
Although Liang hasn’t played as much 
this season, she’s been the team’s go-to next 
player up. Thornqvist praised her attitude 
and professionalism as she helped last week-
end, going in for a ﬂ  u-ridden Anna Danilina. 
While the Gators still have two remaining 
regular-season matches following this week-
end, Thornqvist said Sunday will be very 
emotional.
“They’ve been great leaders,” he said. 
“They’ve been great in the locker room, 
great in the community, great in the student body here, great in the student-athlete com-munity…. They’ve done so much for us, so Sunday’s going to be very bittersweet.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org 
HERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
In the ﬁ  nal moments of Tuesday night’s game be-tween the Indiana Pacers and Toronto Raptors, Pac-ers guard Lance Stephen-
son scored an uncontested la-yup with 3.3 seconds left in the game. The blue-and-gold-clad crowd in Bankers Life Field-house in Indianapolis erupted with excited applause.
There was just one problem.
Indiana was already up 15 points be-
fore Stephenson — who signed a three-year, $12 million deal to come back to Indiana on 
March 29, according to ESPN’s Chris Haynes 
— tacked on the extra layup in the meaning-less ﬁ  nal seconds of the Pacers’ 108-90 blow-out of the Raptors.
Toronto took exception.As Stephenson trotted back down the 
court, he was met by a wall of angry Raptors, including forward P.J. Tucker and All-Star guard DeMar DeRozan.
After the game, Toronto coach Dwane 
Casey called Stephenson’s play “bush league.”
Tucker was less polite.“Tasteless,” Tucker said, per Vigilant 
Sports’ Scott Agness. “Classless. There’s no-where in the league for that.”
DeRozan added to that sentiment, telling 
ESPN reporters that Stephenson’s layup was “disrespectful to the game.”
Honestly, Tucker, DeRozan and the Rap-
tors organization just need to shut up.
If I were them, I’d be more upset with 
the defense surrendering 35 points to Paul George, or allowing the Pacers to shoot nearly 48 percent from beyond the arc, or with new-ly acquired forward Serge Ibaka scoring eight points on 3-of-13 shooting.
Yes, what Stephenson did was not neces-
sarily the right thing to do. Maybe it was class-less, tasteless or whatever you want to call it. Even his own teammates acknowledged what Stephenson did was wrong.But Toronto should be the last 
team to criticize Stephenson for such a play.
In a game with the Philadel-
phia 76ers during the 2015-16 
season, then-Raptors rookie Nor-
man Powell stole an inbounds pass, raced down the court and threw down a windmill dunk with 1.2 seconds left on the clock. 
His team was leading by 22.
Did the 76ers’ players complain? Did they 
confront Powell on the court and then bad-mouth him to the media after the game? 
No. They inbounded the ball, the game 
clock expired, and they walked off the court. Simple as that. 
Obviously, basketball has its unwritten 
rules, and scoring in the ﬁ  nal moments of a game when your team has a huge lead is as close to a basketball sin as it gets.
But still, get over it.Worry more about what you did wrong 
to ultimately put yourself down 15 in the ﬁ  rst place, especially when you’re guilty of committing the same “sin.”
 DeRozan, Raptors need to shut 
up about Lance Stephenson
The Associated Press
Lance Stephenson makes a face during 
Indiana’s game against T oronto on April 1.
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994 Thornqvist reﬂ  ects on seniors 
Woolcock, Liang and Keegan
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kourtney Keegan returns a ball during 
UF’s win over Oklahoma State on Feb. 18
20   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017INSIDE
Receiver Dre Massey is hoping to finally get on the field, plus a 
breakdown of UF’s quarterback battle ahead of the 2017 Spring game.
ONLINE
For complete coverage of Friday’s game, go to alligator.org/sports
‘JUST KEEP 
MOVING’  
Facing the latest in a long line of setbacks, 
Dre Massey worked, trained and prayed. Now, entering what should be his ﬁ  rst full season at Florida, he’s hoping to ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nd salvation.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 2017
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
From her seat in Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium, Angela Payne’s eyes focused on her 
son. She watched him grab the season’s 
opening kickoff and return it 21 yards. She 
watched him get stopped by a defender and slammed onto another player and the ground. She watched him jog off the field.
But then she couldn’t watch him any-
more. Dre Massey didn’t come back. 
About a dozen of his closest family and 
friends were there to watch the wideout play in his first game for the Gators, and 
they were all asking the same question: 
Where’s Dre? 
His mom doesn’t remember how long 
she waited, but sometime during the game, 
a text message from a UF coach gave her 
an answer.
“We’ve got Dre here in the back,” it 
read.
There’s no greater fear for the single 
mother of one than her only child getting hurt, so she turned to her faith for strength. 
The 42-year-old believes God has a plan 
for Dre. She believes God will deliver him 
through any difficulty. She constantly sees 
signs of His presence. But until the game ended, all she could do was wait and pray. 
After the game, she scurried down to 
the south end of the stadium near the Bull Gator statue. She rumbled down the stairs 
and entered a room where Dre was lying on a table in shorts and a T-Shirt. He was 
silent.
After sitting with him for several min-
utes while a trainer rubbed his knee, an-
other trainer came in with the diagnosis.
Dre had torn his right ACL. The four-
star junior college transfer — the one 
coach Jim McElwain had raved about; the one who was supposed to be a playmaker; 
the one who was supposed to help fix Flor-
ida’s long-broken offense — was going to miss his first season at UF after one play. 
Was this what it had all been for? Was 
this why he’d clawed for the grades to qualify for Florida? Was this the result of all the storms — the moving, disappoint-ment and death — he’d endured? Was this why he prayed?
To him and his mom, there was no 
doubt what this was. It was another sign. Another test. Another hurdle. Another part of a plan they couldn’t control.
That’s why, after hearing the diagnosis, 
Dre turned to his mom and smiled. 
“OK,” he told her. “Here we go again.”
•   •   •
On a recent Saturday, Dre’s mom sat in 
a South Carolina McDonald’s sipping wa-ter through a straw. She was talking about 
the hardships her son had suffered. She 
was talking about his faith. Their faith. How they see signs of God everywhere. 
Suddenly, she gestured toward the restau-
rant’s indoor playground. “Look at that,” she said as several kids 
yelped their way down a plastic slide. 
“No,” she said, pointing at the play-
ground again. “Look.”
There, above the shoe storage area, was 
a large black sign with bold white letters: Obstacle.
“Wow,” she said with a laugh.“We can go somewhere and hear a 
word, and it’s confirmation from God.
“(That’s why) when obstacles come his 
way... he doesn’t even let it bother him. 
He’s just like, ‘God got me.’” 
As a kid, Dre never had to be hounded 
about chores. He took out the trash and 
washed the dishes. He kept his clothes on 
their hangers and his shoes orderly. But 
the one thing his mom constantly had to harass him about waking up at 9 a.m. ev-ery Sunday for church. 
“He felt like it’s Sunday. It’s time to 
rest,” Angela said. “Oooh no. You’re get-ting up to go to church.”
She was raised a Baptist by her mother, 
who made sure she went to church as a 
child. So when Dre was born, she did the 
same thing by taking him to the non-de-nominational Redemption World Outreach Center in Greenville, South Carolina, every Sunday morning at 10. By doing so, she in-
stilled in Dre her devotion to Christianity.
“He loves God,” Angela said. “And 
when I tell you he really trusts Him, he 
really trusts Him.”
Aside from religion, Dre grew up play-
ing football. Or basketball. Or soccer. Any-thing, really, as long as he was outside. 
Living in an apartment in Gray Court, 
South Carolina — a neighborhood of fewer than 1,000 people near Greenville — his family wanted him to stay active. His mom said the area — the same one where she 
met his father in high school — had drug 
problems, with dealers sometimes openly doing business on street corners. To help Dre avoid that, she kept him on the field. 
Dre was always the star player, starting 
with flag football at 5 years old and youth tackle leagues later on. When he had the ball, he could score every time. 
In class, he had trouble focusing. He 
couldn’t comprehend lessons as quickly as his peers. In elementary school, he was diagnosed with ADHD.
At the same time, some of his relatives 
died, and others ended up in prison for reasons he and his mom didn’t want to get into. His focus, however, never wavered from football. God was still guarding him. 
“He doesn’t let it affect him,” his mom 
said. “Just keeps moving.”
Because of Dre’s football talent, other 
members of his family told his mom she should move him somewhere — any-
where — to give him more of a spotlight. 
A chance to succeed. A chance to get away from trouble. 
She eventually found Mauldin, a suburb 
of Greenville, and settled in there. The lo-
cal high school was fairly well known for 
sports — retired NBA star Kevin Garnett is an alumnus — and Dre figured it would be a chance for him to stand out. 
  “So we went over there,” Dre 
said, “and I started sports... hoping I would make a name for myself.”
 But with his freshman year at 
Mauldin High School weeks away, that 
mission was jeopardized when his father 
died in a car accident.
He didn’t want to talk about it — and 
still doesn’t. His coaches at Mauldin could 
see it affected him — especially in the 
classroom — but his mom said he never brought it up. When asked recently how he moved past it, he gave a familiar an-swer. 
“I guess like every other kid do,” he 
said. “Just keep moving.”
•   •   •
Dre couldn’t focus after his dad’s death. 
As a freshman at Mauldin, his grades tanked. His ADHD didn’t get better. And 
as for football, he was placed on Mauldin’s 
third-tier freshman team. 
Several months later, the varsity team’s 
starting quarterback broke his collarbone 
during spring practice. Coaches needed a 
replacement, so they gave Dre a shot. 
“It was over after that,” then-offensive 
coordinator Lee Taylor said. “He started every game from there on.”
At the time, Dre wasn’t a polished pass-
er. But he could run, and he could make plays.
Taylor had to raise his voice at him 
once after a four-interception performance against Greenville his sophomore year, but he said after that, he never had to again. 
“We kinda just threw him to the 
wolves,” he said, “and I’ll tell you what: 
He shined from then on.”
He also never missed a play, as far as 
Taylor can remember, in his time as a 
starter. 
“He took a lot of hits throughout his 
three years,” he said. “Especially his 10th-grade year. But he always got up.”In troubling times, Dre Massey turned to God and to himself
He learned that from his mother
Courtesy of Angela Payne
Dre Massey poses for a picture around the age of 12. It was around this time that Dre started growing out his dreadlocks, which 
he hasn’t gotten rid of in the decade since. 
SEE MASSEY,  PAGE 19