We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 99 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
Freshman gymnast growing up fast
Sierra Alexander went from competing in 
front of 100 fans to 14,000 on Friday, pg. 14
Pipeline marchers sell black water at Wells Fargo
They were protesting the Dakota Access Pipeline, pg. 4
UF’s director of Black Aﬀ  airs resigning
She cited a “changing” situation at UF, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
In Fall, Marina Tsongranis will 
no longer be able to grab her weekly caramel latte and honey wheat ba-gel from Einstein Bros. Bagels in the Hub.
Einstein’s will close at the end of 
Spring, leaving Tsongranis to ﬁ  nd another place to grab breakfast on UF’s campus. Jill Rodriguez, the marketing program manager for Gator Dining Services, wrote in an 
email that the restaurant is closing to 
make way for an expanded Chick-ﬁ  l-A to include breakfast items.
The changes should be done by 
the start of Fall, Rodriguez said. 
The Chick-ﬁ  l-A will expand into the space where the P.O.D Market is, and P.O.D Market will move into the space currently occupied by Einstein Bros., Rodriguez said.
“With the expansion of Chick-ﬁ  l-
A, we will be able to incorporate the Chick-ﬁ  l-A breakfast program which students have been asking for over the years, so we feel it will be a very positive change,” Rodriguez said.A new Au Bon Pain is also set 
to open in Newell Hall in April, she added. 
Tsongranis, a 20-year-old UF 
natural resource conservation soph-omore, said she’ll be sad to see the restaurant leave UF’s campus. 
“Taking away Einstein’s, it would 
just make it a lot more difﬁ  cult, and I think unhealthier, for me to be grab-bing fried chicken in the morning instead of a bagel and coffee,” she said.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email that because the project is still in the design stage, a cost hasn’t been determined. 
Rodriguez said the current and 
past Student Government adminis-trations helped make the decision, along with Gator Dining Services and Business Services Division. 
 UF’s Einstein Bros. closing, Chick-ﬁ  l-A expanding
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
 #NoDAPL
Abee (right), a 20-year-old who declined to give her last name, and Joseph Ryan, 24, lead a small group of protesters on University Avenue while chanting, “You can’t drink oil, keep it in the soil. ” The group met up with another group of protestors at the Wells Fargo & Co. bank, located at 104 N. Main St., in an attempt to ask them to divest from energy transfer partners. The group also aimed to stand in solidarity with the Dakota Standing Rock Sioux tribe. 
LOCAL
By Jake Best
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gainesville residents have un-
til Monday to register to vote. 
For the ﬁ  rst time since the 
presidential election, Gainesville residents can go to the polls to ﬁ  ll three, nonpartisan City Commis-
sion seats. 
The election on March 14 will 
include races for the District 2 
seat, the District 3 seat and the 
At-Large District 2 seat, said Kim A. Barton, Alachua County’s su-pervisor of elections. 
A city commissioner might do 
anything from voting on taxes, 
county services and programs, 
she said. 
This week, about 9,000 vote-by-mail ballots were sent out, but 
residents have until March 8 to 
request one, according to a Super-
visor of Elections press release. 
To register, residents can visit 
the Supervisor of Elections Of-
ﬁ  ce, located at 515 N. Main St., or download the form at votealach-ua.com, Barton said. Applications 
can be dropped off or mailed in 
by Monday.
She encouraged all residents to 
vote because decisions made on  Voter registration deadline nears for March city electionsConstruction will begin at the end of Spring
SEE EINSTEIN’S,  PAGE 4
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 4By Isabel Bonnet
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of about 50 interna-
tional students sought answers 
and support from faculty members at Santa Fe College on Wednesday. 
Santa Fe President Jackson 
Sasser, alongside members of the Counseling and International Stu-dent Center, gathered to meet with the students in a show of sup-port following President Donald Trump’s travel ban.
Of the 300 international stu-
dents attending Santa Fe, about 10 of them are from the seven coun-tries affected by the ban.
One such student,  who re-
quested anonymity for fear of her safety, said she constantly feels judged by Americans for being Muslim.
Before arriving in Gainesville 
two months ago and enrolling at Santa Fe, she ﬂ  ed from Syria to Qatar in 2011, escaping in time to avoid being caught in the middle of Syria’s bloody civil war. 
Friends and family members 
were not so lucky, becoming vic-tims of the bloody battle.
After hearing about Trump’s 
executive orders barring the entry of citizens from seven Musilm-majority nations — and freezing the acceptance of Syrian refugees indeﬁ  nitely — she “cried her eyes out.”
“My sister-in-law is giving 
birth, and my mom was supposed to take the plane today to be with her,” she said. “She had to cancel the trip.”
While trying to get her driver’s 
licence, she said she felt scared and paranoid.
“I was scared they would tell 
me they couldn’t issue my license  Santa Fe officials 
offer international students support
SEE INTERNATIONAL,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 99
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  74° LOW  39°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The Diversity Project’
“The Diversity Project” will ex-
plore issues with a focus on race 
and class through storytelling and theater. It will provide a safe environment to share your expe-
riences at UF. Your story may 
be incorporated into a live the-
atrical/multimedia performance, which will become a platform 
for discussion and possible so-
lutions. Students are invited to join today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3310. Faculty and staff are invited Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2315. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at JeffPuf@ufl.edu for more infor-mation.
UF Symphony Orchestra concert 
today The UF Symphony Orchestra, conducted by UF’s School of Music professor Raymond Chobaz, presents a concert to-day at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. The UF Symphony Orchestra will perform songs by Liszt, Creston, Tomasi and Kodaly. The concert is free and open to the public. For more in-formation, please visit arts.ufl.edu/orchestra.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with as-sistance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is producing an empowerment art show and performance art showcase for the semiannual anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Friday and Saturday at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. A public display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on both days from noon to 6 p.m. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more informa-tion.
A Valentine’s night at the mu-
seum Spend Valentine’s Day eve-ning at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia. The museum is open from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The fee is $30 per person or $50 per couple. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Pre-registration is required. For 
more information or to register, 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/
grid/valentine-event or call 352-
273-2061.
Kristian Black on being a person 
of color in medicine
Kristian Black, a second 
year medical student at the University of Michigan and ad-
missions ambassador at the 
University of Michigan Medical 
School, will speak about how he navigates his identity as a black man within a top-10 university 
Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at 
UF’s Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs classroom in the Reitz Union, Room 2201. The event will be hosted by Asian Pacific 
Islander American (APIA) 
Affairs and Black Affairs.
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
UF graduate and MythBuster
Tracy Fanara, a contestant on “MythBusters: The Search” and UF engineering graduate, will speak at the Marston Science Library on Feb. 16 at 2 p.m. in Room L136 (Marston first floor). Fanara, who is a scientist at the Mote Marine Laboratory, will speak on her “MythBusters” experience, research on Florida beaches and waterways and storm chasing. The iSTEAM Speaker Series presents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technology, engineer-ing, arts and/or math.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealthIsabel Moreira will explore the relationship between wealth, almsgiving and perceptions of the afterlife in Europe between the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take place Feb. 16 at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, visit humanities-center@ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.
An evening of Finnish folk music
Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music” on Mar. 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. Ave. The performing and songwrit-ing team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English as well as their native language, Finnish, and also per-form traditional ballads from the Finnish and Scandinavian folk traditions. This free musical pro-
gram will be in Meeting Room 
A. For more information about 
library programs, visit aclib.us/
events or call 352-334-3900.
‘Words on Canvas’: the Harn 
writing competition
Write yourself into the art mu-
seum. “Words on Canvas” is a poetry and prose writing com-
petition at the Samuel P. Harn 
Museum of Art for UF and Santa 
Fe College students inspired by art. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines 
at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. 
The deadline to enter is March 
17. 
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3
How can you practice af-
firmative consent? Learn some strategies from Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign Phase 3. Check it out at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/ or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-4452 for more information and to request materials.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION:
In an article published Feb. 7 
titled "City mourns former may-
or, UF athlete," the Alligator 
incorrectly stated Perry McGriff Jr. worked for McGriff-Williams Insurance. He worked for State 
Farm Insurance. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9th
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Nick Goebel’s grandmother died 
before he could tell her he was gay.
But in April, the UF student may 
ﬁ  nally get a chance — with the 
help of a TV-famous psychic medi-
um scheduled to visit Gainesville.
“I wonder what she would 
say about it now,” said Goebel, a 
20-year-old public relations sopho-more.
On April 20, Theresa Caputo, 
the star of TLC’s “Long Island 
Medium,” will speak with the 
dead and discuss her gift at UF’s O’Connell Center.
The appearance, part of Ca-
puto’s national tour, piqued the interest of O’Connell center orga-nizers, who wanted to offer stu-dents an out-of-the-ordinary form of on-campus entertainment, wrote 
Lynda Reinhart, the director of the O’Connell Center, in an email.
“We are excited to try some-
thing a little different and offer the campus and community an oppor-
tunity to see something new,” she said.
On her show, which is entering 
its ninth season, Caputo juggles her life as a mom while speaking with the dead loved ones of people she meets. Caputo, a practicing medi-um of about 15 years, is being host-
ed by another company, so UF isn’t paying for the show, Reinhart said.
General admission tickets are 
on sale for $39.75 at the O’Connell Center box ofﬁ  ce or on ticketmas-
ter.com. Reinhart said 4,000 tickets  are available, but depending on demand, the amount and price of tickets may change.
Reinhart said purchasing a ticket 
doesn’t guarantee attendees a read-ing, and she isn’t sure how many readings Caputo will conduct.
Goebel said he believes in medi-ums, but isn’t sure Caputo is one, he said.
“I kind of want to gauge for 
myself in like a real-person setting and not like a TV context because I think that’s very gimmicky,” Goeb-el said. “It’s opening up a lot of UF students to things that they don’t think about because we’re such a research-based university.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org 
TV-famous psychic medium  to speak with the dead at UFFIREFIGHTERS FINISH STRONG
Photos by Charles Hatcher, Alligator Staff
New hires with Gainesville Fire Rescue continued participating in drills on Wednesday afternoon. They will 
graduate from their training today and become probationary ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters.
The new hires check each other’s vital signs on Wednesday before heading into burning shipping containers 
for live-burn training at Gainesville Fire Rescue Station 3, located at 900 NE Waldo Road.
Fireﬁ  ghter Devin Chapman watches as a group of new hires does push-ups. Chapman had the group do push-ups because it took some trainees longer than one minute to get dressed.because I’m Syrian,” she said. “It breaks 
my heart that we have to go through this.”
While Angelica Suarez, the Interna-
tional Student Service Coordinator, talk-ed to the students who gathered Wednes-day, she cried and hugged the Syrian student.
“We care for you, I care for all of 
you,” she said. “You’re here because you’re open to learn. Don’t lose hope.”
Other members of the administration 
offered students the chance to sign a direc-tory information exclusion request,which will prevent the college from reporting any personal information about the stu-dents to the U.S Government. 
Fatao Ouedraogo, 21, stood up at the 
end of the meeting to express his concern about an experience when he asked his adviser how to earn financial support to pay for his tuition. He said the adviser told him he could go back to Burkina Faso if he couldn’t pay for his studies.
“The United States is the first or sec-
ond richest country in the world, and I come from one of the poorest countries in the world,” the Santa Fe engineering student said.
Ouedraogo asked Sasser if it was pos-
sible to give a scholarship to people com-ing from countries in crisis, adding that international students pay three times more than in-state students.
“Floridians have paid taxes all of their 
life,” Sasser replied. “There’s a reason for the difference.”4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator staff
Santa Fe College President Jackson Sasser speaks to more than 50 international students on Wednesday afternoon. INTERNATIONAL,  from pg1About 10 are from the countries bannedCRIME
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
In a fit of road rage, a Gainesville 
man threatened another driver with 
a knife, and in retaliation, the driver punched him in the face, Gainesville Police said. 
Wesley Terwilliger Cooke, 33, 
was tailgating cars and swerving in his lane on Northwest 16th Avenue, according to a police report. He sped through traffic and grew increasingly upset behind slow drivers before he stopped at an intersection.
Enraged, he got out of his car and 
approached a truck while taking a folding knife out of his pocket, ac-cording to the report. Cooke swung the knife at the driver as he sped away, the blade dragging along the side of the truck. 
Cooke caught up with the driver 
on Northwest 25th Terrace and got out of his car again, according to the report. 
Cooke tried to punch the driver, 
while he was in his car. The pas-senger of the car climbed onto the roof of the truck to kick Cooke away, according to the report. Cooke then grabbed the passenger by the leg and tried to pull him down.
The driver then got out of the 
truck and punched Cooke in the face, knocking him unconscious, ac-cording to the report. Cooke was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital for a fractured skull 
and brain bleeds before being taken 
to jail, said Officer Ben Tobias, GPD Spokesperson.
Police arrested Cooke on charges 
of aggravated assault and criminal mischief. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, with no bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
Man with road rage attacks driver, ends up unconscious
the local level impact people directly.  
“I’m never going to walk into my grocery 
store and see my president,” Barton said. 
“But I will see my city commissioner.”
Dani LeGrand, 19, said she grew up be-
lieving that local elections weren’t impor-tant, but said she now understands their significance.
“Decisions are made by the people who 
show up,” said the UF political science sophomore who is interning for Sheryl Ed-die, a District 2 candidate.
Susan Bottcher, who has lived in 
Gainesville for over 40 years, served on the city commission from 2011 until 2014. She is now helping Harvey Ward Jr. with his run for the District 2 seat. 
“The likelihood that you’ll be able to talk 
to your local city commissioner or local of-ficial is much higher than a state or national official,” Bottcher said. 
Scott Austin, 23, is the campaign man-
ager for Perry Clawson, the third candidate for the District 2 seat.
“If you really want to be active, local 
elections are the best way to get involved,” the UF telecommunication junior said. 
Austin said he believes Gainesville’s non-
partisan elections are essential so voters see candidates as people, not parties. 
“Republicans don’t haul trash. Demo-
crats don’t repair roads,” he said. “People do.”
ELECTION,  from pg1The election is nonpartisan
Susan Webster, the UF Student Body president, wrote in 
an email that the decision was made based on student inter-
est and the business’ annual sale data. 
“Students are really excited about the prospect of the fa-
mous chicken biscuits coming to campus in the Fall,” Web-
ster said.
SG’s executive branch announced in Summer that Chick-
fil-A would start serving breakfast and expand into the 
P.O.D Market, according to Alligator archives. 
Kathryn Moorhead, a 23-year-old UF food science gradu-
ate student, said even though Au Bon Pain will open across the street, nothing will match Einstein Bros. quality.
“And Au Bon Pain, it’s just overpriced and not that 
great,” Moorhead said. “It’s kind of like Starbucks, where 
it’s a lot more hype than high-quality food,”  
For Adam Rachlin, a 19-year-old UF political science 
freshman, restaurant’s closing will only make him change 
his routine.
Rachlin said he often goes to Einstein Bros. for breakfast, 
but he would be fine going to Au Bon Pain instead.
“I feel like all bagel places are like the same,” Rachlin 
said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgEINSTEIN’S,  from pg1An Au Bon Pain is 
coming to NewellPolice said he threatened a driver with a knife
By Spencer Thompson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of protesters set up a table 
Wednesday at the Wells Fargo & Co. bank 
in Gainesville and began selling two types of water bottles. 
For about 10 minutes, they attempted to 
sell bottles with “oil water,” which was re-ally just water with black food coloring, for $1, and clean water for $100 at the bank, lo-cated at 104 N. Main St. 
“This is definitely not our first attempt 
and it won’t be our last,” said Joseph Ryan after employees at the bank asked them to leave. 
The protesters stopped at the bank af-
ter marching from Turlington to the bank, a response after President Donald Trump’s administration announced Tuesday its plan to approve the final permit for the Dakota Access Pipeline, said Ryan, an organizer of the protest. 
Wells Fargo is one of 17 financial institu-
tions that will contribute to the cost of the pipeline, wrote, Michael Gray, a spokesper-
son for the bank, in an email.   During the march, protesters carried signs 
that read, “Lay off the frack pipe” as they 
yelled, “I stand with Standing Rock because 
water is life,” through a megaphone.
The group stood on the corner of West 
University Avenue and South Main Street 
for about 30 minutes before Gainesville Po-lice Officer James Franklin told them they needed to have a permit to protest using a megaphone. 
Because the group didn’t have one, the 
group headed toward the bank. 
The water bottles were to represent how 
water will not be free for long, Ryan said.  
Customers in the bank shot them strange 
looks.
The goal was to create an uncomfortable 
situation for everyone to symbolize the un-comfortable feeling that may occur if Florid-ians no longer have access to clean water, he said.
Karrie Ford, who also organized the 
event, said she wanted to sent the bank a message.
“I just want to let Wells Fargo know that 
we see them,” she said.  Dakota pipeline protesters 
sell “oil water” at Wells Fargo
CITY COMMISSION CANDIDATES
Office: Gainesville City Commission At Large 
2, District 2
Jenn Powell
Helen K. Warren
Office: Gainesville City Commission  
District 2
Perry Clawson
Sheryl Eddie
Harvey Ward, Jr. 
Office: Gainesville City Commission  
District 3
David Arreola
Craig CarterTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Citing a “changing” situation 
at the university, UF’s director of 
Black Affairs will step down from 
her position next week.
Vee Byrd, who has held the po-
sition for the past four years, will 
leave her students Wednesday for a new job in Jacksonville.
“Things are just changing at the 
university, and I just think it’s time for me to move on,” she said.Byrd will be-
gin her new job, as associate di-rector of student engagement for Florida State Col-
lege at Jackson-
ville on March 6. She said she’s looking forward 
to the new position because it will give her a chance to shape the col-lege’s recently created program.
“This is a new position for FSCJ 
too, so I get to create it,” Byrd said. “I get to lay a foundation, which is very unique and is rare in higher-ed for you to get to do that.”
In September, Lloren Foster was 
removed as executive director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, 
which Black Affairs falls under. In 
that case, Foster’s contract had ex-pired and UF did not renew it.
While searching for a new job, 
Byrd kept her students, who call her mom and mama, in the loop. She insists on remaining in a group chat of Black Affairs student am-bassadors even after she leaves UF.Latosha Jackson, a 21-year-old 
UF tourism, event and recreation management junior, said Byrd helped her grow as a person.
Though Jackson will miss Byrd, 
she’s happy her mentor is getting a 
new opportunity, she said.
“I’m happy she’s leaving be-
cause she deserves better, better in 
the sense of a better position, and I just feel like this campus takes her for granted sometimes,” Jackson said. 
Khyra Keeley, a 20-year-old UF 
political science and African-Amer-ican studies junior, met Byrd her freshman year. She said Byrd has always kept her students’ best in-terests in mind.
Keeley, of Jacksonville, said she 
hopes Byrd visits her in the city.
“Even if she wasn’t going to my 
hometown, she’s been somebody who’s been important in terms of 
my personal growth on campus, so 
it’s inevitable,” Keeley said. “I told her she can’t go anywhere and me not talk to her. It’s not an option.”
Black Affairs director resigning, cites ‘changing’ university
By Jessica Bass
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you’re looking for a valentine 
this year, Gainesville is a good place to start. 
Trips To Discover, a digital trav-
el magazine, revealed in an article 
Monday that Gainesville ranked No. 
13 in a list of U.S. cities with the highest percentage of single people, said Megan Ribbens, a content strat-egist for the magazine.
“If you look at the information as 
a whole, you do see a good number of them are cities that have a univer-sity in the vicinity,” Ribbens said. 
She explained that the company 
used data from the U.S. Census Bu-reau to calculate the percentage of unmarried people in each state, and then city.
When UF student Hannah Wan-
namaker heard about the ranking, she was skeptical.
“Gainesville? The best place to meet singles in Florida? No way,” she said.
The 21-year-old marketing junior 
said she was surprised the college town even made the list. After end-ing two long-distance relationships, Wannamaker said she isn’t interest-ed in dating at the moment.
Instead of a traditional Valen-
tine’s Day, she’s planning on going to Midtown with a group of friends. 
Jonathan Mills, 21, said he wasn’t 
shocked by the number of singles in Gainesville. As a realtor, he often shows homes to singles who move to Gainesville for work or school.
“I don’t see a lot of opportunity 
to go out and meet people other than through Tinder, Bumble and dating apps like that,” Mills said.
With no valentine to dote on, 
Mills has only one plan for the day. 
“Like any true single would say, 
I’m going to buy myself a nice din-ner and bottle of wine and stay home with my dog,” he said. Gainesville’s singles 
scene ranks 13th in US
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Megan MacDonald knew she 
wanted to be a pastry chef when, 
in third grade, her mom gave her an ice-cream maker for Christmas.
The 17-year-old’s love for ice 
cream, pastries and baking contin-ued when she joined Eastside High School’s Institute of Culinary Arts freshman year.
This year, Eastside’s was the 
only high-school culinary program in Florida to be nationally recog-nized, receiving the honor for the third consecutive year. 
The National Center for Hospi-
tality Studies named the program the 12th best in the U.S. among highschools and technical centers, said Billie DeNunzio, or “Chef D,” the director of the high-school’s cu-linary institute.
“It felt fantastic,” she said. “We 
were very humbled.”The 70-student program offers 
courses ranging from beginning to advanced in culinary arts, nutri-
tion and restaurant management, 
DeNunzio said. After graduating, about 80 percent of the program’s students will study culinary arts or hospitality management in college, he added.
Among the qualifications need-
ed to be considered for the recogni-tion, the programs needed to show 
high enrollment and community 
outreach, while submitting recipes or restaurant management designs, according to a press release.
The program’s competition 
team participates in about 20 culi-nary contests per year, DeNunzio said. For the past nine years, her team has been the best in the state.
In addition to being a high-
school junior, MacDonald works as a prep cook at Embers Wood Grill in Gainesville.
Although most people think of her as just a kid, she said she knows more culinary skills than some of her co-workers 10 years 
her senior.  
After attending her first compe-
tition, MacDonald said she noticed 
that her high school’s program is different than its competitors.
“We hold ourselves to a higher 
standard,” she said. “You can see we have pride in what we do. We drill it into ourselves.”
Last year, three of DeNunzio’s 
students continued their education at the prestigious Culinary Institute of America in New York City.
Although she is one of only two 
teachers in the culinary program, she said local chefs and restaurant managers often visit the school to lecture students on how to be suc-
cessful in the hospitality world.
“We bring in a tremendous 
number of resources, and I think 
that’s one of the things that makes our kids so good,” DeNunzio said.Eastside High School nationally 
recognized for culinary program
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
With six days to spare until Val-
entine’s Day, UF student Steffi Baer 
picked up a blind date at Library West on Wednesday.
“Who needs Blockbuster when 
I have Library West?” the finance and political science freshman said.For the first time, the library is 
offering students a “blind date” with a book or DVD for Valentine’s Day.
On the second-floor, an assort-
ment of movies and novels decorat-ed in pink and red wrapping paper 
lay waiting for students to check 
out. Each has a tag describing it’s genre and clues to it’s plot.April Hines, the journalism and 
mass communications librarian, said she started the project Tuesday with the UF Library West Student Ambassadors and the UF Hooked to the Book Club.
“We’ve been frantically kind of 
restocking and trying to find new titles and wrapping books and DVDs,” Hines said.More than 45 people have gone 
on a “date” with one of the items, so the library had to restock, she said. 
Hines said if she can keep up 
with the high demand, she wants to give out “blind dates” until Valen-
tine’s Day. The event may become 
an annual one because of its suc-cess. Baer’s date, with a heart-shaped 
label that hinted at action, bank rob-beries and magicians, is the movie “Now You See Me.”The 18-year-old plans to spend Valentine’s Day watching a marathon of movies with a group of about 15 friends.
“I thought it was a cute idea and 
I love unwrapping presents,” she said.
Library West offering ‘blind dates’ for Valentine’s DayByrd
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Americans have spent a lot of time fuming 
these past few weeks. I know I did. A flurry of executive actions by President Donald Trump saw the reinstatement of the Keystone and Dakota Access pipe-
lines, a press blackout and grant-freezing at the Environmental Protection Agency, a head-scratching reorganization of the National Secu-rity Council, a backward withdraw of funding for essential aid organizations in the developing world and a broad-stroked travel ban that at its best bars legal U.S. residents from returning home and at its worst sees America turning its back on its founding principles.
But many Americans also spent a lot of time cheering 
this week. After all, pipelines bring jobs, EPA grant mon-ey can be redirected to infrastructure projects that hasten economic growth, the NSC needs a shake-up in the way it crafts policy to deal with the complex threat of terrorism, funding for aid organizations may be better spent on do-mestic programs and allowing immigration from countries with interests hostile to our own while crafting immigration policy is akin to building a plane while flying it.
Full disclosure: I winced typing that second paragraph 
without qualifying it. But I’d be doing a disservice to read-ers and myself by pretending there isn’t some rationale to the arguments in favor of the policies I oppose. There are intelligent people across the political spectrum, and their numbers don’t taper any more to the right than they do the left. Civil discourse depends on mutual acknowledgement of that fact, but today it seems such acknowledgement has eroded. 
Look no further than the opening paragraphs of this 
piece to feel the disconnect for yourself. 
If you’re anything like me, the second paragraph isn’t 
only misguided, but it’s angering, and I suspect the reverse holds true for my right-leaning counterpart. “You’d have to be crazy not to see how obviously wrong that is!” I hear my evil twin muttering under his breath.
Why must this be the case, though? To assume my op-position is crazy is to preclude any possibility of debate or compromise, and thus to excuse myself of the hard work both require.
During the election season, we on the left were 
particularly guilty of this mistake, to our own det-
riment. I wouldn’t pretend to know the causes 
of Trump’s election, but a plausible contributing factor seems to be a curt dismissal of the prob-lems felt by swaths of rural America. So when voters in Mississippi cite concern over a looming threat of terrorism, rather than reach out, sympa-thize and engage them in debate about whether such a threat really looms, we rattle off a list of 
terror statistics and turn away derisively from those unwill-
ing to acquiesce to our side.
After Trump’s election, this trend has continued. The 
heels-in-the-ground objection with which we respond 
to unacceptable decisions (the appointment of a climate change denier to EPA chief, the withdrawal of funding from aid organizations essential for the reproductive health of whole regions, etc.) is being overextended to debatable ones (a border wall, the pipelines). While I categorically oppose both the former and the latter policies, I recognize 
they hinge on substantively different beliefs: the first, on 
science denial and an outdated view of women’s rights; the second, on debatable differences in immigration and eco-nomic policy.
We have four years of this, and it isn’t going to get eas-
ier. We cannot wait until a new president takes office to address our division; we need to deal with it now, and the first step in that process is understanding that smart people disagree with us for good reasons. It is possible to be both 
angry and fair, to advocate passionately for the policies we 
support without plugging our ears to their counterargu-ments. In doing so, maybe we’d realize there’s more value in celebrating and confronting our division than in eliminat-ing it.
Champe Barton is a UF economics and behavioral and 
cognitive neuroscience junior. His column appears on 
Thursdays.
You can be angry, but be fair and listen to othersJudicial review is 
government at work
In today’s lesson plan, we are going to be covering the U.S. 
Government. It’s become clear in the past few weeks that a lot of Americans are not entirely aware of how the government functions. It has, after all, been a long time since seventh-grade civics or senior-year Advanced Placement U.S. Govern-
ment. And unless you have some aspirations in politics or listen to the “Hamilton” soundtrack regularly, there might be some holes in your memory.
Disclaimer: This is a brief synopsis, and if you want a very 
thorough analysis of the early days of the U.S. Government, you will have to hit up your local history major or take UF professor Samuel P. Stafford’s American Civil Liberties class.
Our government is set up with separation of powers, a system 
of checks and balances which ensures no one branch of govern-
ment overpowers another. You see, our newly formed country 
still had bad memories of England and an overruling tyrant, so the Continental Congress wanted to make sure that didn’t hap-pen. The first run of a set of laws for our country were the Ar-ticles of Confederation, which essentially allocated no executive power, leaving everything up to the states. There’s a reason we don’t use them anymore and a reason the Continental Congress had to reassemble and figure out another way to whip our coun-try into shape.
So they drafted up the Constitution and worked on getting it 
approved by the states.
One of the biggest roadblocks in ratifying our current Consti-
tution was that people feared it would give the government — namely the executive branch — too much power. But eventually it was obvious we couldn’t just leave everything up to the states. So compromises were made, powers were checked and balanced, and thus our Constitution was born and has been amended 27 times to keep up with changing times.
Now, a lot of people will point out that the original Constitu-
tion did not give the judicial branch much power. Indeed, it was only with the Supreme Court case of Marbury v. Madison that judicial review — the power of the Supreme Court to determine whether a law is constitutional — was established. But since then, all checks and balances and branches have been pretty even. 
Currently, a very textbook example of the judicial branch 
stepping in to balance out the executive branch is playing out. Namely, the contentious travel ban by President Donald Trump 
has been halted and put up for review. 
This is nothing new. Yet hundreds of thousands of people are 
acting personally victimized that (gasp!) the government dare do 
its job. The sad (and scary) part is that some of these people work for the government. It’s not un-American or unpatriotic that the judicial branch is doing this — it is, in essence, the most Ameri-can thing of all. We feared a strong, overbearing single branch of government, so within our laws, we did our best to prevent that. Our government has been doing that for the past two hundred 
and some years.
From judicial review came: Miranda rights, the abolition of 
poll taxes in state elections, the “separate but equal” ruling, the 
subsequent overturning of that ruling, the rejection of former President Richard Nixon’s notion of “executive privilege” — and that’s just scratching the surface. The fact is this has been a very vital and important part of our country since 1803.
Challenging a president’s or Congress’s’ decision is not going 
against the government. It is the government doing what it was 
made to do: work for the people. Not for a political party, or for 
groups of senators or representatives, but all the people of our country.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORChampe 
Barton
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Feminist activists to speak at the Harn
The Guerilla Girls ﬁ  ght for equality with art, pg. 10Gainesville’s best Valentine’s Day events
What’s happening for singles and couples, pg. 9By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
3LAU, a progressive house and 
electro DJ, has taken the world by storm since 2011 with his remixes and original songs and is set to per-form at the Florida Theatre on Fri-day. The show, which is presented by Lucid Nightlife, will take place from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
The concert was originally sup-
posed to take place on Oct. 5, 2016, but was rescheduled due to Hurri-cane Matthew. 
Matt Collins, the owner and head 
promoter of Lucid Nightlife, said the show being rescheduled to a Friday as opposed to a Wednesday will be a good thing for everyone involved, 
especially the fans. He said he hopes 
the weekend date coupled with 
3LAU’s massive popularity will cre-ate a great experience for attendees. 
“He’s one of those people that, 
even if you don’t listen to his genre 
of music directly, when he tours he 
plays music to the crowd,” Collins said. “On top of that, he’s just re-ally down to earth and a super cool guy.”
In addition to creating feel-good 
tracks, 3LAU, also known as Justin Blau, is also known for giving back. He has raised over $200,000 dollars over the years for Pencils of Prom-ise, a nonproﬁ  t dedicated to creat-ing schools in the developing world. In 2016, he created a charity label, Blume, which raises money based on the amount of plays certain songs receive on Spotify. 
“To us, it shows us that he really 
cares about his fans and the scene,” 
Collins said. “We’re excited to bring 
his tour to Florida and see how it does.” 
3LAU’s performance comes less 
than a week after Lucid Nightlife 
brought Tchami, a widely known 
French house producer, to the Florida Theatre for a sold-out show. Collins said the buzz from Tchami will most likely carry over to 3LAU, and this show will be very close to 
a sellout. 
John Tamburro, a 22-year-old UF 
business administration senior who 
DJs under the name Low Poly, will be opening the show. He said that 
he looks forward to opening for a DJ 
with music like 3LAU’s. 
“3LAU’s music is super fun and 
high-energy,” Tamburro wrote in an email. “As an opener, I get to warm everyone up to that sort of energy, which is a great chance to play in-teresting, left-ﬁ  eld tunes that still 
make you want to move your feet.” 
Although Tamburro is taking a 
break from DJing shortly after the 
3LAU show to improve as an artist, he said he’s excited to have this set 
as one of his last for reasons beyond 
3LAU’s worldwide fame. 
“For the record, I think 3LAU’s 
charity work is very important,” he said. “EDM culture is typically seen as hedonistic and consumerist, and that couldn’t be further from the truth. Having a high proﬁ  le artist 
like 3LAU working to improve edu-
cation infrastructure is more vital 
than ever in this political climate, 
and he’s setting a great standard for every artist fortunate enough to be 
in that position.”
Tickets range from $15 to $35. 
Prince Fox, Loosid and local per-
former Low Poly will be opening the show. 
Producer, DJ 3LAU to perform rescheduled show 
MUSIC
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
They might seem like an unlikely 
crew, a chemistry professor, a stu-
dent and a drum instructor, but one thing — their appreciation of the Bea-tles’ music — brings them together. 
Collectively, they formed a Beatles 
tribute band called The Threetles. 
They will perform at High Dive, locat-
ed at 210 SW Second Ave. in down-town Gainesville, on Friday. Doors open at 9 p.m., and the show starts at 9:30 p.m. 
The tribute trio consists of Chuck 
Martin, a UF chemistry professor, on vocals, Ben Rophie, a 22-year-old UF graduate applicant, on bass and har-
mony vocals and Larry Thompson, a 
drum instructor at Academy of Music and Art & Gainesville Guitar Acad-emy, on drums.
Martin, known as the “Colonel” to 
his students, said performing as a trio provides a unique challenge when ex-ecuting songs originally performed by the famous quartet.
“A lot of people will tell you you 
couldn’t do it as a trio,” he said. “How you pull off The Beatles with-out that fourth guitar or without that fourth keyboard. So we work real 
hard at that.”
Martin’s favorite track to per-
form is “Blackbird,” the folk hit from 
“White Album.” He recognizes and appreciates the difﬁ  culty in mastering the quiet song.
While most songs on guitar are 
played with a pick, “Blackbird” is a ﬁ  ngerpicking song, meaning a guitar pick is not used, Martin said. He prac-tices the song daily.
“You have to not only have the 
skill to play it, but you have to play it from the heart as well,” he said. 
The trio spends a signiﬁ  cant 
amount of time rehearsing to ensure they are doing justice to the Beatles’ music. 
“You don’t want to go out and 
play the Beatles and be crappy,” Mar-tin said. “You go out there and stink 
it up, and it’s going to really offend 
people.”
The Beatles musical style has the 
ability to transcend time and appeal to all generations, Martin said. Peo-ple from all ages — college kids to 60-year-olds — all know and love the Beatles. 
“I’ve played in bands my whole life; I’ve played all kinds of music; I’ve released six albums of my own, but nothing makes the impact on 
people like the Beatles music does,” 
he said. “It’s really quite remarkable.”
In fact, the dynamic of The Three-
tles alone is a testament to the mu-sic’s timelessness. Rophie said de-spite the age difference, they all have a close relationship and similar love for music.
“I’ve always wanted to be a Bea-
tle, and I think this is the closest I’ll ever get,” Rophie said. 
Martin said the success of the Bea-
tles’ music is homage to the heartfelt songwriting.
“What brings people to it is the 
quality of the music, the catchy melo-dies, the heartfelt lyrics, the clever song structure,” he said. “Each gen-eration listens to it and appreciates it for just the amazing high quality mu-sic that it is.”
It’s rare, he noted, that music of 
any genre can survive multiple de-cades. 
“We really look forward to the 
people showing up and singing along,” he said. “It’s like a big love fest.”
For this show, High Dive is offer-
ing couples two-for-one door admis-
sion as a Valentine’s Day special. 
Tickets are $6 in advance, and $8 the day of the show. They can be pur-chased online at Ticketﬂ  y.com or at the door.
“The Beatles are one of the most 
universally loved bands of all time, so it makes for a great date night,” said Pat Lavery, a High Dive promoter.
Beatles tribute band The Threetles to play at High Dive
MUSICCourtesy to the Alligator
House and electro DJ 3LAU will perform a set at Florida Theatre on Friday to make up for his October show, which was cancelled due to 
Hurricane Matthew. The show starts at 9 p.m. and tickets range from $15 to $35, with openers Prince Fox, Loosid, and local performer Low Poly. Florida Theatre hosted popular DJ T chami last weekend with a sold-out show, and expects this set  to also sell out. 
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Tonight, Brooklyn-based indie punk 
band Parquet Courts will be playing 
at the Wooly downtown. The show in 
Gainesville is part of the band’s month-long tour of the Eastern U.S., on which harpist/ambient musician Mary Lattimore 
is joining them.
Parquet Courts is a four-piece band 
that, since its formation in 2010, has 
steadily made its way from underground 
music scenes to the mainstream through-
out ﬁ  ve full-length albums. The group ini-tially drew fans in with its frenetic instru-mentation, raw vocals and experimental recording style. What sets Parquet Courts apart is their ability to achieve innovation in their sound and style with only four members. 
“Parquet Courts is one of my favorite 
bands, I genuinely love all of their songs,” said Caden Kuchera, an 18-year-old UF physics freshman. “I feel like they under-stand what it’s like to be young in America today, and their music ranges from frantic 
punk to slow grooves, giving them a really 
dynamic sound.”
Though born in Texas and now living 
in New York, the band’s vocalist and gui-
tarist Andrew Savage has several ties to 
Gainesville. In 2015, Parquet Courts went 
on tour with a now defunct Gainesville band, Soda. Andrew met Soda’s vocalist, Arlington Garrett, about 10 years ago at a 
house show here in town.
“Arlington used to live in a house 
where he had a lot of house shows. It was 
called ‘Bo Diddley house’ and it really was Bo Diddley’s house at one point. My old band, Teenage Cool Kids played there a couple of times,” Savage, 30, said. “I ac-tually met one of my best friends at one of those shows, and now we run a label together.” 
Savage grew up in Denton, Texas, 
which he cites as an inﬂ  uence for his involvement in music. Like Gainesville, Denton has a culture dominated by college students and young adults who live there. 
“I feel like when you get young people coming in and out of a town, especially 
young people who are in that town to 
pursue education, it creates an environ-ment that’s conducive to making a music scene,” he said.
Run-down houses in low-income 
neighborhoods become concert venues in small cities like Gainesville or Denton, and music thrives at these house shows. Musi-cians rent houses and can put on shows 
there off the cuff, without having to go 
through a professional venue.
“I had a house in Denton, and we had 
shows all the time,” Savage said. “That’s how I met Sean, the bassist of Parquet Courts. His old band played in my living room.”
Parquet Courts and Mary Lattimore 
will be joined by Gainesville band UV-TV. Tickets are available to purchase online at thewoolygainesville.com, or in person at Hear Again Records and Arrows Aim Records downtown. Tickets cost $15 in advance, and entry to the Wooly on the night of the event will cost $17. The show starts at 9 p.m.
GNV hosts indie band Parquet Courts 
MUSIC
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Anna Burbano
Avenue Writer
With Valentine’s Day weekend coming 
up, you might ﬁ  nd yourself at a loss for 
creating the perfect day. Whether you’re planning to spend Feb. 14 with a special someone or currently riding solo, there’s plenty to do in Gainesville to get in that loving spirit. Here’s some of the best Val-entine’s Day events this weekend, no matter your Facebook relationship status (if that’s still a thing).
If you’re in a relationship, you 
could:
Unleash your inner artist at Corks & 
Colors Studio
Commemorate your love by sharing an 
easel, brush and alcoholic drink. Sign up for the Galaxy Forest date night, which 
takes place Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Choose between two canvas options, 
priced at $25 and $35, and register early to reserve your seats. You’ll leave with your own priceless work of art.Take a walk in Kanapaha Botanical 
Gardens
For nature aﬁ  cionados, hosting a per-
sonal picnic for two in the scenic Kanap-aha Botanical Gardens can be the perfect 
Valentine’s Day treat. Enjoy the view of 
natural bamboo and the largest herb gar-den in the southeast while you spread 
out a blanket and snap Instagram-worthy 
pictures. Admission price is $8 for adults, 
and the park is open from 9 a.m. to dusk.
Listen to the romantic sounds of Bra-
zil and Argentina
Prepare to be serenaded by UF’s Bra-
zilian ensemble, Jacaré Brazil, and a re-
nowned Argentine touring group, Marka-ma. Attendees of the concert, which takes place Friday from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. in 
the University Auditorium, will be treated 
to a wide selection of beautiful Andean 
folk music. The event is free and open to the public and co-hosted by the UF School of Music and UF Center for Latin 
American Studies.
Row, row, row your Lake Wauburg 
boatLocated about 10 miles from campus 
on U.S. Highway 441, Lake Wauberg of-
fers the perfect retreat for active-minded 
couples. Students can get in free with 
their student ID, with two-person paddle 
boats or kayaks available for checkout. 
Hours are 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., which means you’ll have plenty of time to burn 
off those Valentine’s Day calories.
If you’re single, you might:
See a “Bloody Valentine Variety” 
show at Superfun!
Eschew convention by attending an 
alternative Valentine’s Day showcase this 
year. Hosted 10 p.m. to midnight Friday 
and Saturday, Superfun!’s event uses drag, spoken-word poetry and theatre to spread a message of survivor empower-
ment and cathartic healing. For a $7 ad-
mission fee, you can relish in the darker 
side of love.
Run in the name of love at Kiwanis 
Challenge Park
No signiﬁ  cant other, no problem! Next 
Level Sports and Fitness invites you to get your heart pumping Saturday with their Valentine 5K run and obstacle course in Kiwanis Park. From 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., you can join fellow runners and walkers 
in a fun-packed group workout. Register 
online with a minimum $15 donation at 
nlsﬁ  tness.com.
Open your heart (chakra) with The 
Sanity Gurus
This Valentine’s Day, release your 
pent-up negative energy and unlock higher awareness through classical yoga 
teachings. The Sanity Gurus’ interactive asana workshop, held Saturday from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m, is half-motivational, half-
workout. Event pricing is $30, but the 
emotional payoff is well worth it.
Celebrate Galentine’s Day in High 
Springs Playhouse
Pay tribute to the special women in 
your life by seeing a play all about wom-en. Watch “Six Women With Brain Death or Expiring Minds Want to Know” at the High Springs Playhouse  Friday and Satur-
day at 8 p.m, with a matinee performance 
at 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets range from $11 
to $16 for this fast-paced millennial show.Valentine’s Day roundup: events for couples, singles
LOCAL10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Feminist activist artists called the 
Guerrilla Girls combat and expose 
inequality in politics, art and pop culture through their artwork — all while wearing gorilla masks. To-night, the Guerrilla Girls will bring their performance to the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art where a mem-ber of the group, who goes by the 
name Frida Kahlo, will give a lec-
ture. 
The Harn event, which will run 
from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., is only open 
to students and faculty within the 
UF School of Art + Art History, but 
the talk will be live-streamed to the Harn’s classroom spaces which will be open to the public. 
“Women and artists of color 
have been in art school for a long time, and so we questioned why they weren’t getting the same op-portunities as white men,” Kahlo 
said.
Every member of the group goes 
by the pseudonym of a previously 
deceased female artist, showcasing that, like the masks they wear, ev-
erything the group does is done for 
a reason — to represent anonymity, but also to allow the artists to focus 
on the subject they are presenting. 
Frida Kahlo, a founding member 
of the Guerrilla Girls, said she chose the name of the inﬂ  uential Mexican 
painter because, at the time, Kahlo 
wasn’t very well-known in the U.S. She wanted to preserve Kahlo’s 
memory and bring attention to her 
work.
“As women, we’re often under-
represented and even when we do have accomplishments, often times 
they’re overlooked or written out of 
history,” Kahlo said. “It’s so impor-
tant that we get credit, that we have role models, that we continue ﬁ  ght-ing and that our voices are heard.” 
Through their art, the group has 
been known to call out the oppres-sion of marginalized groups within the art world. Their most well-known piece speciﬁ  cally addresses 
the drastic lack of women artists 
exhibited, yet abundance of female 
nudity. Displayed on a neon yellow poster, a naked woman wearing a gorilla mask is provocatively posed, 
asking viewers the question: “Do 
women have to get naked to get into 
the Met. Museum?”
Jason Wilkotz, a UF art and polit-
ical science junior and Harn volun-teer, said it was this piece that stood out to him the most and conﬁ  rmed his interest to go to the exhibit. 
“I love art history, and I study 
art history, so I’m really familiar 
with the serious gender inequal-
ity that has existed within the his-tory of art,” Wilkotz said. “What 
Guerrilla Girls do, which is pretty 
exciting, is that they’re bringing to 
attention that not only is there gen-
der inequality in the history of art, but that there’s even current gender 
inequality in the art world, and rec-
ognizing that contemporary female 
artists should be recognized.” 
It was this inequality that in-
spired the the Guerrilla Girls move-
ment to forge in spring 1985 in New 
York City, when the group of seven 
women artists realized the art dis-played in galleries and museums lacked variety. 
“If we want the art world and 
culture to properly reﬂ  ect who we are as a population, there has to be diversity, otherwise we’re just listening to one part of the story,” 
said Kahlo, who stresses that inter-
sectional feminism is a central part 
of their movement.
Sydney Martin, a UF art junior 
specializing in drawing, said it was the group’s ability to call out oppres-sion, sexism and racism within the industry that stood out to her. 
“They’re not afraid to speak 
their minds, and I think the fact 
that they wear the masks doesn’t 
mean they’re hiding,” Martin said. “They’re focusing on the message 
rather than the individual, because 
it’s not about the individual, it’s 
about women together and women 
artists as a whole.”
After the election of President 
Donald Trump, Martin said she 
hoped the Guerrilla Girls’ message 
of revolution and resistance could help motivate people to do some-thing productive.
“We’re in a very turbulent time, 
and I think there is a lot to be done right now, it can seem hard at times to just get up and start doing some-thing because a lot of the problems 
seem so large,” Martin said. “I think 
hearing people like the Guerrilla 
Girls’ talk would give a lot of people motivation to actually do something about everything they’re feeling.” 
While Kahlo said she couldn’t 
give away too many details, she as-sured that their performance will in-clude new satirical pieces featuring the recent decisions of the Trump administration. 
Although the election of Trump 
was a huge setback in terms of pro-
gression, it won’t stop the group 
from ﬁ  ghting, Kahlo said.
“We really thought that diversity 
was something that our culture and government would recognize, and 
so what’s coming out of Washing-
ton is a huge backward step,” Kahlo 
said. “It’s initially depressing, but it 
just means that we need to ﬁ  gure out new ways of confronting it, to 
keep pushing forward and to not al-
low things to go backward.”
While Kahlo said she hopes stu-
dents leave the event with the drive 
to resist and to get more involved in 
political activism, she also said the 
Guerrilla Girls are not looking for 
any new members, but instead urg-es people to start their own unique movements. 
“The world needs more than one 
feminist organization, because isn’t it scarier to have a lot of them?” Kahlo said. “Think of some really unusual, unforgettable way to get 
your point across, to communicate 
with people, and keep in mind that 
our approach has always been to not preach to the converted, but to transform people’s thinking.” 
Activist art group Guerrilla Girls to speak at Harn museum
LOCAL
     By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer
The eighth annual Cinema Verde 
International Environmental Film and Arts Festival aims to educate the local community about environ-mental issues through the four-day festival, which will feature 45 ﬁ  lms.
The festival will take place start-
ing today and running until Sunday at the Hippodrome State Theatre, located at 25 SE 2nd Place.
Trish Riley, the founder of Cin-
ema Verde, said she doesn’t believe environmental issues are politi-cal or religious, but are health and safety issues.
“We’re at a certain time in our 
political history where environmen-tal issues are marginalized,” Riley said. “It’s important to get past the marginalization of these issues be-cause everyone’s health depends on it.”
Riley doesn’t choose ﬁ  lms for 
the festival based on profession-alism, but said she chooses ﬁ  lms based on issues that aren’t being talked about.
“Sometimes I honestly do 
choose the ones that are more like home movies,” Riley said. “But it’s because they’re talking about an is-sue that no one else has addressed but I know is important and I want the audience to know about it.”
Cinema Verde is less a ﬁ  lmmak-
er’s festival and more of an environ-mental festival, Riley said.
Films that will be screened at 
the festival are as short as two min-
utes to as long as two hours.
Some of the ﬁ  lms might involve 
the environment in different ways 
than the viewer would anticipate. “Resilience” is a ﬁ  lm about the 
toxic stress children are susceptible 
to and how researchers are work-
ing to combat this stress through 
ﬁ  eld-tested therapies.
“We need to have healthy 
lives,” Riley said. “The bad effects of stress on our health starts as ba-bies.”
Peace4Gainesville has orga-
nized a discussion on “Resilience” 
through the River Phoenix Center 
for Peacebuilding. The discussion 
will immediately follow the screen-
ing Saturday at 4:45 p.m. An EcoFair will also be taking 
place Saturday and Sunday from 
noon to 5 p.m. at the Sun Center 
Plaza adjacent to the Hippodrome.
“There’s about a dozen tables 
signed up for Saturday or Sunday,” 
said Peggy Nieman, a volunteer 
who has been with Cinema Verde 
since the start.
The Alachua County Humane 
Society will be there Saturday with 
adoptable dogs, said Veronica Que-
senberry, an intern with Cinema 
Verde.
“It takes grants to be able to do 
this thing, we don’t make money 
off of it,” Riley said. “We won’t sell 
enough seats in there to pay rent for 
the theater. But we do it because it 
matters.”
Blocks will be arranged that are 
each about two hours long. If you 
don’t want to purchase a ticket for 
the entire four days, you can pur-
chase individual passes for each 
block. Blocks and movie descrip-
tions can be found at schedule.cin-
emaverde.org.
VIP tickets are available online 
at cinemaverde.org for $125. VIP 
tickets include entrance to all 22 
ﬁ  lm blocks and the VIP reception 
party today at 7 p.m. Single tickets 
to ﬁ  lm blocks are available for $10.
“Students could come here to 
see ﬁ  lms and still ﬁ  nish in time to 
go out,” said Alycin Hayes, a volun-
teer with Cinema Verde. “Nobody 
goes till 11 p.m.”Four-day environmental ﬁ  lm festival hits Hippodrome
FILM
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Cinema Verde festival will be a four-day showcase of environmental ﬁ  lms and art. The 
Hippodrome will feature 45 ﬁ  lms from today until Sunday, and an EcoFair will go on this weekend.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. 
$375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2HOUSE - 3BR/2BA, w/ fireplace off SW 13th St, near IHOP restaurant. 3627 SW 13th St. Big front yard, fenced backyard, close to Vet School, UF & downtown. $950/mo. Call or text 352-2327-2931, email: nghe@msn.com    2-10-17-5-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com      2-15-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-10-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
***PROMOTERS WANTED***
Seeking health conscious entrepreneurs to 
build an at-home business and sales team 
in a global health and wellness company.
*Must be ready to start now!
*Money Motivated
*Willing to learn
No experience required,
full training provided, flexible hours.
Call 815-557-3209 serious inquiries only.
2-9-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
22 Tickets
2 Joe Bonamassa concert tix
Feb 22 Fla Theater Jax. Cost $252, sell for 
$200. 352-481-2841     2-9-3-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDAffordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
ACROSS
1 Subj. for a non-
native speaker
4 __-top: Beatles’
style
7 Much of “Star
Wars” FX
10 Clumsy type
13 __ Michele, 
8-Down co-star
14 “The Princess
Diaries” princess
15 Tetris shape16 Sporty truck,
briefly
17 War film with 
a cast of 60-Across?
21 “Rock and Roll
All __”: Kiss hit
22 Reckon
23 Custardy dessert
24 Thrown for a
loop
26 Cool, once27 Campus groups28 Newspaper with
a staff of 60-Across?
31 Dough for
ramen?
32 Square __
33 Traveler’s aid
37 “Hamlet, thou art
slain” speaker
42 Political __43 Big name in big
tractors
44 1969 hit song by
a group of 
60-Across?
50 Write in code?
51 Actress Ramirez
of “Grey’sAnatomy”
55 __ d’Alene56 Mideast sultanate60 Off-putting sorts?63 Pie choice64 Like bread knives65 Well-to-do66 Unpredictable
DOWN
1 Twisty-horned
antelope
2 Photo app effect
3 Founder of
Taoism
4 Sport for Ronda
Rousey, for short
5 Aromatherapy
array
6 Outmoded public
convenience7 Center of moral
corruption
8 TV show with
mashups
9 Down with
something
10 Wanted one
11 Bothered a lot
12 Fronded plants18 Mediocre marks19 Sonnet, e.g.20 Do maintained
with a pick
25 Kids’ summer
activity
27 “Another word for
nothin’ left tolose,” in a Joplinhit
29 __ Aviv
30 Genetic
messenger
molecule
33 The Scooby
gang’s MysteryMachine, e.g.
34 Ode preposition35 Spell36 QB’s mishap38 Dream state
letters
39 Technical foul
signal, inbasketball
40 West ender?41 Place45 Centipede home?46 Stimulated47 “Oh, now __ it!”
48 All-in-one
vacation
49 Eliot’s weaver
51 Canned meat
used in Hawaiiancuisine
52 “The Good
Dinosaur”dinosaur53 Reddish horse
54 Source of
cartoon
explosives
56 Other, south of
the border
57 Castle defense
58 Basic class with
easels
59 Tiny time pd.
61 Siegfried
collaborator
62 PDX info: Abbr.
By Alan DeLoriea©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/09/1702/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Brooke Copeland is trying to 
shed her three point-shooting slump, pg. 16.Date for ﬁ  rst UF football game of 2017 set 
The Gators will meet the Michigan Wolverines in the 2017 Advocare Clas-
sic on Saturday, Sept. 2, at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, T exas, the teams an-nounced Wednesday. The time and broadcast information of the game will be announced later. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsStaff Report
No. 17 Florida is playing its best 
basketball of the year. With ﬁ  ve 
straight SEC wins — three of them by more than 30 points — and a state-ment win over then-No. 8 Kentucky, 
the Gators have placed themselves in 
a tie atop the conference standings. But who deserves the most credit for Florida’s improvement? Assistant sports editor Matt Brannon and sports writers Ray Boone and Ian Cohen debate who’s been the Gators’ MVP — the most valuable person.  
Boone: White deserves atten-
tion
This Florida Gators squad is an 
undoubtedly good basketball team.
It's currently in the midst of a 
ﬁ  ve-game winning streak and has knocked off the likes of No. 15 Ken-tucky, Georgia and Arkansas to sit in a three-way tie for ﬁ  rst in the SEC 
standings. 
From top to bottom, each player 
on this team has had his moment. 
From Chris Chiozza’s triple-double in the win over Missouri to Kevar-rius Hayes’ 20-point, nine-rebound effort against Oklahoma, it’s no 
wonder the Gators are ﬁ  nally back 
in the top 20 for the ﬁ  rst time since the beginning of the 2014-15 season and will be a threat once the NCAA Tournament comes around.
They have talent. They have grit. 
And, most importantly, they have a 
head coach who can take them to 
the ‘promised land.’
Mike White inherited a disaster 
when he took over in late 2015 af-ter esteemed coach Billy Donovan bolted for the NBA. 
Florida was a mess at point 
guard, couldn’t score, couldn’t rebound and — quite simply — 
couldn’t win.
And after a year to iron out the 
kinks, White has made it all work. 
Now, his No. 17 Gators average 
a respectable 79.4 points per game 
and shoot 45.4 percent from the ﬁ  eld, all while giving up just 65.4 points per game.
At 19 wins, Florida is just two 
wins away from equaling its win to-tal from all of last season — and it still has seven regular season games to do so.
White’s the captain now. So let 
him lead.
Brannon: UF needs AllenKeVaughn Allen catches the in-
bound pass in the corner. Time is running out. Vanderbilt leads by two. He steps behind the three- Roundtable: Who is the Florida basketball team's MVP?
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike White looks on during Florida's win over Kentucky on Saturday. In his second year at UF, White is 
two games away from equaling last season's win total. 
SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 15
GYMNASTICS
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Prior to beginning her career at Florida, the 
largest crowd that Sierra Alexander had ever performed in front of was just 100, and even then it was made up of mostly parents and friends.
Friday was completely different.The freshman made her college debut in 
front of a roaring crowd of more than 14,000 at Alabama, one of the most difﬁ  cult venues for away teams in all of college gymnastics.
She battled teammates Rachel Gowey and 
Amanda Cheney for the spot in the vault line-up.
“It was a little crazy,” Alexander said. “I 
just concentrated on my team and my coaches who are just supporting me, and it was easier for me to get through it.”
Having her team’s support on Friday and 
throughout this season is something that Al-exander doesn’t take for granted, especially as she has fought through injuries.
Her and fellow freshmen Gowey, Amelia 
Hundley and Maegan Chant all live in the same dorm together, making their bond in and out of the gym even stronger.
Unlike many of her teammates and room-
mates, though, Alexander didn’t compete at the elite level of gymnastics in high school, which helped her transition better into colle-giate gymnastics.
She trained at West Broward Gymnas-
tics Academy, a club team in Davie, Florida, where she competed alone for nearly three years.
“Now I have a team,” Alexander said. “It’s 
just been amazing. I love it. It’s hard work but it’s so much fun. It’s great to have teammates and people there for you.”
And it’s not the only thing that sets Alexan-
der apart from her team.
Standing side by side, she towers over 
teammates like Alicia Boren and Ashley Hill- Freshman fighting for a 
slot in regular rotation
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15NO, THIS IS PATRICK
First, you have Rob 
Gronkowski. 
The blonde-haired, 
muscle-bound, beer-chugging party animal 
tight end represents a good chunk of what white America believes in.
Then there’s Martellus 
Bennett.
An advocate for the Black 
Lives Matter movement, the outspoken tight end and teammate of Gronk represents quite the opposite side of the spectrum.
Both of them play for New England 
Patriots, and both have made headlines following their team’s victory in Super Bowl LI but for different reasons. 
Gronk garnered attention for, well, being 
Gronk. He was busy snagging, chugging and spiking beers at New England’s Super Bowl parade Tuesday in downtown Boston. 
Bennett, on the other hand, declared following the game that he won’t visit the White House to celebrate his team’s 
championship alongside 
President Donald Trump. It’s a sentiment that teammate Devin McCourty shared as well this week.
“I haven’t thought about it. 
I am not going to go,” Bennett told CNN. “I can elaborate later 
on in life; right now I am just trying to enjoy this…People know how I feel about it, just follow me on Twitter.”
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Bennett has made 
a statement like this. 
During a National Anthem prior to a 
Patriots game in September, Bennett and McCourty raised their ﬁ  sts in the air, an action that followed San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s decision to kneel during the anthem.  
Whether you agree with Bennett’s stance  Pro athletes: Be less like Gronk 
and more like Martellus Bennett
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
point line and shoots.
Clank. Buzz. Ballgame.
That was on Jan. 21 — Florida’s last loss 
— when the Little Rock, Arkansas, native shot the big brick. But there’s a reason Allen 
took the last shot.
UF coach Mike White has acknowledged 
Allen is “arguably” the team’s best player. 
Allen takes the most shots and scores 
the most points, 13.3 points per game. He’s 
made 51 three-pointers — third-best in the 
SEC — and is shooting 38.9 percent from 
beyond the arc. 
Beyond the box score, Allen is exciting 
to watch. He launches shots from 5 feet behind the three-point line. He scores in bunches, going on his own personal 6-0 runs.  He’s amassed ﬁ  ve 20-point games this season. 
Allen isn’t a perfect player. He could be 
more consistent. He scored just one point in Florida’s 57-53 loss to South Carolina. 
But he’s shown he can bounce back.He scored 29 against Vanderbilt three 
days later, his season high.  
Allen is the most valuable Gator because 
he muster up some offense when no others can.
When Florida battled then-No.5 Duke at 
Madison Square Garden early in the season, Allen was the only player to make more than four shots and ended up scoring 21. 
Allen is the most valuable person be-
cause when he’s not on his game, UF’s of-fense is left feeling around in the dark. 
Cohen: Kasey has taken Gators over 
the hill
It has taken three years, but things are ﬁ  nally starting to click for Kasey Hill.
Entering his senior season at Florida, the 
former ﬁ  ve-star recruit has struggled to live up to the expectations placed on his shoul-ders ever since his freshman season. 
He has a career average of 7.8 points, 3.9 
assists and 2.4 rebounds per game and has seen little improvement in his outside shot.
But this season, in his ﬁ  nal year at Flor-
ida, he’s providing the Gators with some-thing invaluable: leadership.
Hill is UF’s only player who has played in 
the NCAA Tournament — he was a backup on Billy Donovan’s 2014 Final Four team, the one that lost to eventual champion 
UConn.
And as Florida’s longest-tenured player, 
he’s showing his experience on the court.
He’s one of Florida’s primary ball han-
dlers and is the level-headed leader on a 
team whose leading scorer, KeVaughn Al-len, is shy and soft-spoken, and whose starting center, John Egbunu, is easily frus-trated with foul trouble.
And not only is he the team’s true vet-
eran presence — his game has also steadily improved this year.
For the ﬁ  rst time in his career, Hill is av-
eraging double-digit scoring (10.0 points per game) and leads the team in assists (4.9 per game). 
He’s one of the quickest guards in the 
SEC and likes to use his speed to earn easy 
buckets in transition or blow past his man 
in the halfcourt.
And while Hill will never be the player to 
light up opponents from three-point range, he’ll likely be the one to deliver the pinpoint pass to the teammate who does. 
Who do you think has been UF's most 
valuable person? Cast your vote online at alligator.org/sportsROUNDTABLE,  from pg14Allen leads UF in scoring 
with 13.3 points per game
er, who both stand at 4-foot-11.
While Florida’s average height is 5-foot-
3, Alexander is 5-foot-7. Florida hasn’t had a 
taller gymnast since the 2007 roster featured 
two 5-foot-8 gymnasts —  Breanne King and 
Chantelle Tousek.
And though her ﬁ  rst vault, which scored 
a 9.725, was the lowest score of the meet for 
the Gators, Florida coach Jenny Rowland was 
proud of how she fought for the opportunity 
to compete.
“I was very pleased for Sierra,” Rowland 
said. “She proved in warmups she was ready to perform. … She has been working hard in the gym and really went out and took full ad-vantage (of) it.”
Alexander, who com-
petes on both ﬂ  oor and vault, could make it into the lineup this week again against No. 9 Georgia, espe-cially with her team ﬁ  ght-ing off an illness.
“She’s had some adver-
sity coming up to competition season,” junior Alex McMurtry said.  “She is one of the most powerful gymnasts I’ve ever seen in my life. … I think she could be a huge asset for our 
vault and ﬂ  oor lineups.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg14Alexander could see action 
this weekend against Georgia
doesn’t really matter. 
What does matter here is 
that Bennett is using his fame 
and prominence to make a 
statement. Yes, it’s a political 
one that means slightly more 
considering the Patriots’ ties to Trump, but that’s perfectly ﬁ  ne. 
Speaking out should never 
be discouraged. 
In fact, it should be 
encouraged for professional athletes, especially in today’s social media-driven society. 
Just scroll through Bennett’s Twitter feed.
Yesterday he tweeted his 
offseason goals are to learn stop motion, a ﬁ  lm-animation technique, and to play jazz on the trombone. He then went on to tweet that he wants to introduce black children to other hobbies besides football and basketball, like writing, music and ﬁ  lm. 
But maybe the tweet that 
stands out the most: “Your 
favorite athlete stands on his 
platform to be seen. I stand on my platform to shout. To be heard.”
While college athletes 
are often discouraged from voicing their opinions on touchy subjects by their coaches (although not always, — just ask Jalen Tabor), pro athletes have it different. 
Not only do they have a 
right to say what they want, they have an obligation. 
So Gronk, remember that 
next time you’re shotgunning Natty Light for all to see.
Patrick Pinak is the online 
sports editor. His column appears on Thursdays. Contact him at ppinak@alligator.org, or follow him on Twitter @pinakk12. 
COLUMN,  from pg14Alexander
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2017
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Brooke Copeland, the junior forward from 
Cleveland, Tennessee, is simply focused on one thing.
Herself.
As a key reserve on Florida’s bench this season, 
Copeland has hit a shooting rut over her past 11 
games, converting on only 14-of-52 attempts from behind the three-point arc.
She’ll be the ﬁ  rst to tell you that those aren’t the 
results she’s looking for, and as she and the rest of her teammates prepare for their next contest against Arkansas, the Razorbacks are the last thing on their minds.
“We’re focused on just working on what we each 
one of us does best,” Copeland said.
UF faces Arkansas tonight at the O’Connell Center 
at 7, looking to turn around one of its toughest seasons 
to date under coach Amanda Butler.
The Gators (11-12, 2-8 SEC) sit in second-to-last 
place in the conference standings and are on pace to 
ﬁ  nish with their lowest SEC win total in over 10 years.
Their two biggest problems this season have been 
taking care of the ball and perimeter shooting, with their 438 turnovers setting one of the highest marks in the country and their 26.5-percent shooting clip from behind the three-point line setting one of the lowest 
marks in the country.
Still, there’s hope for Florida against the 
Razorbacks.
Arkansas has struggled just as mightily in 
conference action as UF has, especially on the 
offensive side of the ball. Its 66 points per game and 40.6-percent ﬁ  eld goal shooting are both some of the worst ratings in the SEC.
Senior forward Jessica Jackson is also the only 
player on the Razorbacks’ roster to average double-ﬁ  gure scoring, posing the only serious threat to stuff the stat sheet.
Despite those offensive deﬁ  ciencies, Copeland and 
the Gators are still taking the simple approach when game-planning for Arkansas.
“What they do isn’t our concern,” Copeland said. 
“We’re focused on ourselves.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida focused on 
self-improvement
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Brooke Copeland dribbles during Florida’s loss to South Carolina on Jan. 8 in the O’Connell Center. Copeland is working 
on improving her shooting ahead of tonight’s matchup with Arkansas. 
THIS WEEKEND IN UF SPORTS
Thursday 
• Women’s basketball vs. Arkansas, 7 p.m., 
SEC Network+
Friday • Gymnastics vs. Georgia, 6:45 p.m., SEC 
Network 
• Women’s tennis @ National T eam Indoor 
Championships 
• Track and ﬁ  eld @ Tyson Invitational, SEC 
Network+
• Track and ﬁ  eld @ Iowa State Classic  Softball vs. Illinois State in T ampa, 4:30 p.m. 
Saturday
• Men’s basketball vs. T exas A&M, noon, 
ESPN2
• Lacrosse vs. North Carolina, noon, SEC 
Network+
• Women’s tennis @ National T eam Indoor 
Championships 
• Track and ﬁ  eld @ Tyson Invitational, SEC 
Network+
• Track and ﬁ  eld @ Iowa State Classic 
• Softball vs. Michigan in T ampa, 11 a.m.
• Softball vs. Delaware in T ampa, 1:15 p.m.• Men’s tennis @ Virginia, 5 p.m.
Sunday
• Women’s golf @ Northrop Grumman 
Regional Challenge
• Women’s tennis @ National T eam Indoor 
Championships
• Softball vs. St. John’s in T ampa,1:30 p.m.• Softball vs. USF in T ampa, 4 p.m.
• Women’s basketball @ Alabama, 2 p.m., 
SEC Network