By Paige Fry                            
and Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writers
Victoria Camargo walked into 
class Thursday morning to ﬁ  nd a 
6-foot-long rope tied into a noose. It was about 9 a.m., and the noose lay on her professor’s lectern inside 
the Garnett Auditorium at Weimer Hall. The UF advertising sophomore 
thought it may have been a prop to be used in class. But her professor 
never acknowledged it. After the two-hour class, police were called 
and hauled the rope away.
“I walked in there, and it was 
just kind of thrown on the ﬂ  oor,” the 20-year-old said. 
She was one of the ﬁ  rst to see 
the noose. Soon enough, news of the act had reached the highest 
level of the university, prompting 
UF President Kent Fuchs to issue a 
campus-wide condemnation of the 
act some viewed as stirring racial 
tensions just days before Martin 
Luther King Jr. Day. 
Adviser Judy Hunter said she 
called police when she heard about 
the incident from the professor, Mi-chael Weigold, and from a student after the class ended. Weigold is 
white.
University Police is investigat-
ing the incident, as of press time, 
and has interviewed students from 
the class, UF spokesperson Janine 
Sikes said. She also said police are 
looking into allegations that The-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 81 FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
UF gymnastics opens h
ome schedule
The Gators host Kentucky tonight at 6:45 p.m., pg. 16
Expansion on UF’s Innovation Hub on schedule
A space will be reserved for female inventors, entrepreneurs,  pg. 3
Human traﬃ   cking panel met Thursday
About 100 people attended, pg. 5Program to recruit non-Jewishstudents for free Israel trip
The most recent trip ended this month, pg. 5
UF oﬃ   cials, Fuchs condemn noose left in Weimer Hall 
IT IS PART OF A NATIONAL 
CAMPAIGN.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
The messages were written by 
hand. Some were short, others long.
“Thanks for keeping us safe,” 
read one.
“You kick ass,” read another.
The words of encouragement, 
each written by a UF student, were 
stitched onto a quilt and dedicated 
to a group of about 30 military vet-
erans attending UF on Thursday 
evening.
The students behind the quilt 
are part of the 2016 Bateman Case Study Competition team that com-
peted in a national contest to de-velop a successful public-relations campaign.
The Bateman team’s campaign, 
“Bet on Vets,” strived to bring stu-
dents and student-veterans closer 
together.
The quilt was given to the UF 
Collegiate Veterans Society.Pelfrey, who grew up in Ken-
tucky, said she wanted to make a 
quilt because she knew it was a spe-
cial tradition for community mem-
bers in her home state. 
“We hope they are encouraged 
by the appreciation from students on campus,” she said.
One of the presenters, Paige Ar-
nold, said her addition to the quilt was a patch she made for her sister. 
“Thank you for encouraging me 
to never stop learning,” the 24-year-
old public relations senior wrote on the cloth.
Trey Rattray, 28, served in the 
National Guard for six years and is the president of the veteran’s group.
He wants the quilt to be hung 
where veterans can see it every day, the UF computer engineering senior 
said.
“I think the quilt represents the 
commitment between UF students 
and their collegiate veterans,” he 
said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF veterans honored 
with quilted messages
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
When 4-year-old Phoebe Dooley 
saw Cinderella at her front door, it 
was as if the tumor on her brain-stem had disappeared — if only for a moment.
The blond-haired princess, whom Phoebe recognized from movies, was somehow at her home 
in Gainesville, just for her. And she 
brought along a pony.
But how would Cinderella get 
back to her castle? Phoebe won-
dered.
Phoebe, who lives in Gainesville 
with her parents, Cole and Sarah Dooley, is sick. She has diffuse in-trinsic pontine glioma, an aggres-
sive brain cancer that has mani-
fested as an inoperable tumor.
 After 30 rounds of radiation, 
Phoebe is responding well to treat-
ment, but likely won’t live for 
longer than three more years, her 
mother said.But on that magical day in Sep-
tember, the little girl with long, 
dirty-blond hair was squealing and 
jumping and smiling.
For Kierra Brown, that makes it 
all worth it.
“You can bring them into this 
magical world where anything is possible and dreams come true,” the 25-year-old Santa Fe College 
student said. “It’s almost like me 
living my fairytale life and me get-
ting my happily ever after.”
About six years ago, Brown de-
cided to spend her days donning a 
wig and green dress and spreading Project Princess brings magic, love to hospitalized childrenSEE NOOSE,  PAGE 4
SEE PRINCESS,  PAGE 8Courtesy to the Alligator
Paige Arnold, a 24-year-old UF public relations senior, holds up a quilt with UF professor Deanna Pelfrey at a Collegiate Veterans Society meeting on Thursday. Each patch on the quilt has a note from a UF undergraduate student to a veteran. 
University Police is investigating
FEATUREWHAT’S HAPPENING
Back To School poster sale
The Reitz Union is hosting a 
Back To School poster sale. to-day from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.. There will be a table outside the Reitz 
Union featuring posters, most 
of which are priced between $5 and $9.
352Creates Leadership Team 
OpportunityThe Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join their 352Creates Leadership Team for 
a 60-hour apprenticeship to work 
with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short let-ter of interest and a resume. For more info, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3
Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign Phase 3. For more in-formation, or to request materi-al, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or 
contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@
ufsa.ufl.edu.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to the University Gallery in Gainesville Cultural institutions are host-ing Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from 
January to March. Cuban mu-
ralists, dancers, musicians, authors and academics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University 
Gallery and the Gary R. Libby 
Gallery. The University Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, a curator of the Popular Culture Collections at Smathers Library, today from noon to 1 p.m. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, 
Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.
edu.
GatorNights: Nightmare on Gale 
Lemerand StreetTonight, GatorNights is hosting Nightmare on Gale Lemerand Street at the Reitz Union. In the Rion Ballroom at 9 p.m., com-
edy mind-reader Eric Dittelman, 
who has been featured on NBC’s “America’s Got Talent,” will per-form. The event will also have an escape room, which will be open all night in the Matthews Suite. Coffee from Global Coffee House will also be offered, along with free bowling and billiards at the Game Room from 8 p.m. 
to 1 a.m. GatorNights is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Florida Swing Dancing Club 
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
is offering free lessons and danc-
es twice a week every Monday and Friday. On Friday nights, the organization hosts two lev-els of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organiza-
tion hosts two hours of lessons 
from 7 p.m. to  9 p.m. and so-cial dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. on the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more in-formation, find the organization on Facebook.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21 Collectors from across the region will share their personal trea-sures with the Florida Museum of Natural History visitors dur-ing the 38th Collectors Day on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the museum’s longest-running public program, 
allowing guests to interact with 
collectors and learn about the context and historical signifi-cance of their collections. The registration deadline to display collections is Saturday. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collectors-day-registration or call 352-273-
2061.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28 
Beginning Jan. 28, the Florida Museum of Natural History visitors will be able to see the museum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” 
Guests may view tree frogs, 
bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant toads and poison dart frogs. The museum will host a public open-ing celebration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Jan. 24 or $15 for UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late 
or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students; $5 for children aged 3 to 17; and free to museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. 
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-
mation and giveaways, along 
with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (lim-ited quantities available), will be featured. The event will also feature the Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team no later than Jan. 30, visit shcc.
ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-
design-challenge.
RUB Entertainment hosting Craft 
the ConstellationsOn Wednesday at 6 p.m., Reitz Union Board Entertainment is hosting Craft the Constellations on the North Lawn. Munch on 
space snacks, explore the solar 
system and journey with your own piece of the solar system.
UF Argentine Tango Club offer-
ing free classes for all levelsThe UF Argentine Tango Club is hosting free tango classes for all levels, including beginners. 
Classes will take place Sunday 
in the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. The lesson will begin at 6:15 p.m., followed by an intermedi-ate/advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. For more information, visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 81
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandFRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
TODAY from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Staff Writers, Staff Photographers, 
Copy Editors, Sports Writers, Sports 
Copy Editors, Contributing Writers 
and Contributing Photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
VISIT US AT 
EITHER LOCATION
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
IT WILL BE A SPACE FOR 
ENTREPRENEURS.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville start-up companies will 
soon have more space to call home.
The expanded building, located at 
747 SW Second Ave., will add an ad-
ditional 100,000 square feet to the In-
novation Hub, a space for companies 
to develop using on-site resources, said Jane Muir, the Innovation Hub’s director. The expansion, which is on schedule, is using $8 million in funding from the U.S. Economic Development Administration and $9 million from UF.
Construction began in November 
2016 and is expected to be complete by 
November 2017, Muir said.
Since the building debuted in 2011, 
the Innovation Hub has consistently 
run out of space for companies to use, she said. 
So far, the building has created 700 jobs, and private investors have given more than $50 million, Muir added. 
“The whole idea is to build to serve 
more startups and ultimately create more jobs,” she said.
Muir said the hub brings together 
all the elements needed to nurture a startup — including in-house mentors and partnerships with law ﬁ  rms and accounting ﬁ  rms.
With the expansion, the Innovation 
Hub’s directors will create a space spe-ciﬁ  cally for women inventors and en-trepreneurs.
Kennette Hayter’s company, Nom 
Nom LLC, which makes nutrition-packed ice pops, is currently housed in the building. Hayter said the Inno-vation Hub’s resources, like guidance with business pitches and sit-downs with investors, are useful to her.
“I think it’s a great opportunity to 
help you grow your business faster,” Hayter said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgConstruction on schedule 
at UF’s Innovation Hub 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
EVICTION NOTICES 
Dustie T orii, 41, and her daughter, Courtney Nick, 21, read their eviction notices at Dignity 
Village on Thursday. Since Wednesday, at least six people have been evicted from their tents at the F Camp of the homeless community for allegedly hiding or assisting in hiding two trespassers. “We have two hours to get out, ” Nick said, adding that her brother was one of the trespassers. “I feel like it’s wrong. We have nowhere to go. ”
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
atre Strike Force, a UF student im-
provisational comedy group, left it 
in there.
“The history of nooses certainly 
opens wounds for the black com-munity,” Sikes said.
Sikes said a member of the im-
prov troupe admitted to tying the 
rope into a noose, but it is unknown 
as of press time if that member left 
it in the classroom.
The member, whose name has 
not been released, told police he made the noose as a symbol of how 
his semester was going.
Theatre Strike Force denounced 
the member’s actions in an emailed statement Thursday night.
“The member acted as an indi-
vidual, and the occurrence is not representative of the values of our club,” the group’s executive board 
wrote. “We sincerely apologize if 
any students or faculty members 
were made to feel unsafe due to the 
actions of this individual.”
Fuchs emailed students Thurs-
day night about the noose, calling it a symbol of hate.
“While we do not know why the 
rope was placed there or the inten-tion, recent reports indicate it may 
have been a prank,” Fuchs wrote. 
“Nonetheless, the shameful and de-
plorable history that nooses evoke 
opens wounds, particularly for 
members of the Black community.”
Diane McFarlin, the dean of the 
College of Journalism and Commu-
nications, also sent out an email 
Thursday night elaborating on Fuchs’ message.
“I was heartbroken when I ﬁ  rst heard about this incident,” she 
wrote. “I felt profound relief when I 
learned that it appeared not to have 
been intended as a racially oriented 
message.”
At about 6:30 p.m. Thursday, 
Fuchs held a small white candle as he marched with UF’s black com-
munity during the Martin Luther 
King Jr. march and vigil, put on by 
the UF MLK Celebration. The noose at the university shows why the 
march is needed, Fuchs said. 
“Those symbols can create a lot 
of hurt,” he said. “Diversity is part 
of our education.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgNOOSE,  from pg. 1Fuchs joined the UF MLK Celebration
Grace King / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs addresses a group of students at the Martin 
King with Malcolm X: Exploring Social Justice through Multiple Lenses opening ceremony on Thursday. The group marched from the Institute of Black Culture to the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom as  part of a candlelight vigil before the ceremony.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
STUDY ABROAD
Jerel Layog, a 22-year-old UF health education and behavior junior, speaks to study abroad 
adviser Sarah Evans inside the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite on Thursday afternoon about studying abroad in Asia.
THE TRIP WAS FOR  
NON-JEWISH STUDENTS.
By Romy Ellebogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After hearing about her Jewish friends’ ex-
periences at Birthright, Heather Ryan became 
curious about visiting Israel herself.
As a Christian, Ryan, a 21-year-old UF 
agriculture education and communication 
junior, wasn’t eligible for the Birthright trip, 
which provides young adults with a Jewish 
heritage a free trip to Israel. 
However, Ryan was able to go on a 10-
day, all-expenses-paid trip to the country with 
Caravan for Democracy, sponsored by the Jewish National Fund. 
“Everyone has a connection back to Is-
rael,” Ryan said. “Regardless if you are reli-
gious or secular or Christian, Muslim, practic-ing, not practicing, you can find significance in Israel simply by the story that Israel tells of persistence and resilience and growth.”
Two UF students went on the Caravan for 
Democracy trip from the end of December to January. The program aims to recruit non-Jewish student leaders on college campuses, said Yishai Goldflam, the executive director of 
Israel advocacy and education for the Jewish 
National Fund.
Goldflam said the trip shows student lead-
ers what Israel is like beyond news headlines.
“Our goal is to facilitate constructive dia-logue about Israel and the Middle East on 
college campuses,” Goldflam said. “And we believe that the best way to do this is to show student leaders Israel with their own eyes.”
Ryan went on the trip from Dec. 28 to Jan. 
8. Jessica Valdes, a 21-year-old UF political science junior, also attended from Dec. 26 to Jan. 6.
Valdes said she went on the trip because 
she was curious about Israel’s position in the world and wanted to learn about Middle East-ern politics firsthand. In the country, she met 
Israeli Jews, Israeli Arabs, Israeli Palestinians, 
Druze and Bedouin people.
“It was really eye-opening, and I wouldn’t 
have it any other way,” Valdes said.
Throughout the trip, Valdes said she wasn’t afraid to ask questions about every-
thing she was learning.
“So I do feel we got a whole perspective 
instead of a one-side perspective,” she said.
Ryan and Valdes said they plan to host a 
forum in Spring to share their experiences and encourage other students to apply.
“Anytime there’s a conflict or anytime 
there’s uncertainty in the world, a lot of the people respond with fear,” Ryan said. “But if a student even has an inkling to have a desire to learn beyond that fear, that is what I would 
challenge someone, a potential applicant, to 
focus on.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgTwo UF students visit Israel on trip for campus leaders 
A PANELIST’S MOTHER 
USED TO SELL HER FOR  
DRUGS, MONEY.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
When Savannah Parvu was 11, 
her mother sold her to a stranger for 
$10. And that was just the first time.
Living in Orlando, Parvu and her 
drug-addicted mother would stand 
in parking lots behind bars, as her 
mom scraped enough money to get a fix. When the money was gone, she used her daughter as payment.
At an event hosted by the Ala-
chua County Coalition Against Hu-man Trafficking, Parvu, now 30, shared her experiences to a crowd of about 100 at Trinity United Method-
ist Church. She was part of a panel 
of four other anti-human-trafficking activists who  called for more aware-ness of the issue, particularly in Gainesville.
“We wanted to show the commu-
nity that human trafficking is real, and it’s happening right here,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Frank Wil-liams, one of the event’s panelists.
Eradicating human trafficking is 
nearly impossible, but awareness makes a monumental difference, Williams said. In the past three years, he has helped convict 12 hu-
man traffickers in Gainesville.
“We are never going to eliminate 
human trafficking,” he said. “We’ll 
be like a hamster on a wheel, but public education is the key.”
Parvu said she tried to run away 
nearly 15 times but always went back. Her family, although abusive, was the only life she knew, she add-
ed.
After both her parents attempted 
suicide, she entered the world of fos-
ter care and group homes, she said.
Years later, Parvu decided to visit 
her mother. It was during that time  her mother allowed her to be raped by seven men. It was then that she decided to share her story.
“I want to be the person I needed 
when I was going through it,” she 
said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligatorPanel discusses human 
trafficking in GainesvilleThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORIt’s Friday the 13th, and you know what that means — 
avoid all cracks, don’t walk under any ladders and turn 
around when the hoard of black cats crosses your path. 
It’s time to stock up on four-leaf clovers and rabbit feet (or 
whatever the vegan alternative to rabbit feet is) and toss salt over your shoulder. But if you’re running away from a man in a hockey mask, make sure to ﬂ  ip your newspaper 
open and prepare yourself for the Friday the 13th edition 
of…
Darts & Laurels
On the subject of unlucky things that could possibly kill 
you, if you’re one of the 15 million Americans who have food allergies, you’re probably intimately acquainted with 
the EpiPen. Drug company Mylan raised the price of this 
vital, life-saving device to more than $600 per pack of two, which, quite frankly, is a ridiculous price to pay for some-thing you really need if your roommate accidentally leaves 
a spoon that touched peanut butter in the sink. But good 
news to all you allergic folk out there: CVS has released a generic, cheaper version of the EpiPen, that runs at $109.99 for a pack of two. It’s even working to reduce costs for qualifying patients. So, a laurel to CVS for making a criti-
cal, life-saving medication more affordable.
Let’s stay in the health zone and take a look at what just 
happened to the Affordable Care Act — or as it is some-
times referred to, Obamacare. Although some people might 
mistake the two names for separate entities, they are in fact 
the same thing. Obamacare has had a long ﬁ  ght ever since it ﬁ  rst appeared but has given rise to some pretty great ben-eﬁ  ts: speciﬁ  cally, coverage for people with preexisting con-ditions, young people being able to remain on their parents’ 
insurance until age 26 and affordable contraceptives. This 
week, the U.S. Senate voted to repeal these parts of Obam-acare. The repeal has not yet taken effect, but it should be noted that the “replace” portion of “repeal and replace” 
was sorely lacking. Now if there had been a clear plan as 
to how to reshape the health care system in the absence of Obamacare, perhaps we might hold off on this dart, but the fact is, there isn’t one. So we aim a dart to the Senate for voting to repeal Obamacare without a backup plan.
In the world of politics, the media frenzy regarding Pres-
ident-elect Trump, the dossier and CNN is still going on strong. After Trump denounced CNN as “fake news,” Fox News host Shepard Smith rose to defend the rival network. 
Considering Fox News and CNN’s bitter rivalry, it was re-
freshing to see a bridge across networks in order to defend reporting. So we bestow a laurel upon Shep Smith for de-
fending journalism, regardless of network bias.
In a similar vein, let’s throw a dart at this whole ﬁ  asco  
in the ﬁ  rst place — Buzzfeed for the document dump, the 
incoming Trump administration for deliberately shifting Buzzfeed’s error onto CNN and trying to delegitimize the network and everyone who’s posting long, angry Face-
book rants about one great evil or the other without really 
researching what’s going on. What we need to take away from this whole ﬁ  restorm is that there is a time and a place to call out “fake news.” Preferably, of course, when an out-let and its news is actually fake. There is also a standard 
for reporting and journalism. A site primarily known for its 
personality quizzes and recipe videos might not exactly be the best example of that. Buzzfeed might just want to stick to “Which Kardashian are you?” quizzes for the time being.How will artists react to a President Trump?
Late in the evening of Nov. 8 of last year, 
a wildly entertaining electoral battle was fought before all Americans. But what was just as entertaining was read-ing and hearing the massive outpour of 
emotions and intense reactions from our coun-try’s entertainers and artists. Think about your favorite actor or musical artist for a moment. Then, check their Twitter feed. There is a very high probability if you scroll down to early November, you’ll see some sort of election re-action, which was almost unanimously negative.
But that’s just how the entertainment and artistic 
bubble thinks. Artists have always aligned themselves on the more liberal side of the political spectrum, which has contributed greatly to the idea in this country that the left tends to be cooler than the right. When everyone cool in life, from George Clooney to Julian Casablancas, expresses their more liberal ideals, and all the right has to show is “Duck Dynasty” and Ted Nugent, this is the result you get.
Now, will the next four years truly be a dark time for 
the country? I highly doubt it. However, I do think artists will think otherwise and hurl themselves onto any op-portunity to make the days seem darker than they really are.
That being said, I believe artists actually enjoy trou-
bling times, as they are often the sources and catalysts for some of their greatest work. Some of the most terrible times in history have also produced some of the most substantive, truly meaningful art. Gleeful, lighthearted music is nice for a bit, but it is the raw, emotional music that sticks with us — the music that bravely ventures into the deepest parts of being human. 
As a consumer, this is a win-win. For one, I person-
ally don’t have to live in the “The-World-is-Ending-Be-cause-of-Trump” bubble for the next four years like these artists will. And the real beneﬁ  t for me will be the fantastic art that could result from this chaotic time quickly approaching us. What exactly will that art be like? 
Foxygen, a fun-sounding indie band from 
California, will release a wild, orchestra-infused album later this month and was re-cently interviewed by Music Feeds about this topic. Sam France, the lead singer of the band, for one, thinks “Trump is going to be good for Foxygen,” as the band’s music will now be 
crafted toward serving as an escape for people. 
“But maybe now because of Trump, maybe what 
we’re going to start seeing is people wanting to escape. Not just go to the movies and see the world getting blown up or some dark edgy art. Maybe we’ll see a return to musicals,” France said.
The concept of music serving as a mental escape is 
one that has been experimented with for years. Regard-less of the artist’s original intent in its creation, people have always been able to use visual and auditory art as a way to forget the not-so-fun things going on around them. Is there a correlation between grumpy, despon-dent artists and amusing, expressive art? Do happy times produce downcast songs and ﬁ  lms, while troubling times produce lively, happy ones? What if music is constant-ly created as a form of escape, and the only thing that changes is what the music is an escape from?
If we get nothing but bubbly musicals and sugary love 
songs for the next four years, ﬁ  ne, but I don’t think that’s how it’ll be entirely. Artistic escapes aren’t required to go to Candy Land, they just need to go somewhere different. No matter where that place may be, or whatever direc-tion these artists go next, I am certain that great works will continue to be made, no matter the circumstances. 
Andrew Hall is a UF management junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORLetters to the Editor
In response to 'Binge Drinking 
Game: Syllabus week edition'
I’m writing in response to the Jan. 5 ar-
ticle published in the Alligator called, “Binge 
Drinking Game: Syllabus week edition.” I am 
a health-promotion specialist at GatorWell. It 
is disappointing a story would be published the ﬁ  rst week of Spring classes focused on encouraging unsafe and unhealthy behaviors 
among the Gator Nation. While I acknowledge 
freedom of the press and the Alligator’s right 
to write and publish stories as they choose, 
encouraging students — especially those un-derage — not only to drink alcohol to excess, 
but to do so to the detriment of their academic 
success is irresponsible and dangerous.
High-risk drinking (binge drinking) is a 
serious public-health issue that most universi-
ties across the country face. Unsafe drinking 
leads to myriad negative consequences such 
as physical assault, sexual assault, vandal-ism and public property damage, unprotected sex — which can lead to sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy — and alcohol poi-
soning — which, left untreated, can result in 
death. Numerous research studies have found an association or correlation between alcohol and GPA: The larger amounts of alcohol con-
sumed, the lower the GPA. It is also worth 
mentioning that although many students believe high-risk drinking is only a phase in their college career, the National Institute on 
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism estimates 20 
percent of college students nationwide meet the criteria for an alcohol-use disorder. Al-though this article may have been intended to be a light-hearted start to the semester, high-
risk drinking and addiction are not jokes.
All of the GatorWell staff educate and ad-vocate to the UF community that students 
who take care of themselves and focus on 
their health and well-being inevitably are 
more likely to succeed, not only in class, but in life. Alcohol, despite what the article sur-mises, is not “a token remedy for those ﬁ  rst 
tedious days.” Rather, starting the semester 
with plenty of sleep and a proactive strategy for managing your syllabus is a much better way to go.
Alicia Baker is a UF GatorWell health-
promotion specialist.FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
the wonder of Disney princesses to 
the children’s units of UF Health 
Shands Hospital, where an escape to a far-off world is sometimes just what the doctor ordered.
When she was younger, every 
birthday ended in the same wish for Brown.
She would blow out her candles 
and dream of Walt Disney World 
— of seeing her favorite animated 
princesses in the flesh and immers-
ing herself in a fantasy land.
But, because money was tight, 
she never went.
“I want to give a lot of kids that 
opportunity and that experience I didn’t get to have for myself,” she said.
When Brown was a junior at 
UF, before she enrolled part-time 
at Santa Fe, she developed a pe-
culiar hobby. She would dress up as Tiana, the main character from “The Princess and the Frog,” and attend children’s birthday parties.
Soon after, she turned that pas-
sion into her own company, Capes and Tiaras.
In 2013, Capes and Tiaras made 
its first volunteering appearance at Gainesville’s hospitals to visit chil-dren at long-term inpatient units at Shands. Brown loved the volunteer work, so in Fall, she started Project Princess, a UF organization dedi-cated solely to hospital visits with students dressed up as princesses. In the future, the group plans to take its princess act to children in other countries as part of a mission trip, possibly to South or Central America.
The club now has about 50 
members and 15 actresses who serve as princesses. They visit Shands inpatient facilities every month and, this Spring, will start 
visiting the UF Health Medical 
Plaza, where children go to receive 
outpatient treatment.Once a month, Kailyn Allen’s 
cheeks blush, her hair turns blond and she transforms into Cinderella, the very princess Phoebe fell in love with in September.
Allen, a 22-year-old UF law stu-
dent, once worked as a paid actor for Brown’s company. And when Brown decided to create Project Princess, she asked Allen to be its president. 
“I absolutely fell in love with 
it,” Allen said.
For Allen, becoming Cinderella 
is more than cosmetic trickery. It’s about becoming a role model.
“She’s always kind, always cou-
rageous and always hopeful, even when things seem really bad,” Al-len said about her role as Cinder-ella. “I think that’s why she trans-lates so well to the children we’re going to visit.” 
In order to become a princess 
like Allen and Brown, volunteers 
have to go through a vigorous au-
dition process, Allen said. In ad-dition to physically resembling a princess, their personality has to shine through. 
“For me, I really look for inner 
beauty,” Allen said. “I think that it’s important to me to have girls who have really good hearts.”
But turning students into roy-
alty takes hard work — and a lot of makeup.
After they’re selected, the prin-
cesses have to go through a Prin-cess Bootcamp, she said. They spend three hours with a profes-sional acting coach and an ad-ditional hour with a professional makeup artist, learning how to transform into their character with eye shadow, lipstick and false eye-lashes, Brown said.
“There’s lots that go into it, in-
cluding nail-polish color and the shoes that they’re wearing,” Allen said.
For Allen, interacting with kids 
like Phoebe is why she became the organization’s president in the first place. Seeing their smiles and watching them run into her arms makes the busy law school sched-ule and long hours working with the volunteers worth it.
“For me, this is the most impor-
tant part of my life,” she said. “Ev-erything else comes second after this, including law school.” 
For Phoebe, meeting Cinderella 
was a dream come true. She and Allen decorated tiaras and did each other’s makeup. They walked hand in hand, Cinderella’s white gloves grasping Phoebe’s hands.
Allen said meeting kids like 
Phoebe puts her life in perspective. Although their time together was short, it was one of the most mem-orable experiences she’s ever had.
“She was still the brightest light 
of joy,” she said. “To be able to bring joy to these kids, that’s what it’s all about.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
PRINCESS,  from pg. 1Volunteers for the organization go through Princess Bootcamp
Courtesy to the Alligator
Some of the Project Princess UF club members pose for a picture at the Christmas with a Princess event. The party was held at Gigi’s Playhouse on Dec. 11 for children with Down syndrome.
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF tourism and hospitality management sophomore Whitney Mecca, dressed as Elsa from “Frozen, ” and UF psychology freshman Cassie Mead, dressed as Anna, visit a young patient at UF Health Shands Hospital.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dressed as Cinderella, Kailyn Allen, a 22-year-old UF law student, reads a book to 4-year-old Phoebe Dooley. Phoebe was diagnosed with a terminal brain tumor in March 2016. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
A group of princesses make a visit to a patient at UF Health Shands Hospital. The princesses visit the hospital once a month.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UKULELE UNION
Gianne Guevarra, an 18-year-old UF chemistry freshman and a co-president of the UF Ukulele Club, 
leads a group in song at the grass stairs outside of the Reitz Union on Thursday. More than 30 people showed up to the club’s ﬁ  rst meeting.
THEY’RE GIVING AWAY 
$10,000 IN PRIZES.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst corporately 
owned Ashley HomeStores is having 
its grand opening Saturday. 
The store, located at 3964 Plaza 
Blvd., opened about a month ago 
but is hosting a ribbon-cutting at 
9:30 a.m. Guests who visit the store can enjoy a free lunch from David’s Real Pit BBQ, participate in face-painting and win prizes.
“We just really want to meet the 
town that we moved into and meet all the people in it,” said Sommer White, the manager of ﬁ  eld market-
ing for Ashley Furniture Industries.
The ﬁ  rst 100 guests will receive 
$50 gift cards to the store. Guests can 
also enter to win $10,000 in prizes, which include smart TVs and new furniture. The winners will be an-nounced around Jan. 24, White said.
The last Gainesville-based pri-
vately owned Ashley HomeStore closed in 2008 during the economic recession, Sommer said. They want to re-introduce the store with the city in better economic shape, she added.
“It just became real apparent 
that we needed to get a presence up here,” White said. 
Larry Lamb, the Gainesville 
store’s manager, said the store’s updated, dynamic look is different from what other Gainesville furni-ture stores offer.
He’s excited to work with his 
team and the community with pro-
grams such as Hope to Dream, 
which donates mattresses to chil-dren in need.
“We’re going to be a steady inﬂ  u-
ence in the community,” he said. 
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.orgAshley HomeStore to 
have grand openingFRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
CONDO w/4 rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call 352-331-4371     1-20-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-2
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
● SLEEPER SOFAQueen mattress, like new. Navy fabric.$190 - negotiable.● Mirrors 3'x5'7", coffeepot, pictures & more.
Call 352-372-4600    1-17-17-4-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
GoAutoBid.com
Sell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647       1-13-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PART TIME SALES ASSISTANT needed for local Audio/Video retail store. approx. 15-17 hrs per week.Thurs & Fri 12-6pm and Sat 10am-3pm. Ideally, applicant should be tech savvy, have some retail experience, be organized and posses good communica -
tion skills. Position starts at $10 per hour. Applicants can email resume to mark@elec -
tronics-world.net.    1-13-17-5-14
Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!Copytalk Business Services is hiringemployees to transcribe audio files.- 60+ wpm required- Competitive pay rewarding production- Located close to UF campus- Create your own scheduleApply at www.ctscribes.com       1-18-5-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-19-17-10-15
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching & aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-17-17-8-15
AFFORDABLE CAREER TRAINING!ONLINE OR ON CAMPUS.Medical Office, Accounting, IT andAdministrative Certificate Program Choices. CALL FOR ANSWERS 1-888-535-9909or CLICK learn.Sctrain.edu         1-13-1-15
Get FAA approved training inweeks, not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM 888-242-2649        1-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years. Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305       1-13-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Cabo’s peninsula
5 Stupefy
10 Earthy shade
14 “Don’t have __,
man!”
15 Jennifer
Saunders’ “Ab
Fab” role
16 Room service
challenge
17 Simba’s mate
18 Pack animal?19 Shrewd20 Port23 Heavy weight
24 It may need a
boost
25 Port
34 “Mean Girls”
actress
35 Instrument heard
in the DoobieBrothers’ “BlackWater”
36 Lived and
breathed
37 Uncompromising38 __ nus: barefoot,
in Bordeaux
39 Hilarious one40 Scotch datum41 Construct
42 Friend of Jerry
and George
43 Port
46 Org. with a
square-rigger on
its seal
47 Jungle swinger48 Port57 Ointment additive58 De Valera of
Ireland
59 “Dies __”
60 Array of options61 Urban air
problem
62 Reposed
63 Rear deck64 Blush-inducing
H.S. class
65 House meas.
DOWN
1 Judicial seat2 Smoothie fruit3 Cola named for
its intended effect4 Football squad in
white jerseys,
typically
5 Lagging
6 Time change?
7 Turbaned
Punjabi
8 Selective Service
classification
9 Blue Devils’ rival
10 Homeowner’s
account, perhaps
11 Kind of sandwich
or soda
12 Tiller opening?
13 Taxi alternative21 Unlike new
clothes
22 Indian tourist
mecca
25 Like some pond
growth
26 Blacksmith’s
need
27 Copper?
28 Like Wrigley
Field’s walls
29 Many a flower girl
30 Acknowledge, in
a way
31 “It’d be a dream
come true”32 Judd matriarch33 Legally prohibit
38 One of Disney’s
official eleven
39 Perfume staples41 Forum infinitive
42 Yokum cartoonist44 Garage service45 Agitated48 Where much tie-
dyeing takesplace49 Kitchen bar50 Prohibition51 Tone down
52 Camera that
uses 70mm film
53 Move like honey54 Modern-day
Mesopotamia
55 Newbie
56 Commonly
anchored shelter
By Bart Beisner©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/13/1701/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 24 Pets 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Sophomore gymnast Alicia Boren is hoping to lead her team to a victory in UF's ﬁ  rst home meet of the season, pg. 16 Former Gator to host SEC Network program
Olympic silver medalist and former UF gymnast Bridget Sloan will be an 
SEC Now studio analyst on the SEC Network's "Friday Night Heights. " She will also  join fellow UF graduate Laura Rutledge to cover the Auburn at Mis-souri meet on March 3.As Mike White took to the lectern after 
Florida’s win over Ole Miss on Jan. 3, there was a sense of relief spread across his face.
Just minutes prior, after holding a 
commanding lead for much of the contest, the Gators were reeling as the Rebels went on an 11-2 run to cut UF’s lead to just six points with under a minute left in the game. 
Florida managed to escape Mississippi’s 
monstrous comeback bid.
But just barely.“Disappointing the way we ﬁ  nished the game,” UF’s second-year head coach said. “We knew they were going to keep coming.”
The Rebels put up just 21 
points on 40-percent shooting and went 0-of-6 from beyond the arc in the ﬁ  rst half.
The second half told a differ-
ent story as Ole Miss shredded a Florida defense to the tune of 42 points, 59.3-percent shooting from the ﬁ  eld and ﬁ  ve three-pointers.
Ole Miss' comeback attempt illustrates a larger problem: Nearly halfway through the season, second-half slip ups have been the theme for a squad that is 13-3 and undefeated through four games of SEC play.
As soon as the Gators set foot 
outside of the locker room after halftime, they are a completely dif-ferent team. At least defensively. 
Point blank, this is a solid UF 
team. After a long absence from 
the polls, White ﬁ  nally returned the Gators to the AP Top-25 rankings, where they sit at No. 23. They average a respectable 78.9 points per game, and their 16th-ranked defense, accord-ing to kenPom, holds its opponents to 92.6 points per every 100 possessions and just 66.6 points per game.
In the ﬁ  rst half, the Gators are solid on 
the defensive end of the ﬂ  oor, holding oppos-ing teams to 30 points per game, 41.4-percent shooting from the ﬁ  eld and 27.9-percent shoot-ing from three-point range. 
In the second half, however, Florida’s de-
Florida's men's basketball team  needs to improve its second half defenseBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s basketball 
team has faced a brutal start to SEC 
play, and its conference record con-tinues to deteriorate. 
From errant passes resulting in 
unforced turnovers to poor rebound-ing leading to second-chance points, it was an all-around ugly perfor-mance from UF on Thursday night when it took on Mississippi State.
The No. 4 Bulldogs beat down the 
Gators 82-49 at the Humphrey Colise-
um in Starkville, Mississippi, holding 
Florida to a season low in scoring.
Backup center Teaira McCowan, towering over defenders at 6-foot-7, 
torched Florida with 25 points on 
12-of-13 shooting. Guard Victoria Vivians also continued a solid junior campaign, tallying 21 points of her own and corralling ﬁ  ve rebounds.
UF was hampered by a lackluster 
effort on the boards and poor ball handling. The Gators allowed Missis-sippi State to pull down 17 offensive 
boards and committed 27 turnovers, 
resulting in 22 second chance points and 27 points off turnovers for the Bulldogs.
The Gators (9-8, 0-4 SEC) also re-
ceived a quiet offensive performance from senior forward Ronni Williams. The senior entered Thursday night leading the SEC in scoring but was held to only three made ﬁ  eld goals in the contest.
Delicia Washington was the one 
bright spot for Florida, notching 17 
points on 7-of-13 shooting. However, 
the freshman guard failed to get her teammates involved with zero as-sists, highlighting a lack of offensive 
continuity in UF’s worst offensive 
outing so far this season.
“You will be humbled all the way 
to your knees in this league when you play poorly on someone else’s home court,” coach Amanda Butler said. “We didn’t play well tonight.”
Following an evenly played ﬁ  rst 
couple of minutes, the Bulldogs ex-
ploded on a 14-0 run that quickly  Gators 'humbled' by No. 4 Mississippi State on road
HERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
Ray Boone
twitter: @rboone1994
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14The Associated Press
Mississippi State forward Victoria Vivians (35) shoots around Florida center T yshara Fleming (right) during the ﬁ  rst half of Thursday's game in Starkville. 
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15UF committed 27 turnovers14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
fense has been torched routinely.
For the season, the Gators give up 
nearly seven more points in the sec-
ond half (36.6). 
In addition to the increase in scor-
ing, the shooting percentages of op-
posing teams also greatly increases once the final 20 minutes commence. Florida’s opponents shoot about 44.6 percent from the field and convert 38.5 percent of their threes in the fi-nal frame.
In the Gators’ three losses, No. 5 
Gonzaga, No. 7 Duke and No. 9 Flor-ida State combined to score 135 sec-ond-half points, including a 47-point outburst from the Seminoles. 
Even in wins, UF still struggles 
to defend for a full 40 minutes. The Gators dominated Arkansas Little Rock in a 94-71 thrashing, but gave up 44 points in the second half to a team that ranks seventh in the Sun 
Belt Conference. 
Offensively, nothing much chang-
es for the Gators. They average 
roughly the same amount of points per half at 39.1 and 39.9, respec-
tively.But the lack of a consistent de-
fensive presence has really hurt this 
team and could have much darker implications for postseason play.
“We have to show our hands. 
We have to be physical and clean,” White said. “But we can’t be tenta-tive, and we can’t be scared. We’ve got to be aggressive but intelligent at the same time.”
How should they fix this prob-
lem?
Maybe they could rebound the 
ball better (at 35.4 rebounds per game, UF is dead last in the SEC). 
Maybe they could hustle more in 
transition.
Or maybe they could address 
their foul issues in the frontcourt.
Who knows?Regardless, one thing remains 
clear.
With teams like Kentucky loom-
ing on the schedule and tournament aspirations on the line, they’ve got to figure it out. 
Ray Boone is a sports writer at 
the Alligator. His column appears on Fridays. Contact him at rboone@al -
ligator.org or follow him on Twitter. COLUMN,  from pg. 13FLORIDA LOST TO PENN STATE 
IN THE NCAA TOURNAMENT TO 
CLOSE ITS 2016 SEASON.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
 
Last season was one of the best seasons in 
Florida lacrosse program history.
It featured a sweep of both the Big East reg-
ular season and tournament championships, an 18-1 start to the season (the best in program history), and a .900 winning percentage, good for second best all-time.
Individually, certain players reached career 
milestones.Three Gators, Nicole Graziano, Sammi Bur-
gess and Mollie Stevens, achieved 100 career goals, making them the sixth, seventh and 
eighth players to do so.
Mary-Sean Wilcox ended her career IN goal 
No. 2 all-time with 278 saves.
Even coach Amanda O’Leary reached a 
milestone, notching her 100th win at Florida.
It was an incredible season for the program, 
but one that ultimately fell flat at the end.
In the second round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment, the Gators fell to the Penn State Nittany Lions 14-13 in overtime after Penn State goalie 
Emi Smith saved a last-second shot from Syd-
ney Pirreca that hovered around the goal-line to send the game to overtime.
Although UF had a disappointing finish to the season, they established themselves as the team to be feared in the Big East. 
They captured their sixth consecutive Big 
East regular season title after going undefeated 
in conference play and won their fourth tour-
nament title.
During non-conference play, Florida went 
6-1 against ranked teams, including its only 
loss of the season against then-No. 1 Maryland.
A lot of Florida’s successes came on the 
backs of experienced seniors, like Graziano, 
who led the team in goals (44), assists (17), 
points (61) and shots (88), and Wilcox.
But with a senior class of ten players gone, 
the team will look to a mix of younger and vet-
eran players to get the job done and the next set of leaders and playmakers to emerge.They already have one in sophomore at-
tacker Lindsey Ronbeck, who started in every game for Florida as a freshman and finished 
third on the team with 36 goals.
Add the offensive threats of seniors Stevens 
and Burgess, and that’s 98 goals last season.
On defense, the Gators are led by two team 
captains in seniors Taylor Bresnahan and Caro-line Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald is No. 2 all-time in 
career ground balls (106) and No. 3 in caused 
turnovers (61), while Bresnahan is No. 2 in caused turnovers (63).
And at goal, Florida gave sophomore Haley 
Hicklen significant playing time to take over for Wilcox this season. 
She started the second half in 18 games this 
season, making 62 saves and playing 48 min-
utes in goal in the NCAA Tournament game 
against Penn State.
While Florida has its established players, 
there are plenty of opportunities for some of 
the incoming freshmen to contribute.
Last season, it was Ronbeck and Hicklen 
who made their presence known and got a lot of playing time.
This season, there are seven new players 
looking to do the same.
Two freshmen, defender Cara Trombetta, 
a 2015 Under Armour All-American, and mid-fielder Brianna Harris, the 2016 Capital Gazette Girls Lacrosse Player of the Year, are looking to make an impact to an already strong team 
and help fill the void the seniors left when they 
graduated.
While the Gators might not be able to rep-
licate all the successes of last season, they still 
aspire to win both the Big East regular season 
and tournament titles.
But what they will look to change in rela-
tion to 2016 is how far they can make it in the 
NCAA Tournament, where they are looking to escape a two-year drought from the quarter-finals.
The team opens play this Saturday at 3 p.m. 
with an exhibition against the U.S. National Team in Bradenton, Florida. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgUF lacrosse looking to build off successful 2016 campaign
Alligator File Photo
Lindsey Ronbeck runs with the ball during Florida's 4-14 loss to Maryland on March 19 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Ronbeck is expected to be one of Florida's top offensive threats in 2017. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike White looks on during Florida's win over Arkansas-Little Rock on Dec. 21 in the O'Connell Center. "We've got to be aggressive but intelligent at the same time, " he said of his team's defense. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
There’s one word that sticks out 
when looking at Florida’s roster: fresh-
man. 
More notable than the class, how-
ever, is the name next to it: Ingrid Neel.
The Rochester, Minnesota, native 
is the newest member of the Florida women’s tennis team after enrolling at the University of Florida yesterday and joining the team immediately. 
Neel signed a National Letter of In-
tent in November of 2015 and contin-ued to compete in both junior and pro-fessional competitions before coming to Gainesville. 
Although Neel is the only under-
classmen on the team, she doesn't lack experience. 
Neel was listed as the No. 1 recruit in 2016 by tennisrecruiting.net. She also held that ranking in 2014 and 2015.
In June, Neel won a $10,000 singles 
title in an ITF Pro Circuit match and went on to win a total of ﬁ  ve doubles titles in 2016. 
She also participated in the 2015 US 
Open with doubles partner Alicia Black, advancing to the round of 32. 
Neel begins her collegiate career for 
the Gators today at the Freeman Memo-rial Tournament in Las Vegas. 
She will join junior Anna Danilina 
in their doubles debut against nation-al championship runner-up Katarina Adamovic and Viktoriya Lushkova of Oklahoma State at 1 p.m.
Neel will also face off against Ad-
amovic in singles action later in the day.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org Women's tennis  adds freshman Neel to veteran roster
Neel
shifted the momentum their way. 
Vivians, senior center Chinwe 
Okorie and senior forward Breanna 
Richardson all knocked down jump-ers to give Mississippi State (18-0, 4-0 SEC) a 20-5 lead with 1:15 left in the ﬁ  rst quarter.
Another 11-2 run by the Bulldogs 
in the second quarter led by three ﬁ  eld goals from McCowan put her team up 44-20 with a little more than two minutes left in the period. The Gators ultimately scored a season-low 22 points in the ﬁ  rst half.
Things got a little bit better for 
Florida in the second half, but not 
much. UF shot 40 percent from the 
ﬂ  oor in the ﬁ  nal two frames but con-tinued to be hindered by wreckless turnovers, relinquishing the ball to Mississippi State another 13 times in the period.
“I’m really disappointed that we 
didn’t show up and play our jobs bet-ter,” Butler said. "We played poorly 
on both ends.”
A video posted to the Florida Ga-
torsWBB YouTube account contrib-
uted to this report. 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 13Washington scored 15 of her 17 points in the second half
The Associated Press
Ronni Williams (1) shoots an uncontested layup during the ﬁ  rst 
half of Thursday's loss to Mississippi State. 
The Associated Press
Mississippi State center T eaira McCowan (15) shoots a hook shot around Florida center Tyshara Fleming during Thursday's game. 
STANDOUT PERFOMANCES
FloridaDelicia Washington – 17 points, 
six reboundsRonni Williams  – 11 points, 
four rebounds
Mississippi State
T eaira McCowan  – 25 points, 
12-of-13 shootingVictoria Vivians  – 21 points, 
four steals16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 2017
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
It’s ﬁ  nally their turn.
After watching both the men’s 
and women’s basketball teams open their home season sched-ules at the O’Connell Center over the last three weeks, the gymnas-tics team’s chance has ﬁ  nally ar-rived. 
“I am very excited to come home, especially in the new arena,” sophomore Alicia Boren said. “It is going to be a new ex-perience for all of us, including the freshmen, and I think we are going to do good.”
Tonight, the No. 3 Gators take 
on No. 14  Kentucky at home in front of a crowd that averaged over 7,400 during the 2016 season — the ﬁ  fth-highest attendance average in the country for the sport.
This meet also opens Florida’s 
SEC schedule, a slate that neither the team nor the coaches are taking lightly.
Last season, four SEC teams 
made the NCAA Super Six, the most of any conference.
So Florida knows if it wants to 
make it back to the NCAA cham-pionship in April, it will have to perform well against other teams in its conference.
“It’s extremely hard, but we 
love being part of the SEC,” ju-nior Alex McMurtry said. “I think it just pushes us to be that much better. Even when we were here Friday night, we were watching some of the meets, and we know how great every team is out there. We know it’s going to be a fun season, but I can’t wait to start with an SEC meet.”Though UF has been looking 
forward to its home opener for months, it has had an unconven-tional week leading up to it.
Florida’s head coach Jenny 
Rowland, who is a “Brevet level judge,” ﬂ  ew directly from the Gators’ last meet in Raleigh, North Carolina, on Sunday to a seminar in Indianapolis to review the Brevet scoring code, where she has been all week.
And while Florida hopes to 
have its head coach back some-time during the meet, in her ab-sence, assistant coaches Adrian Burde and Owen Field have taken over her coaching responsibilities in practice this week and will con-tinue to do so during the Gators’ matchup against the Wildcats.
“We know exactly what we 
need to do,” McMurtry said. “And if I have mistakes, I know what Jenny would say if she were here. So I think we will deﬁ  nitely be OK. We hope she comes into the meet at a good time on Friday night so we can have our head coach lead us through the way. But I think we will be all right.”
And so now, nearly ten months 
since their last home meet, the Gators are ready to compete in their new arena in front of their fans.
“You don’t have to bring as 
much energy in the O’Dome be-cause it is the environment we’re in,” McMurtry said. “Of course we are going to be loud, and we are going to have a great time, but it is just a whole lot easier in the O’Dome with thousands of Gator fans.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org 
Gymnastics team to compete in new O’Dome for ﬁ  rst time
Alligator File Photo 
Alicia Boren poses after completing her beam routine during Florida’s win over Arkansas on Feb. 12 in the O’Connell Center. 
Alligator File Photo
Alex McMurtry runs to the vault during the NCAA Super Six on April 16 in Fort Worth, T exas. 
MEET INFO:
What:  
No. 3 Florida v. No. 14 
Kentucky
Where:  
The O’Connell Center 
or on SEC Network +
When: 
T onight @ 6:45