We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 101 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
Six games remain for UF hoops
The Gators are hoping to avoid a late-season 
collapse, pg. 13
After roach sightings, boycott planned at UF
Roaches have been found inside UF’s dining halls, prompting outrage and disgust from students, pg. 4
Students petition to save UF’s Einsten Bros. 
More than 330 students have signed on, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was killed and 
two others were injured Satur-
day night after a drunk driver hit 
them at a bus stop, police said.
Karan Khullar, a 22-year-old 
who immigrated to Gainesville 
from India last month, was stand-
ing at the stop in front of Campus Club Apartments with a group of 
friends at about 9:30 p.m. when the driver, 23-year-old Damaris Guerrero Garcia, sped onto the 
sidewalk and struck him, along 
with two others, according to a sworn complaint.
Garcia, an Ocala resident, was 
driving drunk on Southwest 37th 
Boulevard when she approached 
a curved stretch of road near the 4000 SW 37th Blvd. apartment complex, misjudged it and drove off the roadway, striking Khullar and launching him several feet, 
wrote Gainesville Police spokes-
person Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email.
Khullar was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital with signiﬁ  cant 
head trauma and was later pro-
nounced dead in the emergency room. The other students injured in the crash, Nikhil Singh and 
Saurabh Prasad, 
were taken to 
the hospital with nonlife-threatening in-
juries. They are both listed as students in UF’s online directory.The friends were waiting for 
the Later Gator F to go to Mid-town when the speeding white 
Hyundai barreled into Khullar, 
a computer engineering student, Singh said in an interview follow-ing his release from the hospital. 
“It was very fast,” Singh said. 
“Next thing I remember, Karan was lying just 3 feet away from 
 Drunk driver kills UF student, injures two at bus stop
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
GAINESVILLE GLOVING 
Josh Jimenez gloves for his teammate Kristen James at the Gainesville Gloving Competition at Flow 
Space, located at 117 NW 16th Ave., on Saturday. James said gloving was “so much more than I ever could have hoped for it to be. ”
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer 
On Friday, more than 13,000 
read their letters of acceptance to UF’s class of 2021 — just 38 per-cent of all applicants.
UF admitted 13,214 students 
to start in Summer and Fall, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an email. The university received more than 34,000 applications this year. In 2016, 42.5 percent were admitted from about 32,000 appli-cants, and 44 percent were admit-ted for the class of 2019.
Innovation Academy, where 
students take classes in Spring and Summer, admitted 979 students, he said. The Pathway to Campus Enrollment program, PaCE, where students take 60 credits online be-fore taking on-campus classes, ad-mitted 2,420 students.
The average newly admitted UF 
student starting in Fall has a GPA of 4.4, an SAT score of 1349 out of 1600 and an ACT score of 30 out of 36.
But President Donald Trump’s 
immigration ban could still affect international students’ choices to enroll at UF, wrote UF spokesper-son Janine Sikes in an email.
Though the ban is currently on 
 UF admits less than 40 percent of applicants for class of ‘21By Jimena T avel
Alligator staff writer
University Police increased 
patrols near UF’s Anderson Hall after racist messages were found scrawled on a classroom’s white-board Friday.
While UF President Kent 
Fuchs condemned the messages in an email to a faculty member, the act is not being treated as a hate crime, UF spokesperson Ja-nine Sikes said. 
The messages — which read 
“No Negroes,” “No Mexicans,” “No Muslims,” along with Presi-dent Donald Trump’s campaign slogan: “Make America Great Again” — were found Friday morning by a UF student and a custodian, said Ido Oren, the chair of the UF Department of Political Science.
Another message was written 
on several whiteboards, reading, “Month is racist! F*** N**** month,” likely in opposition to February’s Black History Month, Oren said. 
The messages were found 
in room 034 before one of UF professor Richard Nolan’s inter-national relations classes, Oren said.
The student who found the 
messages reported them to Oren around 9:30 a.m., he said. Both the custodian and the student took photos of the statements.
Oren said he emailed Fuchs 
to show him the photos and tell him about the incident.
Oren said he felt comfortable 
emailing Fuchs because he has addressed recent incidents on campus such as a man wearing a swastika armband and the noose  UPD increases patrol 
after whiteboard slurs SEE FATAL,  PAGE 9
SEE WHITEBOARD,  PAGE 9
SEE ADMISSIONS,  PAGE 913,214 students were admittedCAMPUS
“I will ask our staf to 
investigate and hopefully 
apprehend and prosecute.”
Kent Fuchs
UF PresidentGarcia
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum 
Spend Valentine’s Day at the 
Florida Museum of Natural 
History playing trivia. The mu-
seum is open from 7 p.m. to 
10 p.m. for this event. Trivia 
begins at 7:30 p.m. The fee 
is $30 per person or $50 per 
couple. A Valentine’s Night at 
the Museum is for adults only. 
Pre-registration is required. For 
more information or to register, 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/ 
grid/valentine-event or call 352-
273-2061.
Kristian Black: Being a Person 
of Color in Medicine
Kristian Black, a second-
year medical student at the University of Michigan and the admissions ambassador at the 
University of Michigan Medical 
School, will speak about how he navigates his identity as a black 
man within a top-10 university 
Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at UF’s Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs classroom in the Reitz 
Union, Room 2201.
Free English classes offered by 
the Latina Women’s League
Starting this Tuesday, until April 
18 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St., 
free English classes will be of-
fered by the Latina Women’s League. To register, attend the 
first class.
iSTEAM Speaker Series 
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
UF engineering graduate and contestant on “MythBusters: 
The Search” Tracy Fanara, 
who will speak at the Marston 
Science Library on Thursday at 
2 p.m. in Room L136. Fanara, a scientist at the Mote Marine Laboratory, will speak about 
her “MythBusters” experience, 
research on Florida beaches and 
waterways and storm chasing.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealth
Isabel Moreira will explore the relationship between wealth, 
almsgiving and perceptions of 
the afterlife in Europe between 
the fifth and eighth centuries. 
The talk will take place Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to 
the public. For more informa-
tion, email humanities-center@
ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.The Diversity Project: Kitty 
Oliver 
The Center for Arts in Medicine is pleased to host UF alum-na Kitty Oliver on Thursday 
and Friday. Oliver will pres-
ent “An Evening of Jazz and 
Multicolored Memoirs” at the 
Historic Thomas Center on Thursday at 7:30 p.m., “Race 
and Change Across Cultures 
and Generations” at Constans 
Theatre on Friday at 2 p.m. and “Telling YOUR Story, Changing 
OUR Lives: Using Oral Histories 
on Race and Change to Make a 
Difference” in Fine Arts Building B, Room 105, on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. These special presentations 
are intended to bring the com-
munity together to share ideas 
and promote discussion around issues of race and diversity.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion
Queerness and Disability is 
the second installment of the LGBTQ Affairs Office’s semester-long lunch series. They will look 
to examine and understand the 
intersection of LGBTQ+ identi-
ties and disabilities, and they 
will explore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related 
to different facets of these inter-
sectional identities. Come enjoy free bagels, and learn how you 
can become an ally to the dis-
ability community within your community. This event includes 
both a presentation and a dis-
cussion portion, where you can communicate with your peers and voice your opinions about 
how to make the LGBTQ+ com-
munity a better place for people 
with disabilities. This event 
is open to all people, whether you do or do not identify as 
LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will 
take place in the LGBTQ Affairs 
space in the MCDA suite Feb. 24 
from noon to 1 p.m.
Discover Your Career in 
Healthcare Conference
On Feb. 27, learn about the di-verse opportunities in health care, network with employers 
in the health care industry and 
engage with UF departments 
and student organizations in 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. To learn 
more, visit crc.ufl.edu/discover-
healthcare.
An evening of Finnish folk music 
Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening 
of Finnish Folk Music” on March 
8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. Ave. The performing and songwrit-ing team of Pia Leinonen and 
Joni Tiala will perform songs 
in English and their native lan-guage, Finnish. This free musi-cal program will be in Meeting 
Room A. For more information 
about library programs, visit 
aclib.us/events or call 352-334-
3900.
‘Words on Canvas’: the Harn 
writing competition 
Write yourself into the art mu-seum. “Words on Canvas” is a 
poetry and prose writing com-
petition at the Samuel P. Harn 
Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by 
art. Winning contestants will be 
awarded prizes. See guidelines 
at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. 
The deadline to enter is March 17.
APIAxUFIIT: Resume and 
Interview Workshop 
Have you ever wondered what 
to say or mention on your re-sume? So much to put but re-stricted to one page? Can’t de-
cide on what experiences and 
involvements are relevant when 
job searching? Asian Pacific 
Islander American Affairs is working with UF International 
Initiatives Team to organize a 
resume workshop for those in-terested in improving and edit-
ing their resumes for future jobs. 
There will be a speaker from the Career Resource Center to work 
personally with students on re-
sume development. The aim of UFIIT and APIA is to develop personal and professional skills, 
practice cross-cultural commu-
nication with international stu-
dents and provide opportunities 
to learn about another culture.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 101
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  51°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
Romy Ellenbogen / Alligator Staff
Ali Corominas, a 20-year-old UF visual arts studies and psychology 
junior, crafts a boot for the snowboard she is making. Corominas said she went snowboarding for the ﬁ  rst time this year in Boone, North Carolina, and was inspired to build her own board. 
Romy Ellenbogen / Alligator
Steve Reyes, a 22-year-old UF sculpture junior, creates pieces for his art project in Fine Arts Building C on Sunday afternoon.
By Jimena T avel  
Alligator Staff Writer
As Rachel Tanchak reached 
out to grab some Cinnamon Toast Crunch for breakfast Saturday in 
UF’s Gator Corner Dining Center, 
a cockroach crawled under the cereal bin.
“I ﬁ  gured there’s more under 
there,” the UF chemical engineer-
ing freshman said. “It was pretty 
gross.”
When Tanchak, 18, saw the 
insect, she snapped a photo and 
uploaded it to the UF Class of 
2020 Facebook group.
It wasn’t the ﬁ  rst time in the 
past week a student reported in-
sects in one of UF’s two dining 
halls. Now, one UF student is 
planning on boycotting the dining 
halls.
Josh Kickhoefer, a UF me-
chanical engineering freshman, 
is asking students to join him in 
the boycott Tuesday and demand 
cleanliness at the eating quarters.
“They should make it clean or 
at least somewhat acceptable,” the 19-year-old said.  
Kickhoefer placed ﬂ  yers 
around Turlington Plaza, Stadium Road and the Reitz Union to ad-vise students to stay away from the dining halls.
“I thought nothing’s going to 
change if someone doesn’t take initiative,” he said.
Zach Isler, a UF pharmacol-
ogy freshman, uploaded a video of what appeared to be about 10 baby cockroaches on a counter at Fresh Food Company to Facebook groups on Thursday.UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said UF Pest Management visits 
the dining halls once a week. She 
said she believes the bugs Isler recorded in Fresh Food Company were crawling out of a milk ma-chine employees were replacing last week, after a staff member saw bugs on it.
All milk machines are now be-
ing replaced in the dining halls, Sikes said.
“The issue was being treated, 
which is why they came out,” she said. 
Sikes said she thinks the din-
ing halls passed all recent inspec-
tions from the Florida Depart-
ment of Health.
Tanchak, who visits a dining 
hall about three times every day, 
said she’s seen bugs in the past. 
“I see ants once in awhile,” 
she said, “but I ﬁ  gured that’s nor-
mal.”
Kickhoefer and Tanchak said 
they want Aramark, the compa-ny that runs UF’s food facilities, to prevent bugs from crawling around the halls. Kickhoefer said he hopes the boycott helps get the company’s attention. 
“People are actively talking 
about it which is good,” he said. “I think it’s going on the right path.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  After roach sightings, 
UF student planning dining hall boycott
By Jimena T avel  
Alligator Staff Writer
Alexis Brocious’ petition started 
as a joke, but then more than 300 
people signed it.
Brocious, a 21-year-old UF 
animal biology junior, created an 
online petition Friday requesting 
that UF keep Einstein Bros. Bagels in the Hub. As of press time, the change.org petition has 336 signatures. The restaurant is set to close at the end of Spring to expand Chick-ﬁ  l-A so it can serve breakfast, according to Alligator archives.
Chick-ﬁ  l-A will take over the 
P.O.D. Market space, and the UF convenience store will move to Einstein Bros.’ current location.
Brocious said she didn’t want 
to lose access to the restaurant’s asiago bagels and iced lattes — and others like her soon spoke up. 
After posting her petition to the 
UF Class of 2018 and Class of 2020 Facebook groups, it gained 100 signatures in one day.
“I was like, ‘Oh, wow, 
this petition could actually do something,’” she said.
She plans to post the petition 
on more Facebook pages and send out bulk emails soon to get the 
word out. If it reaches 1,000, she 
plans to hand it to UF President Kent Fuchs, although she admits she doesn’t know if anything can be done to prevent the restaurant from closing; the changes are set to be done by Fall.
Brocious said some people who 
signed the petition said Einstein 
Bros. was cheaper or healthier 
than other campus restaurants. Others cited its varied vegetarian options.
Thomas Moseley, a 20-year-old 
UF telecommunication junior, said he wants Chick-ﬁ  l-A to expand so he can order off the breakfast menu, which includes egg-based sandwiches and breakfast platters.
“This is kind of a no-brainer for 
me,” he said. “The Chick-n-Minis are heavenly.”
Brocious said she understands 
many students prefer Chick-ﬁ  l-A over Einstein Bros., but she thinks the P.O.D. Market should go. 
Moseley agreed.“I don’t think a lot of people go 
to the P.O.D. Market, so that’s a compromise,” he said. “Everybody would be happy.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  Students petitioning to save UF’s 
Einstein Bros. from closing down 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
The Student Government Judi-
ciary Committee failed a proposal 
Sunday to remove language in SG codes stating remote online voting is unconstitutional.
The proposed revision, presented 
by Sen. Zachariah Chou (Inﬁ  nity, In-dependent), would have altered the 700 codes, which currently state on-line voting is unconstitutional. After about 40 minutes of debate, the com-mittee failed the proposal, citing that the UF Supreme Court deemed on-line voting unconstitutional in 2006.
In the Spring 2016 SG elections, 
an amendment to implement online voting passed with more than 68 percent of votes in favor of it, ac-cording to Alligator archives. In Summer, the Supreme Court 
overturned four amendments, in-cluding online voting, made to the 
UF SG Constitution since 2008 on the 
basis that abstention votes weren’t correctly considered, according to archives. 
Chou said changing the codes 
wouldn’t affect the Spring election but would help make online voting a possibility. 
Judiciary Chairman Trevor 
Schaettle (District A, Impact) said the proposal was preemptive be-cause students will once again vote on an online voting amendment in Spring elections. He said the com-mittee has to follow Supreme Court rulings.
“Personally, I think we have to 
hear from the students ﬁ  rst,” Schaet-
tle said.Chou said he doesn’t think stu-
dents will be motivated to vote in 
the election, which he said isn’t as 
competitive.
Chou said the internet and tech-
nology has changed since the 2006 
Supreme Court ruling, which makes the issue worth revisiting.
He presented the revision be-
cause one of his campaign promises was to support online voting, Chou said. He now plans to gather support 
for the amendment, he said.
“I felt like I had to do something, 
because I did make this promise to 
advocate for online voting,” Chou said. “I knew going into the room the chances were not great.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  SG committee fails code revisions 
to legalize remote online voting 
On Sunday afternoon in Fine Arts Building C, about six students 
gathered for an open lab in the metal shop. The lab has different tools and materials, like anvils and oxygen gas, for students working with metals. Students can forge, weld and act as a blacksmith to create pieces for art projects and classes. “I thought nothing’s going 
to change if someone doesn’t 
take initiative.”
Josh Kickhoefer
Boycott OrganizerMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sophia Rose
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF professor Patricia Hilliard-
Nunn told a group of about 130 
people Saturday that a discussion on race needs to cover institutional racism in the U.S.
The African-American studies 
professor, who served as a panel-ist during a discussion about race relations hosted by the City of Gainesville, said discrimination 
and segregation are still present.
“I think that we still have work 
to do,” she said, “and not to be 
negative, but any honest discus-sion has to start from a position of knowledge and truth.”
A four-person panel spoke with 
Gainesville residents on how to better combat racial tension in the city. Hilliard-Nunn, a judge and two law enforcement ofﬁ  cials an-
swered questions and comments of 
concern during the meeting, held at the Gainesville Regional Utilities Administration Building, located at 301 SE Fourth Ave. Lloren Foster, the former executive director of UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, moderated the event. He said it was important to host events to promote conversations between people with opposing views.
“We live in a society that has 
the tendency to only advocate on behalf of a group of people at the expense of other folks,” Foster said.
Helen Warren, a Gainesville 
city commissioner, spoke on be-half of Mayor Lauren Poe and said Gainesville residents have to get 
out of their comfort zone and cre-
ate new conversations about race every day. 
She said she hopes more people 
begin to attend discussions to pro-mote change.
“Why it matters is, we can’t 
make progress if the same group of folks keeps showing up to the same 
conversations,” Warren said. 
 Gainesville oﬃ   cials hope to spark discussions on race
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Ringing in the New Year
Performers dance to celebrate the Chinese New Year, also known as the Spring Festival, 
hosted by UF’s Chinese American Student Association at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday night. More than 1,000 people watched traditional and modern performances, including a xiangsheng, a traditional Chinese comedy routine, and an a capella performance.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Friday 
for sexually battering a woman after spik-
ing her drink at a Midtown bar in December, Gainesville Police said.
On Dec. 14, Joey N. Friedman, 32, gave 
the woman a drink after she returned from the bathroom at Grog House Bar and Grill, located at 1718 W. University Ave., accord-ing to a police report. After dancing and drinking, she said she “blacked out.”
The woman, who was out with friends 
and had a mutual friend with Friedman, told police she had incomplete memories of be-ing tied up in a room and raped, according 
to the report.
She stared at the ceiling, trying to ignore 
what Friedman was doing, she told police, 
per the report. She was unable to move or speak.
She realized she was under the inﬂ  uence of a drug and confronted Friedman three days later, according to the report. 
About two weeks af-
terward, she told police about the night, accord-ing to the report. During questioning, Friedman told police speciﬁ  c details 
about what happened, even though he told the woman he couldn’t remember, because he had too much to drink.
On Wednesday, the woman called Fried-
man and asked what happened, according to the report. He told her he was drunk, too, and all he remembers is that they “had fun together.”
Police arrested Friedman on a charge of 
sexual battery. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Saturday afternoon on a $50,000 bond.
Friedman’s lawyer said he had no com-
ment.   GPD: Man spiked woman’s 
drink at Grog, battered her
Friedman
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Don’t be afraid to ask for help; it’s only natural
Our whole lives, we work to be inde-
pendent. College is our ﬁ  rst shot at in-dependence, and quite frankly, most 
of us blow it at least a little bit at the 
beginning. Try as we might to stop re-
lying on other people, we can never hope to be truly free from some sort of dependence on 
others, and that’s OK.
In order to function properly as people, we 
must ask for help from time to time. Howev-
er, this can be a vicious cycle. The process of becoming a highly functioning person will in-
evitably involve other people, but as highly functioning 
members of society, we sometimes struggle with admit-ting that we need help. When we succeed, we want the credit for it. 
In addition, asking for help can make us feel as though 
we are an inconvenience. As a journalism student, I am in a perpetual state of feeling like I’m bothering people. Believe me, I get it. Here’s the thing, though: You’re not an inconvenience.
I’ve discussed this in previous columns, but I cannot 
emphasize it enough. The most important asset we have in this world is each other. Of course, other people’s time is valuable. You shouldn’t waste their time just for the 
sake of wasting it. However, your time is not automati-
cally worth less than others’. You have just as much of a right to ask for help as anyone else.
Before each time I asked for help I used to think, “The 
worst they can say is ‘no.’” I’ve come to ﬁ  nd that this is 
simply not true. Sure, people can politely decline. People 
can also be extremely rude. People can ignore you. Peo-ple can promise to help and then not. People can chastise you for even suggesting they may have enough time in 
their busy day to help you out. But regardless, you are 
not out of line for asking. My point is that as people, we should both 
use our resources and be a resource. Ask for help. You are not asking too much, and you 
are not in the wrong. Give help. You are not 
above it, and you will not be dragged down. If you are too busy, direct them elsewhere. Give them what you can, and send them to some-
one who can give them what they need. 
There’s a reason we aren’t in this alone. 
There are more than 7 billion of us on this 
spinning ball we call home, and it is impossi-ble to navigate this life without enlisting some 
of them to be on your team. It’s not a sign of weakness. It’s actually a sign of strength.
Approaching someone and asking for assistance is of-
ten not an easy task. It takes courage. It takes self-aware-
ness. You have to recognize that what you understand, 
know or can do on your own just won’t cut it. This can be very difﬁ  cult. 
Asking for help does not mean you are lazy or unable 
to succeed on your own. It means you recognize a higher 
potential. It means you seek a higher level of success, 
and you are conﬁ  dent enough in yourself to realize that adding another person’s skills or knowledge to yours will only help you, and the human race, in the long run.
How many brilliant scientiﬁ  c papers give credit to 
just one person? How many people accept awards and don’t thank a single other person for helping them get that far? We can go fast alone, but we can go far to-gether. Whatever side of the request for help you are on, 
remember that. Helping another is only inconvenient if 
you’re thinking of just yourself. With that attitude, we can’t hope to do what the world needs us to do. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.Don’t let celebrity 
opinions distract 
from real issues
Nowadays it’s increasingly common for celebrities and 
entertainers to take a public stance on politics. With the ability to air their thoughts and opinions on social media with a few clicks, everyone is mostly aware of what celebrities have to say. It’s an interesting phe-
nomenon.
Some absolutely loathe this. They say that celebrities have 
no expertise on the matter and should keep singing, acting, writing or hosting their nightly comedy shows. “Harry Potter” author J.K. Rowling has frequently been called out on Twitter for her political stances, as has model Chrissy Teigen. That’s just scratching the surface.
But on the opposite end of the spectrum, some expect ev-
ery celebrity to have an opinion, calling them out when they 
don’t act or have a solid stance on a subject. Most recently, 
Lady Gaga has been criticized for not taking a political stance during her Super Bowl performance. 
Then there’s the whole mix of celebrities who get criti-
cized for having the “wrong” political opinion. Lena Dunham seems to be under ﬁ  re every few weeks or so. Bradley Cooper, the star of “American Sniper,” received intense criticism after showing up at the 2016 Democratic National Convention. 
For some reason, celebrities speaking out on politics — 
or “not” speaking out — tends to dominate trending news. Sometimes, what an A-list celebrity has to say (or doesn’t have to say) may overshadow the actual news going on. 
Should celebrities stay out of politics then?This is a tired adage, but we should treat them like we treat 
normal people when it comes to political opinions. Celebri-ties, when it comes down to it, are people — shiny, rich, per-fectly airbrushed people — nonetheless. They have the right to have an opinion. They have the right to not have one. 
And as a consumer, yes, you have the right to disagree with 
them. If a celebrity’s political opinion (or lack thereof) both-ers you, then yes, you have the right to stop listening to their music and unfollow them. Seriously, it takes two seconds to click “unfollow” if J.K. Rowling or Lena Dunham are really bothering you. You have the right to keep following them as well. Maybe your friends are swearing off a particular singer because of his stance on some hot topic issue, but hey, you really like his hit single. You don’t have to follow the crowd. 
Now some will argue that because celebrities have such a 
wide-reaching platform, they should be held to a higher stan-dard, since what they say (or don’t say) can inﬂ  uence a lot of people. We will agree to this to an extent. The thing is, there’s a difference between spewing hate messages and a political opinion — though, of course, some will argue that those lines are getting blurrier. And if it comes down to that, once again, social media is a powerful thing. You see celebrities calling each other out for hateful words, correcting each other.
It’s a slippery slope, though: When does a celebrity’s opin-
ion or Twitter beef turn into something more powerful? Has anyone really been convinced by what Beyoncé has said, or do the words of celebrities just polarize opinions even further?
At the end of the day, just remember this: The real issues 
are not what Kim Kardashian or Kanye West think about the subject, or whether you should unfollow them on Twitter be-cause you don’t agree with them. The real issues are, believe it or not, the actual events and decisions that affect the world.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
Asian-Americans in ﬁ  lm are hard to 
come by — and portrayals that don’t rely on stereotypes are even more sparse. I had always been aware of this to some extent, but this past 
week, as I was working on a project for my web apps class, it became even more clear. The assignment was to create a database, and so I sought to create a database of mov-ies with diverse casting — movies that didn’t have a completely white main cast. I saw this as a relatively low standard to meet, but I was surprised how hard it was to come by ﬁ  lms that met my standard. It was a struggle 
to ﬁ  nd ﬁ  lms with an inclusive cast across dif-
ferent genres, but when I started speciﬁ  cally looking for more Asian-American casts, I had to dig further into years past. One of the only ﬁ  lms in the past year I could easily ﬁ  nd with an Asian-American lead was “Lion,” which stars Dev Patel.
While Asian-Americans have had more 
success in TV lately, movie casting still leaves 
much to be desired. There is a lack of roles written for Asian-Americans, but 
there is also a lot of whitewash-ing, including, most recently, Til-da Swinton’s character in “Doctor Strange” and Scarlett Johansson’s 
role in “Ghost in the Shell.” Both 
were Asian in the source material and should have been played by Asian actors.
Since the cancellation of “All-
American Girl” in 1995, progress in inclusive casting of Asian-Americans on TV was completely stagnant until just recently. Because it was a one-of-
a-kind show at the time, its cancellation re-
vealed just how hard it is for minorities to break through. If “All-American Girl” had been about a white woman, it would be just another bad sitcom that went off the air, but because it was the ﬁ  rst one that featured an Asian-American in a starring role, there was a lot more pressure to prove that Asian-American representation was worth it.
More recently, “Fresh Off the Boat,” “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” and “Mas-ter of None” have shown that in-clusive programming is successful. Still, often token characters end up getting killed off, as was the case 
for Glenn Rhee on “The Walking 
Dead.” Even after getting their foot in the door with one role, it can be difﬁ  cult for Asian-American ac-tors to move onto other projects. “Master of None” is the notable exception, since Aziz Ansari was 
able to move from “Parks and Recreation” to creating and starring in his own show.
Even behind the camera, Asian-Americans 
struggle with representation in directing and producing roles, where they would be able to change the system from within. According to a study by USC Annenberg School for Com-munication and Journalism that included 1,000 popular ﬁ  lms, directors are majority white and male — only 3 percent of direc-tors are Asian or Asian-American, and only 
5.1 percent are black or African-American. Even among minority ﬁ  lmmakers, the direc-
tors were overwhelmingly male. The study also concluded that progress has been slow: “Consistent with female and Black helmers, there has been no change in the percentage 
of Asian directors from 2007 to 2016.”
Increasingly, Asian-Americans have be-
come more vocal. There is hope for better 
representation in front of and behind the camera. While media representation may seem like a superﬁ  cial and unimportant is-sue, according to The Critical Media Project, the media is where ideas that fuel inequality and injustice persist by reinforcing the idea 
that people of color are the “other.” Rep-
resentation is a way to ﬁ  ght the perpetual foreigner and model-minority stereotypes — among others — that are still prevalent today despite the insistence that we live in a post-racial society.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
There needs to be a bigger push for more Asian representation in media Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
By Randi Ziegler
Alligator Contributing Writer
When a live grenade landed 
near his squadron, Cpl. Duane 
Dewey thought on his feet, shov-ing the grenade into his pocket to 
spare his fellow Marines.
It was an act of valor that won 
him the Medal of Honor in 1953.
On Friday, a Gainesville road 
was renamed in his honor.
A crowd of about 70 people at-
tended the renaming ceremony, 
including Dewey himself, who 
wore civilian clothing and used a 
cane to stand.
Dewey, an 85-year-old 
Gainesville resident and Korean War veteran, smiled as Southeast 174th Place ofﬁ  cially became Cpl. Duane E. Dewey Place.
The Alachua County Veteran 
Services organized the renaming.
“The fun part of the job is mak-
ing a difference in the communi-ty,” said Kim Smith, the director of 
Alachua County Veteran Services.
Dewey, his wife of more than 
60 years and his grandchildren 
all attended the road-naming cer-emony.
Some guests even traveled from 
Michigan, his home state.
Among Dewey’s honors, he 
has been awarded a Purple Heart, a Combat Action Ribbon and the 
Medal of Honor, given to him by 
President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Smith said.
The medal is the highest mili-
tary honor, which is awarded for personal acts of valor above and beyond the call of duty.  
Burt Wetherington, a 36-year-
old Gainesville resident, said he 
attended the unveiling because his 
brother and best friend are also veterans.
“It means a lot to me, because 
it hits close to home,” he said.8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
By Michael Smith 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF students Hali McKinley Les-
ter and Sandra Vizer saw head-
lines about the refugee crises in 
Syria and Iraq, and they knew 
they wanted to help.
After months of planning, the 
two ofﬁ  cially started a UF chapter of the No Lost Generation student organization in December, with 
a goal of helping young refugees 
in Gainesville and Jacksonville, Florida. 
“We kind of live in a bubble, 
so it’s easy to forget that there are horrible things happening abroad,” said Vizer, a UF business 
administration junior.
The national organization, 
which has chapters at more than 50 universities, helps young refu-
gees by fundraising, advocating for local victims of the crises and 
coordinating tutoring and mentor-
ing programs, said McKinley Les-ter, a UF international studies and history junior.
“No Lost Generation comes 
from the idea that people have kind of dismissed the children of 
Syria,” said McKinley Lester, 20, 
who is the organization’s co-pres-ident along with Vizer.
The students haven’t raised 
any money or supplies yet but plan to in the future, Vizer said. 
In January, President Donald 
Trump signed an executive order indeﬁ  nitely halting the acceptance of Syrian refugees and temporar-
ily halting the U.S. refugee pro-
gram for 120 days. 
Vizer, 20, said she met McKin-
ley Lester through an online in-
ternship program in Summer, 
when the two decided to band to-gether to form the club.
The organization has had three 
meetings, and about 15 people have joined so far, Vizer said. 
Vizer and McKinley Lester said 
they want to focus on encourag-ing students to join mentorship and tutoring programs to help 
refugees. They plan to work with 
the organization Paper Airplanes, which focuses on academic tutor-
ing and English language classes, 
and Jusoor, a national mentor-ship, professional development and entrepreneurship program.
Rana Al-Nahhas, a 21-year-
old UF psychology senior, also founded a student organization in 
Spring 2015 to help Syrian refu-
gees.Students Organize for Syria at 
UF works to teach others about the crisis in Syria and advocate for refugee education. 
Al-Nahhas, whose parents are 
from Syria, said she hopes the two organizations will collaborate.
She said members of No Lost 
Generation should focus on the refugees, instead of making a po-litical statement. 
“I do believe that politics cre-
ates this tension with certain is-sues and certain circumstances,” Al-Nahhas said. “All that matters 
is that they are human. They need 
help.” 
 Through organization, UF students strive to help refugees Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
Gainesville protesters keep ﬁ  ghting DAPL
More than 20 people march down Northwest 75th Street to protest the Dakota Access pipeline 
during the Emergency Demonstration in Solidarity with Standing Rock on Sunday.
Road renamed to 
honor local Marine 
FAST FACTS: CPL. DUANE DEWEY
Joined Marines: 1951
Highest rank: Corporal Awards: The Purple Heart, the Medal of Honor, Combat Action Ribbon
Hometown: Grand Rapids, Michigan
Current residence: GainesvilleMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
us, and he was heavily bleeding, 
and his face was covered in blood.”
Singh, whose feet were run over 
by the car, said he immediately be-
gan placing pressure on Khullar’s 
injuries to stop the bleeding. Police officers and an ambulance arrived within minutes.
It wasn’t until Singh arrived 
at the hospital that he found out Khullar didn’t make it. It would have been Khullar’s first semester at UF, but his last as an undergrad-
uate.
“One of the nicest guys I knew,” 
Singh said, adding that Khullar was 
very punctual, religious and studi-
ous. “He doesn’t drink, smoke — 
nothing.”
Garcia fled the scene of the 
crash, but Florida Highway Patrol found her about 20 minutes later 
when she was reported for reck-
lessly driving southbound on In-terstate 75, Tobias wrote. Debris found at the scene of the crash matched parts of her car.
After being stopped in Marion 
County, Garcia’s blood alcohol content was recorded to be .147 and .139 — nearly double the legal limit. She told an FHP trooper she did not know what she hit.
Authorities took her to the 
Marion County Jail, charging her with a count of DUI manslaughter, 
two counts of DUI with injury and 
one count of leaving the scene of a crash involving death, according to the sworn complaint.
Garcia is expected to be extra-
dited to Alachua County in the fu-ture, Tobias said. 
                 @martindvassolo 
        mvassolo@alligator.orgFATAL,  from pg.1 The driver barreled into 
the UF student and left
found in Weimer Hall in January.
In the email, provided by Oren, Fuchs stated he 
hopes whoever wrote the messages is found.
“This is horrific!” Fuchs wrote, according to the 
email. “I will ask our staff to investigate and hope-
fully apprehend and prosecute.”
The incident comes three months after Trump 
won the presidential election on a campaign based, 
in part, on deporting illegal immigrants, and a 
month after he issued an executive order banning 
travel from seven Middle Eastern countries.
Oren said he believes racist people in the past 
might have been more hesitant to make these types 
of statements.
“Now in the current political atmosphere, they 
feel more empowered,” he said.
UF issued a statement Friday saying symbols and 
statements of hate disparaging others go against the university’s mission.
“We value many backgrounds represented on 
our campus, and together, we can make the Univer-
sity of Florida a more supportive and caring place,” 
the statement read.
Sikes said Fuchs contacted UF Student Affairs 
and UPD to ask them to investigate the incident.In addition to the investigation, police increased 
patrols near Anderson Hall and started checking to make sure the buildings’ doors and classrooms are 
locked at night, she said.
Sikes said the incident is not being treated as 
vandalism.
“It’s not vandalism,” she said. “It’s a white-
board, so it’s a little different.”
Sikes wrote in an email that as of 5 p.m. Sunday, 
police haven’t found proof of a crime. If a student wrote the words, the person would be referred to Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution. If it was an employee, the person would be referred to Hu-man Resources.
If someone not affiliated with UF was respon-
sible, UPD would ban them from campus, she said. 
Oren forwarded his emails with Fuchs to all fac-
ulty in the department and about 100 graduate stu-dents Friday morning, he said. 
Katy Burnett, a UF political science graduate 
student, said she was outraged when she received Oren’s email.
“I strongly believe that anyone who would do 
this needs to be expelled immediately,” the 34-year-old said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgWHITEBOARD,  from pg.1 Trump’s campaign slogan, racial 
scrawlings were left on whiteboard
hold and expected to end before 
new students would start, Sikes said it could play a role in prospec-tive students’ decision.
“We are concerned about that 
because a diverse student body is something, we as a public research university, value and are especially proud of,” she said.
Of admitted students, two are 
from Iran and two are from Iraq, countries that are affected by the ban.
Qambar Hasan, a high school 
senior from Coral Springs, Florida, knew he wanted to come to UF the minute he got accepted. 
The 17-year-old attending J.P. 
Taravella High School said he was driving Friday night when his 
friend told him admissions were 
out. At the first red light, he pulled 
out his phone to read his accep-
tance.
“Literally at that moment, I 
went from stressing out to being 
excited,” Hasan said. 
Hasan said he grew up a life-
long Gator fan. In Fall, he plans to 
major in biology as he follows his 
family and friends who attended UF.
“I’m just excited to be a part of Gator Nation and the wonderful at-
mosphere there,” Hasan said.
For Nada Hussein, waiting to 
hear that her brother was admitted 
to UF was as nerve-wracking as 
waiting for her decision two years 
ago. 
When she called her brother, 
Adam Hussein, she could hear in 
his voice how happy he was to 
come to UF, she said.
Nada Hussein, one of eight chil-
dren, said she’s excited to have an-
other sibling at UF.
“To have him in Gainesville, it’s 
like you don’t have to be worried or you don’t have to be scared, be-
cause you have someone in your 
corner,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgADMISSIONS,  from pg.1Four students are from countries affected by Trump’s travel ban
“I’m just excited to be a part 
of Gator Nation and the 
wonderful atmosphere there.”
Qambar Hasan
J.P. T aravella High School Senior“Next thing I remember, Karan 
was lying just 3 feet away from 
us, and he was heavily bleeding.”
Nikhil Singh
UF graduate studentMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. 
$375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com      2-15-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
FitBit Blaze with charger and band, great condition,
Battery life of 3-4 days, $115 (904) 930-9966.     2-14-17-2-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Designated drivers are the greatest●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS WANTED
FOR FLOWER SHOP FOR VALENTINES.
Must have own vehicle w/ proof of license & 
insurance. Apply in person 635 NW 13th St.    
2-14-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1. When was the last time before 
2014 that Oakland had six players 
named to the All-Star team?
2. Name the last major-league play-
er before Bryce Harper in 2015 to have 30 home runs and 100 walks in a season in which he was 22 or younger.
3. Jay Cutler holds the Chicago 
Bears record for most TD passes in a career (154). Who is No. 2?
4. Lon Kruger was the first men’s 
basketball coach to take five different 
teams to an NCAA Tournament. Who 
was the second? 
5. What was hockey legend Gordie 
Howe’s age when he won the World 
Hockey Association Most Valuable 
Player Award in 1974?
6. Bill Elliott won the Daytona 500 
twice during his NASCAR career. How many times did he have the Day-tona 500 pole position?
7. In 2016, Angelique Kerber 
became the oldest women’s tennis player (28) to debut at No. 1 in the WTA rankings. Who had been the oldest?
Answers
1. It was 1975, when the A’s had sev-
en players be part of the team.
2. Eddie Mathews, in 1954.3. Sid Luckman, with 137 (1939-
50).
4. Tubby Smith (Tulsa, Georgia, 
Kentucky, Minnesota, Texas Tech).
5. He had just turned 46 years old.6. Four times, including for both of 
his victories.
7. Jennifer Capriati, who was 25 
years, 200 days old when she became No. 1 in October 2001.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 13, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Show affection
to, as a dog
4 Barton of the Red
Cross
9 The Congo,
formerly
14 Martinique, par
exemple
15 Archaeological
find
16 Bother
17 *Track event with
batons
19 Night, in Naples
20 Congregational
“Absolutely!”
21 “__ beaucoup”
23 Lab rodent24 Schoolbook, or
much of its
contents
25 *Romantic outing
for four
27 “Romanian
Rhapsodies”
composer
29 Wears away30 John, Paul and
George: Abbr.
31 Under-the-sink
fitting
35 For fear that36 *Romantic ideal39 Farmland
measure
42 Steinway or
Yamaha
43 Crone
46 Yellow Teletubby
49 Meditative music
genre
51 *Machinist’s hole
maker
55 Ache
56 Announcer Hall57 Use a loom58 What aces may
count as
59 Black, in
Burgundy
61 Players on the
same side ... andwhat the starts ofthe answers tostarred clues canbe
64 Hues65 The “I” in IV66 High season on
the Riviera
67 Grain disease
68 Ruby Dee’s
husband Davis
69 Period, e.g.DOWN
1 High seas bandits
2 Periodic table
listing
3 Fax forerunners
4 Bawl
5 The Once-__:
“The Lorax”
character
6 Mission to
remember
7 Houston sch.
8 Biting, as
criticism
9 More wacky
10 Period with 365
días
11 For services
rendered insteadof cash
12 Revolves
13 Driver’s license
requirement
18 Aardvark fare
22 The NFL’s
Browns, on
sports tickers
25 Pour affection
(on)
26 Sweetie pie28 EMT procedure32 Knock hard33 Parisian pal34 Ryder Cup org.36 Big name in
computers
37 Holiday and
Days
38 Caviar
39 Firm, as pasta40 It’s usually locked
after parking
41 Attacking, as the
fridge
43 Full of ghosts44 Go along with45 Prepares47 L.A. Angels’
division
48 Big galoot50 Stagecoach
driver’s “Stop!”
52 4:1, e.g.53 Alternative to
odds
54 Theater chairs60 Classic car62 CAT scan cousin63 Fannie or Ginnie
follower
By Kurt Krauss
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/13/1702/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Delanie Gourley and UF's pitching staff dominated over the weekend, as the Florida softball team opened 2017 with ﬁ  ve wins. Read the story, pg. 16 Florida women's golf team trails after Day 1 of tourney
After one day of competition at the Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge, 
the UF women's golf team sits in fourth place (6-over par) behind UCLA, USC and Duke. Two players — Kelly Grassel (-2) and Maria T orres (-1) — are in 
the top 10 of the tournament. By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Mike White was smiling.
Maybe it was because his team 
had just won its sixth-straight game, three of which have come on the road and ﬁ  ve of which have come against conference oppo-nents.
Maybe it was because of the 
joke he had just made (“You guys looked brain dead in the ﬁ  rst half against Texas A&M,” one reporter remarked. “Brain dead is kind,” White said).
Or, more than likely, maybe it 
was because of the news White was given after No. 17 Florida’s 71-62 win over the Aggies on Sat-urday: The Gators were awarded 
the No. 3 seed in the NCAA Tour-
nament selection committee’s ﬁ  rst rankings of the season.
White shrugged his shoulders.
“The computers like us again,” 
he said.
With six games remaining in the 
regular season, the Florida basket-
ball program is experiencing a re-
surgence.
The Gators have more SEC wins 
than last season (nine) while be-
coming the ﬁ  rst conference team to reach 20 wins. They’re in prime 
position to not only make the 
NCAA Tournament — something 
UF hasn’t done since 2014 — but also land a top-four seeding, per-haps ahead of No. 15 Kentucky. 
And they’re ﬁ  nally seeing sus-
tained success under their head coach, a rare feat ever since UF’s Final Four run under former coach Billy Donovan three years ago.
“We’ve taken care of business,” 
White said, “and we’ve continued to get better.”
Now, however, the test for Flor-
ida will be to avoid another late-
season collapse.
Last year, UF destroyed its 
chances at an NCAA Tournament 
berth after losing four in a row to South Carolina, Vanderbilt, LSU  White, Florida men's basketball 
team peaking at the proper time 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Sunday wasn’t supposed to be 
easy for freshman guard Delicia 
Washington.
The Glen St. Mary, Florida, na-
tive’s left eye was completely swol-len shut and covered with tape after 
she took an elbow to the face from a 
male practice player 24 hours prior.However, when the visually im-
paired Washington stepped onto the ﬂ  oor at Coleman Coliseum to 
take on Alabama, she played one of 
the best games of her young career. 
Led by a strong and feverish 
third-quarter surge from UF’s in-
jured freshman, the Gators defeated 
the Crimson Tide 66-56 in Tusca-loosa to win consecutive games for 
the ﬁ  rst time in more than a month.Washington knocked down key 
buckets when Florida needed them 
most, tallying 12 points and 11 re-
bounds to record the ﬁ  rst double-
double of her college career.
Forward Ronni Williams con-
tinued her superb senior campaign 
as well, leading all scorers with 
19 points and 11 rebounds, while junior forward Haley Lorenzen 
notched 18 points on an efﬁ  cient 8-of-12 shooting from the ﬁ  eld.
For Alabama, junior forward 
Quanetria Bolton ﬁ  nished with 14 points, ﬁ  ve rebounds and 
two blocks, and guards Meosho-
nti Knight and Jordan Lewis also 
scored in double ﬁ  gures.
The difference-maker in the con-
test for both teams was rebounding. The Gators outrebounded the Crim-
son Tide 50-30 and transformed 16 offensive boards into 20 sec-ond-chance points, leading coach 
Amanda Butler to praise her team 
for its effort on the glass following 
the win.
“I thought we had a tremendous 
rebounding effort,” she said in a re-lease. “There were a lot of things 
that were not easy for us tonight… 
But ultimately, rebounding was the  Despite swollen eye, Washington leads UF women's hoops to victory  
MONDAY MATTERS / OPINION
Some students 
and fans have welcomed  coach Jim McElwain as 
God’s gift to football since he won his ﬁ  rst Gators game in 2015.
In part, they’re jus-
tiﬁ  ed. McElwain gave 
Florida fans hope, like spotting a lighthouse after years of being lost at sea under coach Will Muschamp.
McElwain even became the ﬁ  rst 
coach to lead his team to two SEC Championship Game appearances 
in his ﬁ  rst two seasons. 
But his success isn't sustainable, 
and Florida’s due for a down sea-
son. 
After going 10-4 and 9-4, UF will 
be lucky to do better than 7-5 next season because SEC teams are get-ting better, Florida is getting worse, and UF plays what’s arguably its 
most challenging schedule ever in 
2017. 
In terms of recruiting, some 
reporters considered McElwain’s jump in the recruiting rankings on National Signing Day, from the No. 19 class to No. 10 by the end of the day, a big win for the program.
But Florida still ﬁ  nished be-
hind four SEC teams, according to 247Sports. Florida even ﬁ  nished behind four teams that it plays in 
2017: Michigan, LSU, Georgia and 
FSU. 
Of 11 ﬁ  ve-star recruits who will 
suit up for SEC teams in 2017, none of them will call The Swamp home. 
To be fair, Florida reeled in a 
fair share of four- and three-star recruits. But those recruits aren’t going to make up for UF’s defense losing seven starters.
No more interceptions from 
Jalen Tabor, Quincy Wilson or Mar-cus Maye in the sec-ondary.
No more sacks 
from Caleb Brantley or Joey Ivie on the defen-sive line.
No more pad-
pounding hits from Jarrad Davis or Alex Anzalone in the line-backing corps. 
And even if somehow Florida’s 
recruits double their potential, or if Florida’s second-stringers play like All-Americans, UF still has to sur-vive its most hostile regular-season schedule in years. 
First, Florida will travel to Dallas 
— almost 1,000 miles — to lose to a Michigan team that embarrassed UF 41-7 on New Year’s Day 2016. 
Then UF will host a Tennessee 
team that beat it by 10. Two weeks later, UF faces Vanderbilt, a team UF beat by only seven points last year and two points the year before that.
Florida follows that with back-
to-back games against LSU and Texas A&M, two teams ranked as 
high as No. 5 and No. 6 in 2016. 
Two weeks after that, UF has 
to play a Georgia team that locked 
down the No. 3 recruiting class in the country.
Then the Seminoles come to 
Gainesville, where FSU hasn’t lost since Tim Tebow was under center.
So Florida fans: While McElwain 
and the Gators have enjoyed mod-erate success since his stint began in Gainesville, don’t expect UF to make a title run in 2017. This team will get worse before it gets better.
Matt Brannon is the assis-
tant sports editor. Contact him at 
mbrannon@alligator.org, and fol-low him on Twitter @MattB_727 UF football fans: Don’t 
expect SEC championship
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 15Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike White, right, speaks with guard Canyon Barry during Florida's win over T exas A&M on Saturday in the O'Connell Center. “We’ve taken care of business, ” White said, “and we’ve continued to get better. ”
Matt Brannon
twitter: @MattB_72714   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Claire Boyce (right) embraces a teammate during Florida’s win over Georgia on Friday 
in the O’Connell Center. Boyce scored a 9.875 on her ﬂ  oor routine. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs her uneven bars routine during Florida’s win over Georgia on Friday in the O’Connell Center. Baker scored a 9.90 on the apparatus, tying her with sophomore Alicia Boren for the third-highest score in the event. 
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Mollie Stevens (17) attacks a loose ball during No. 3 Florida’s 13-10 loss to No. 1 North Carolina on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Stevens recorded two goals in the loss. 
THE WEEKEND IN PHOTOS
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Justin Leon shoots during Florida’s win over T exas A&M on Saturday in the O’Connell Center. Leon led the Gators with 18 points — including 4-of-8 shooting from three-point range — and collected ﬁ  ve rebounds. Leon was one point away from tying a career high.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
and Kentucky in late February and 
early March.
And similar to last year, the 
road to the finish line won’t be any easier this season.
Florida’s final six opponents 
have a combined record of 100-49. Four of those games will come on the road, including a matchup with Kentucky, where the Wildcats will be looking for revenge after be-ing embarrassed by 22 points in Gainesville on Feb. 4.
But Florida’s players are em-
bracing the challenge.
“I think we’re definitely peaking 
at the right time,” graduate trans-fer Canyon Barry said. “No one has personal agendas, and I think that’s part of the reason we’ve been so successful.”
White agrees. After UF lost to 
Vanderbilt on Jan. 21, he criti-cized his team for being selfish and for blaming others instead of taking ownership of their mistakes.
Since then, the Gators haven’t lost a game, and White said UF has 
looked like a different team.
“These past few games, we just 
kind of really bought into every-
thing he’s preaching,” Barry said. 
“I think it shows.” 
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org 
HOOPS,  from pg.13Florida has six remaining regular-season games
separating factor.”
Florida (13-12, 4-8 SEC) got off 
to a slow start offensively, shooting 
a meager 34.3 percent in the first 
half.
After an evenly played opening 
quarter, baskets from Knight, soph-
omore forward Shaquera Wade and 
junior guard Hannah Cook pro-
pelled Alabama (15-10, 3-9 SEC) on a 9-0 run to give the Crimson Tide a 
21-14 lead halfway through the sec-
ond quarter.
The Gators responded with a run 
of their own, reducing the deficit to 
one point near the end of the frame 
to salvage an otherwise poor first 20 minutes.
“We didn’t score as many points 
in the first half as we normally do,” Butler said. “I thought we settled a little bit too much for jump shots.”
However, things changed quick-
ly for UF to start the third quarter.
Seven consecutive jumpers from 
Williams, Lorenzen and freshman 
guard Sydney Morang combined to 
lead Florida on a blistering 18-0 run out of the intermission, putting its 
lead at 44-31 with under 15 minutes 
left in the contest.
And after another strong stretch 
from the Crimson Tide whittled the 
Gators' advantage to three, the one-
eyed Washington put things away 
for her team.
The freshman nailed three straight shots — including two from 
behind the three-point arc — to 
score UF’s final eight points of the 
third quarter and shift the momen-
tum back to the visitor’s sideline.
Washington’s big buckets si-
lenced Alabama’s crowd in the final 
period, allowing the Gators to hang 
onto their lead and finish the game 
up by 10.
“Really at halftime we just talked 
about our desire level and what our heart and passion needed to look 
like,” Butler said on her team’s ex-
plosive second half. “All the credit 
goes to (the players).”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgWOMEN'S HOOPS , from pg.13UF opened the second half with an 18-0 runWEEKEND ROUNDUP 
Staff Report 
Lacrosse
With the score tied at nine and 
just under four minutes left in the game, North Carolina’s Sammy Jo Tracy received a pass.
After creating space from her de-
fender, Tracy readied her shot and fired the ball past Florida goalkeep-er Haley Hicklen.
10-9 UNC.Forty-two seconds later, Tracy 
came down the field and scored again, putting the game out of reach.
Tracy scored four goals, includ-
ing a second-half hat trick, while Ela Hazar led all players in points with six, which included two goals and four assists.
Both Tracy and Hazar proved 
to be too much for UF to handle, as No. 1 UNC (2-0) defeated No. 3 Florida (0-1) 13-10 on Saturday at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
The Gators started the game 
flat. Unable to get anything going 
against a UNC team that was con-trolling the match, Florida scored only three first-half goals.
Its scorers? Attacker Shayna Pir-
reca and midfielder Sydney Pirreca.
The Pirreca sisters each ended 
the game with hat tricks and, for most of the game, were Florida’s answer to its scoring droughts. 
“I mean, there’s a reason they’re 
scoring those goals,” coach Aman-da O’Leary said. “Every day after 
practice, they’re the ones staying 
after. They’re putting in the extra effort. So it’s not a surprise they continue to lead in goals. So it’s just the work that they’ve put in.”
The second half featured more 
success for Florida than the first.
Attacker Sammi Burgess opened 
the scoring 1:16 into the second half, blowing one by UNC goal-keeper Caylee Waters.
But for the next nine minutes, 
both teams traded goals, negating any hopes Florida had of getting back into the game.
“I thought it 
was a good effort for a first game,” Shayna Pirreca said. “There were definitely some little kinks here and there, but that’s expect-
ed on your first 
game. But I thought we had a really good effort.”
- Jake DreilingerMen’s tennisThe UF men’s tennis team trav-
elled to Virginia looking for its third straight win over a top-10 opponent and first victory over Virginia un-der coach Bryan Shelton.
But the No. 6 Gators (6-1) fell 
short against the No. 1 Cavaliers (4-0), suffering their first lost of the season by a score of 2-5.
“Virginia played better than us 
on the critical points today in both doubles and singles,” Shelton said in a release. “We will watch the videos and figure out what we need to improve in order to reverse this result the next time.”
Unlike previous matches against 
top-10 opponents, Florida was un-able to bounce back after losing the critical doubles point.
Sophomore  
Alfredo Perez 
was able leave 
Charlottesville with a victory, playing in the longest match of the day and defeating UVA’s 
Collin Altamira-
no on Court 1. Perez pulled out the 
hard-fought match in two sets, win-
ning 7-6 (7-1), 7-5 and ending the day for the Gators on a high note.
Freshman Johannes Ingildsen, 
doubles partner of Perez, also left individually victorious, defeating Alexander Ritschard 6-2, 0-6, 6-3.
- Mark Stine Track and field 
Florida track and field coach 
Mike Holloway’s answer was sim-
ple.
When asked last Wednesday 
who on his team he’d like to see improve over the weekend at the Tyson Invitational in Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the Iowa State Clas-sic in Ames, Iowa, he said every-
one.
“Anybody who puts on the 
Gator uniform,” Holloway said. 
And the team did show im-
provement. 
Florida standout freshman 
Grant Holloway topped the Divi-
sion I-leading 60-meter hurdle time of 7.61 by posting a time of 7.58 at the Tyson Invitational.
Gators pole vaulter Aaron Ow-
ens had a career-best day, clearing 
four straight bars for a personal re-cord of 5.40 meters — tied for the 
No. 2 spot on Florida’s all-time list.
Senior distance runner Taylor 
Tubbs ran for a career-best time 
on the first day of the Iowa State 
Classic. 
And junior 
KeAndre Bates surpassed his previous record by 10 centime-ters in the men’s triple jump in-
vitational with 
a mark of 16.76 
meters — a re-
sult that ranks second in Division I. 
“The biggest thing for us right 
now is we have to remember who we are, and how we do things.” Holloway said in a release. “At the end of the day, this is the time 
of the year we show up and per-
form well, and we have to do that again.”
- Daniel Smithson Women’s tennis  
After only 10 minutes had 
passed in the match, Florida fans at the Cullman-Heyman Tennis Cen-ter became silent. 
The Gators fell behind 1-0 on all 
three doubles courts. However, this did not last for long as the doubles team of Brooke Austin and Kourt-ney Keegan, as well as Anna Dani-lina and Ingrid Neel, began to find a rhythm, coming back in a trying doubles match to win 6-3 and 6-2, respectively. 
This gave the Gators the doubles 
point and helped them advance to 6-0 after blanking No. 6 Georgia 
4-0 Sunday. With the win, the No. 1 Gators will move forward to the National Indoor finals against No. 2 
North Carolina on Monday. 
While Flori-
da rallied after a cold start in doubles, singles play proved to be difficult for the Gators as 
both Belinda 
Woolcock and 
Neel went to tie-
breaker sets within their matches. Danilina faced the toughest fight of the day, going down 6-1 in the first set against Georgia’s Kennedy Shaf-fer. She fought back in the second set to win 6-4, and the final set was 
tied 3-3 when the match ended. 
Going deep in sets was a trend 
all weekend after Florida opened 
the tournament against No. 13 Michigan on Friday. For the first and only time this season, the Gators fell behind early as they lost the doubles point. However, Flor-ida recovered and won the match 
4-1. 
The team found its groove, how-
ever, on Saturday with a 4-1 win 
against No. 12 Texas Tech. After winning the doubles point, Neel and Woolcock had quick, decisive victories, winning 6-0, 6-4 and 6-4, 6-3. 
Florida will get more tough com-
petition this weekend, hosting No. 5 Oklahoma State on Saturday and No. 4 Stanford on Sunday. 
- Spencer Thompson 
For full recaps from each sport, 
go online to alligator.org/sports
UF lacrosse and men's tennis struggle against top-ranked teams
Perez
Bates
Pirreca 
Danilina
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Delicia Washington dribbles during UF's win over Arkansas on Thursday.
 UF’S REMAINING GAMES
Tuesday @ Auburn (16-9)
Saturday @ Mississippi St. (14-
10)Feb. 21 vs. No. 19 South Carolina (20-5)Feb. 25 @ No. 15 Kentucky (20-5)March 1 vs. Arkansas (18-7)
March 4 @ Vanderbilt (12-13)16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
This week in UF sports
Monday:
• Women's golf @ Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge
• Women's tennis @ National T eam Indoor Championships
Tuesday:
• Men's basketball @ Auburn, 7 p.m., SEC Network
• Women's golf @ Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge
• Swimming and diving @ SEC Championships
Wednesday:
• Lacrosse vs Scotland National T eam (Exhibition), 5 p.m.
• Swimming and diving @ SEC Championships
• Softball @ Jacksonville, 6 p.m.
Thursday:
• Swimming and diving @ SEC Championships, SEC Network +
• Women's basketball vs Missouri 7 p.m. SEC Network +
Friday:
• Baseball vs William & Mary, 6:30 p.m., SEC Network +
• Gymnastics @ Arkansas, 7 p.m., SEC Network
• Men's tennis @ National T eam Indoor Championships
• Swimming and diving @ SEC Championships, SEC Network +
• Softball vs Northwestern State, 6 p.m.
Saturday:
• Men's basketball @ Mississippi State, 2 p.m., ESPN
• Baseball vs William & Mary, 4 p.m., SEC Network +
• Men's golf @ SunTrust Gator Invitational
• Men's tennis @ National T eam Indoor Championships
• Swimming and diving @ SEC Championships, SEC Network +
• Softball vs Northwestern State, 12 p.m.
• Softball vs Maryland, 2:15 p.m.
• Women's tennis vs Oklahoma State, 4 p.m.
Sunday:
• Baseball vs William & Mary, 1 p.m., SEC Network +
• Men's golf @ Suntrust Gator Invitational
• Women's golf @ Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Championship
• Men's tennis @ National T eam Indoor Championships
• Softball vs FIU, 11:15 a.m.
• Women's tennis vs Stanford, noon
• Women's basketball @ Kentucky, 1 p.m., SEC Network
• Softball vs Florida A&M, 1:30 p.m.By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
For the fourth consecutive year, 
the Florida Gators softball team 
started the year with an undefeated record at the USF-Wilson Demarini Tournament in Tampa.
While veteran playmakers large-
ly lived up to expectations and the pitching was smothering, the team’s youth also captured plenty of excite-ment over the weekend.
Freshman third baseman Jaimie 
Hoover played like anything but a freshman, including a grand slam in UF’s fourth game against the Dela-
ware Blue Hens to give the Gators 
a cushiony lead. Hoover also made key defensive plays that got Florida off the ﬁ  eld.And although UF’s bullpen was 
billed as one of the strongest in the country, Florida got a boost from its newest player on the mound. Fresh-man Katie Chronister saw her ﬁ  rst action against the Blue Hens, throw-ing a one-hit shutout with four 
strikeouts and a walk on 55 pitches.
Commendable play from young-
er players led to less pressure on 
Florida’s top three pitchers. The trio of Delanie Gourley, Aleshia Ocasio and Kelly Barnhill combined for 42 strikeouts.
Over the course of ﬁ  ve games — 
two of them against No. 6 Michigan 
and No. 25 USF — the Gators sur-
rendered only 10 hits and three runs in total.
The battle with the Wolverines 
proved to be the Gators’ toughest, as the two teams fought into the 10th inning tied at one run apiece.  The drought ceased after an RBI single brought home junior second baseman Nicole DeWitt to put Flor-ida up 2-1.
Besides that game, Florida’s of-
fense looked smooth and polished. The Gators outscored their oppo-nents 33-3, and seven Florida play-ers hit home runs. Sophomore out-ﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz blasted three balls over the fence and knocked in eight RBIs, leading the team in both categories.
The Gators will next face Jack-
sonville on the road Wednesday at 6 p.m.
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.org    Softball sweeps  opening tourney
Alligator File Photo
Amanda Lorenz bats during Florida’s doubleheader vs. Jacksonville on Feb. 17, 2016.
