We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 114 THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
UF men’s basketball beats Arkansas
The Gators took down the Razorbacks on 
Senior Day, pg. 14
Our Avenue writer eats her words
After snubbing Satchel’s from her pizza ranking, our writer reconsidered. Read her ﬁ  rst-person account, pg. 8
A look at ﬁ  nance reports from the SG election
How Progress Party and Impact Party spent and raised, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorIT WAS RANKED OUT OF 
358 CITIES.
By Mollee Jakubisin 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville was recently named one of 
the top cities in which to start a new busi-
ness, and it may have UF and Santa Fe Col-
lege to thank.
HeroPay Academy, a California-based 
company, conducted a nationwide study  released in February, which analyzed data 
from 358 cities to determine the best cities to start up businesses, said Hiro Taylor, the company’s CEO. 
Gainesville ranked 39th on the list, com-
ing in behind Kansas City, Missouri. Chey-enne, Wyoming, took ﬁ  rst place.
The study considered various factors, 
including unemployment rates, commute to work, cost of living and access to an edu-cated work force, Taylor said.
Gainesville isn’t the only college town ranked on the list. The cities that are home to the University of Georgia, Cornell Univer-sity and Pennsylvania State University are just a few of the ones that also made the 
list.
“College towns have a natural advantage 
in a large access to an educated employee base, and that’s going to help create com-
munities that have companies with great employees,” he said.
Greg Banks, the owner of a local insur-
ance group that opened in July 2014, said he was not surprised by the statistics. 
“It’s a great talent pool to pull from,” he 
said. 
Banks said he loves Gainesville because 
it’s the perfect mixture of small- and big-town living, but he feels the city needs to do a little more to make it appealing to gradu-
ates. 
“If you hire somebody you want them 
to stay,” he said. “Young talent, if it ﬁ  ts, 
is great.”  Gainesville ranks No. 39 for cities to start new businessesWill Coburn / Alligator Staff
STUDENTS CELEBRATE ASH WEDNESDAY
Carina Marchetti, a 21-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering junior, applies ashes to the forehead of 
Jamie T ompkins, an 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman. “I’m really proud of this Catholic Gators community, and I wanted to show the rest of campus what Catholic Gators can offer people, ” T ompkins said. “It’s always really cool to step out of church and show the rest of campus what we’re really about.”
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Disillusioned with a UF Stu-
dent Government dominated by 
a single majority party, one stu-
dent plans to create his own.
Hansberry Pierre, a UF fresh-
man with no previous experience 
with SG, said he doesn’t feel rep-
resented by the current represen-
tatives, most of which are afﬁ  li-
ated with Impact Party. 
In the past two elections, Im-
pact has claimed 97 of 100 Stu-
dent Senate seats. 
Pierre created a Facebook 
page in February to gather others who are frustrated with SG and gauge their interest in creating a party. 
He began posting on Feb. 24, 
after learning of Impact’s domi-nance in the Spring elections.
“I want there to be a Student 
Government that is representa-tive of the entire, diverse Student Body,” the 20-year-old UF biol-ogy and sociology freshman said. 
As of Wednesday, his page 
had 168 likes.
He said SG hasn’t been trans-parent, especially because of the lack of advertising about the 
Spring election and explanation 
of amendments. 
Pierre didn’t vote in the past 
election and said he only knew about it after an Impact Party 
member approached him.
“Once there’s a one-party 
election, that causes many peo-
ple to be voiceless,” he said. “I 
did not feel that I had a choice.”
Right now, Pierre said he’s 
still making initial plans to form 
a party by reaching out to those involved in SG to learn about its 
rules and regulations. 
Vrushank Desai, 18, was one 
of the ﬁ  rst people to like the Face-
book page. The UF mechanical 
engineering freshman said there 
should be a second party to rep-resent non-Greek students.
“I deﬁ  nitely hope there’s 
enough buzz generated by that 
page to form a strong opposition 
to implement online voting,” he said. “I’m hoping to see some-thing like Access (Party) return.” 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  UF student plans 
to create new 
SG party in Fall
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville City Commission candidates were all in 
agreement Wednesday night: The commission must in-
volve younger community members, primarily UF stu-dents, in local elections.
The UF College Democrats, UF College Republicans 
and nonpartisan student fellows from the Bob Graham Center for Public Service hosted the candidates, during which they discussed civil citations for marijuana, alter-
native-energy options, trafﬁ  c in Gainesville and transpor-
tation. About 20 students who attended were given the 
opportunity to ask questions.
Elections for city commission seats will be held March 
14. 
The candidates included Jenn Powell and Helen War- Candidates for City Commission 
voice platforms, ideas at forum 
SEE CANDIDATES,  PAGE 4He wants to contend with 
single-party dominanceSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 114
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  69° LOW  44°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF School of Theatre and Dance 
presents Dance 2017
The UF School of Theatre and Dance is proud to present Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner today 
at the Constans Theatre. Dance 
2017 sets the standard for pre-senting bold and unapologetical-ly original contemporary dance. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for seniors and UF staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the University 
Box Office. More information is 
available at arts.ufl.edu.
UF’s Fine Arts College Council 
presents the 2016-2017 FACC Student Juried Arts ExhibitionThe Fine Arts College Council (FACC) at UF is pleased to pres-ent the 2016-2017 FACC Student 
Juried Arts Exhibition today in 
the University Gallery. From sculpture and installation to ce-ramics, painting, photography and video, the exhibition fea-tures the work of graduate and undergraduate students from the College of the Arts in the UF School of Art + Art History. It 
also features a special dance per-
formance by students from the UF School of Theatre and Dance. All events are free and open to the public.
Grove Street block party
The Grove Street neighborhood is getting a makeover with the 
addition of a new brewery, ca-
fes and eight new murals by local and international artists. This is a nonprofit community project that’s wrapping up with a block party Saturday at 2 p.m. on Powell Plaza, located at 219 NW 10th Ave. There will be food trucks, DJs, performers, poi 
spinners, projections, a poetry 
reading by Spencer Rooney, art vendors, meet and greets with artists, live painting, a commu-nity mural and more. 
Sunstock Solar Festival 
Sunstock, a 100 percent solar-powered music festival, will 
be partnering with Changeville 
2017: Gainesville’s Social Change Festival to host the offi-cial Changeville after party from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. Saturday at Swamp Head Brewery, Florida’s first and only solar-powered brewery. All music will be pow-ered with clean, renewable en-
ergy. Let’s show the music fes-
tival community and the rest of the world that the future of clean energy is here, and it comes from our own star. The idea is to create a movement within the music festival community to use environmentally sustainable energy sources and strategies to encourage fans of music and 
art to work toward reducing our 
carbon footprint. All music and lights will be powered by bat-teries charged with our mobile solar generator. Come rock out, and be a part of the next solar powered festival in Gainesville. Admission is free. 
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels, including first-timers. Classes will take place in Dance Studio A at the Reitz Union on Sundays. The beginner’s class will begin at 6:15 p.m., followed 
by an intermediate/advanced 
class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, bal-let, salsa shoes or even a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Florida Museum to host kid-free 
camp for grown-ups March 10Come to the Florida Museum of Natural History for an adults-only evening camp March 10 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Activities include access to museum ex-hibits, arts and crafts and a na-ture night walk in the nearby UF 
Natural Area Teaching Lab. The 
camp is $20 for museum mem-bers and $25 for non-members. Pre-registration is required, and participants must be 18 years or older. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/kid-free-camp or call 352-273-2061.
Check out Ask a Scientist: 
Geology on March 12 at Florida MuseumFlorida Museum of Natural History visitors may bring speci-mens and find answers during an afternoon of discovery and learning March 12 from 1 p.m. 
to 4 p.m. Participants of Ask a 
Scientist: Geology can talk one-on-one with researchers from UF’s department of geological sciences. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/ask-scientist-geology or call 352-273-2062.
Florida Museum hosts Can You 
Dig It? on March 18Discover the earth at your feet during this free, fun-for-all-ages geology event at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Enjoy hands-on activities from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. March 18 at Can You Dig It? and watch dem-onstrations of volcanic eruptions. The event is presented in part by the UF department of geological sciences. For more information, 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/canyoudigit 
or call 352-273-2062.
UF National Student Speech 
Language Hearing Association The 2017 Stride Against Silence 5K Run/Walk, benefitting the UF Health Speech and Hearing Center, is just around the corner. 
The race will begin at 8:30 a.m. 
March 18. Following the race, there will be fun-filled activities for all ages. Make sure to register early to guarantee your shirt and goodie bag. There will be priz-es for the most creative team, the largest team and all heroes. Register now at bit.ly/2ktWm4A.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION: 
In an article published March 1, titled “Cuban-born UF grads to sell paintings for hurricane relief,” the Alligator incorrectly reported the artists would be 
selling their paintings to ben-
efit a city in Cuba ravaged by Hurricane Matthew. The paint-ings will not be sold. Instead, money from the gallery's entry fee will be donated.
CLARIFICATION:
In an article published March 1 titled "Students plan to make video, audio of women's march public," the Alligator reported that the Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program organized a 
trip to document the Women's March on Washington. The trip was organized in partnership with the UF Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women's Studies Research.THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
1504 NW 13th St · 352-372-7836
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A 3-year-old with nothing but a dirty dia-
per on was found wandering on Northwest 
39th Avenue Tuesday after his caretaker fell asleep, Gainesville Police said.
Charles Gene Ragans, 46, was left to care 
for his girlfriend’s child at about 8:20 a.m. and let the child play in his backyard un-supervised, according to an arrest report. While Ragans wasn’t looking, the child walked onto the roadway, before a passerby called police.
Witnesses gave clothes to the child, who 
was only wearing a diaper, according to the report. The child said, “Mommy left in 
a blue truck” and “At Charles’s house we 
knock on door,” according to the report.
About an hour after the child was found, 
Ragans told police the child was playing when he fell asleep wait-ing for the babysitter.
Ragans smelled like 
alcohol, and police found beer cans all over his house, according to the report. 
Police checked Ra-
gans’ backyard and found trash and sharp pieces of 
broken pots, according to the report. They found the gate could easily be opened by a 
child, but the back door to the house was 
locked. An investigating ofﬁ  cer speculated the child tried to get back into the house but was locked out.
Police arrested Ragans on a charge of 
child neglect. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains as of press time in lieu of a $50,000 bond. GPD: 3-year-old found in road 
after caretaker fell asleep
Ragans
By Bailey LeFever 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF alumnus is one of 36 U.S. citizens to 
earn a prestigious University of Cambridge 
scholarship. 
Grant Simpson, who graduated from UF in 
2014 with a bachelor’s degree in chemistry and 
cognitive and behavioral neuroscience, said he 
found out he won the Gates Cambridge Scholar-ship on Feb. 1. 
In total, 800 people applied, he said.In October, he will travel to the University of 
Cambridge, located in Cambridgeshire, England, to pursue a master’s in philosophy and chemis-try while researching anti-cancer strategies. 
“Everyone over there is at the top of their 
game, so it will be a chance to study at one of the best institutions in the world,” Simpson said. 
His project, which he developed with a UF professor, aims to discover new ways to prevent cancer by attaching antibodies and 
cytoplasmic drugs, both of 
which target cancer cells, to a quadruple helical DNA, he said. 
This is the third year in a 
row a UF alumnus was se-lected as a Gates Cambridge 
Scholar, according to a UF News press release. 
Dr. Khan Ha, a former UF teaching associate 
and current resident at Massachusetts General Hospital, said he’s happy for his former student, who has applied for the Cambridge program be-fore.  
“I know that he has the qualiﬁ  cations to do 
well, but at the same time he didn’t get it last year, so I was excited beyond a doubt,” Ha said.  UF alumnus to travel to 
England, research cancer
Simpson
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
FL YING HIGH 
Unmil Patel, a 20-year-old UF mechanical and aerospace engineering junior, 
catches a flying disc on the North Lawn on Wednesday afternoon.
By Harrison O’Keeffe
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cox Communications will host its 
Interactive Smart Home event today to showcase its high-speed internet capabilities in Gainesville. 
The event, located at 3648 NW 28th Court, 
comes after the Gainesville City Commission voted in February to study Gainesville and Alachua County’s internet problems, said Bryan Eastman, a co-founder of the internet advocacy group Connected Gainesville. 
Gainesville’s internet coverage currently 
has the highest rates of any city in Florida, according to Alligator archives.
Cox will have a showing at a Fletcher Oaks 
model home from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m., said Cam Johnson, a Cox public affairs manager. The smart home will be connected to more than 50 devices using the company’s high-speed internet. 
“By 2022, we’ll have 50-plus devices in 
every home,” he said. “We want to show that Cox internet can support that today with packages already available to our customers.”  
Eastman said he agreed.“I think Cox is 100-percent right,” Eastman 
said. “We’re going to be more dependent on high-speed internet in the future, but 
Gainesville lacks the accessibility and 
affordability to support that.”
Eastman added that some pockets in east 
Gainesville and Hawthorne can’t access broadband internet at all. 
One individual who will be at the event 
today is Gainesville City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos. He said Cox invited him to the 
event. 
Gainesville has one company that sells 
broadband internet, and Cox takes advantage 
of the lack of competition, Hayes-Santos has 
said, according to archives.
“Being an innovation city means we should 
be a leader and not lagging behind the rest of the state,” Hayes-Santos said.
Johnson said Cox provides multiple high-
speed internet packages that fit its customers’ 
needs, but the company is willing to help with 
the internet study. 
“Cox hopes to be an active participant with 
the study,” Johnson said. “We’re happy to 
partner with the county and city to help with 
whatever the study may find.”Cox internet to host event as 
city aims to study problems
THE STUDY USED DATA 
DATED AS FAR BACK AS 1999.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
A recent study shows the legalization of 
same-sex marriage is associated with fewer 
adolescent suicide attempts.
JAMA Pediatrics, a peer-reviewed medi-
cal journal, published a report Feb. 20 that showed self-reported suicide attempts of public high-school students have decreased by 7 per-
cent in the past year, partly because of same-
sex marriage policies.
Suicide is the second-most common cause 
of death for those between the ages of 15 and 24, and sexual minorities are at a higher risk, according to the study. The study used state-
level Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System 
data from as far back as 1999 to 2015, with a 
total of 762,678 students. 
“Same-sex marriage policies are associated 
with reduced adolescent suicide attempts,” the 
study found.
For Joe Antonelli, an LGBTQ+ activist, it’s 
a good sign.
“The studies are indicative of the stable, se-
cure environment — more secure than it might 
have been,” he said.
Antonelli, who started the LGBTQ+ so-
cial group Gainesville Community Alliance 26 
years ago, said it makes sense that suicide at-
tempts have declined since the environment in 
2017 is much more accepting.
“In my time, if teenagers came out to their family they were thrown out of their homes,” 
the 73-year-old said.
Originally from Boston, he has advocated 
for LGBTQ+ rights for more than 50 years. 
The increase of information and discussion 
on gay issues allows teenagers to feel slightly 
more accepted, Antonelli said.
In the ‘60s and ‘70s, it was common for gay 
or lesbian teenagers to feel isolated and run away from home as a result, he said. Luckily, that doesn’t happen as often today, he added.
“There was no social media then, there 
were no chat rooms, there were no places to talk to other people, and there weren’t things being published where people could find infor-
mation,” he said. 
Melissa Martinez, a UF astronomy junior, 
was happy when same-sex marriage became legal nationwide in June 2015, but she said she thought it should have happened way earlier. 
Martinez, who said she has many bisexual and gay friends, knows how cruel others can be to-ward the LGBTQ+ community.
“One of my friends, when she came out, 
she really struggled with it,” the 21-year-old said. 
Although she identifies as heterosexual, 
Martinez said it’s important to recognize that 
individuals are still bullied simply because of 
their sexual orientation.
“I don’t know if we’ll ever get to the point 
of being pro-LGBTQ, but I think we’re accept-ing,” she said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgStudy links decline in teen suicide attempts to marriage laws
ren for at-large positions, Sheryl 
Eddie, Perry Clawson and Harvey Ward Jr. for District 2, and David Arreola and Craig Carter for District 3. Both Clawson and Carter were absent.
Ward was the only candidate to 
propose moving the date of the city commission election from March to either the primary elections in August or the general elections in November to improve voter turnout and save money.
“We can involve more people by 
moving the elections; we can save a couple hundred thousand dollars,” he said.
Although Ward’s suggestion was 
unique at the forum, Gainesville residents have petitioned to change the date of the election in previous years.
During the forum, candidates 
agreed that solar energy is the most practical form of renewable and al-ternative energy in Gainesville, but 
Powell said if elected, she wouldn’t 
want to get involved in expensive, 
lengthy energy contracts.
“We need to be careful that we 
don’t sign up for something that’s going to cost us a lot of money in the long run,” Powell said.
Arreola, who was the only one to 
represent District 3 at the forum be-cause of Carter’s absence, empha-sized the importance of improving voter turnout.
“Ultimately, us candidates have 
to do a better job of reaching out,” he said, “but when historically the 
turnout is so low, sometimes it’s dif-
ficult.”
Dillon Boatner, 20, who attend-ed the forum, said he agrees with Arreola.
“Our local government tends 
to have the greatest impact on our 
daily lives,” the UF political science 
sophomore said. “I think it’s critical 
that young people understand that.”
Graham Center student fellow 
Hali McKinley Lester, who moder-
ated the forum, said although she doesn’t want to endorse anyone in fear of swaying others’ opinions, she was impressed by all the can-didates.
“I really thought each person 
presented important points,” said the 20-year-old UF international studies and history junior. “I appre-ciated that it was a very civil discus-sion.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
CANDIDATES,  from pg1One candidate suggested changing the date to increase vote turnout
Molly Vossler / Alligator 
District 2 Gainesville City Commission candidates Sheryl Eddie and Harvey Ward Jr. answered questions prepared by UF students in Pugh Hall at a forum on Wednesday evening.
THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
For: UF Student Government
T otal raised   T otal spent
Impact:   6,555.89     9,387.71
Progress: 0   154.73
HEALTH
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF Health physician will visit 
high-school baseball games in Ala-chua County this year, but he’ll only be watching the pitchers. 
Dr. Jason Zaremski, a UF Col-
lege of Medicine assistant professor of orthopaedics and rehabilitation, is conducting a study with the hope to decrease the number of overuse injuries in high-school baseball players, especially pitchers. He wants to understand why young pitchers frequently tear their ulnar collateral ligament, located inside the elbow, Zaremski said. 
“The number of injuries is going 
up and up to the point where peo-
ple are losing their seasons because 
of surgery and potentially losing 
their careers,” the 40-year-old said. 
“It used to be an issue at the pro-
fessional level, and now this is an 
issue at the high-school level.”
Zaremski said the injuries are 
associated with overuse, especially in Florida, where the weather al-
lows for yearlong baseball. Zarem-
ski, himself a former catcher on Emory University’s baseball team, 
said more off-season training can 
prevent injury from overuse.“The important thing is to have 
a four- to six-week throwing pro-gram to build your arm strength up, 
so that you’re not coming into your 
ﬁ  rst day of spring training having 
only thrown for a week,” Zaremski 
said.
In fall 2016, the National Feder-
ation of State High School Associa-tions required high-school coaches 
to limit how many pitches a player 
throws per game, as opposed to 
limiting the number of innings they 
play in, Zaremski said.
But in Florida, high-school base-
ball teams follow MLB’s pitching guidelines, where the maximum pitches per game depends on play-ers’ ages, he said.
Zaremski and a team of 10 re-
searchers, who believe players are throwing well over the maximum 
number of pitches per MLB guide-
lines, will attend Alachua County 
high-school baseball games this 
spring to count how many pitches an individual throws in a game, 
while also counting on- and off-
ﬁ  eld practice throws. 
“We are not looking at injuries 
this year, we’re looking at the num-ber of pitches,” Zaremski said. 
Zaremski said he plans to pub-
lish the results in a sports medicine journal in 2018.
Sean Dobbs, the head coach 
of Eastside High School’s base-
ball team, said his pitchers throw 
no more than 80 times in a single 
game — although that’s tough to regulate. In addition to working their arms in travel teams during 
the off-season, most high-school 
pitchers play a second position dur-
ing the regular season. 
“In college, it’s just going to be 
a pitcher,” Dobbs, 29, said, “but in high school, he might also be your shortstop, so over the course of a week, he’s making a ton of throws.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org  UF physician aiming to limit baseball injuries through study
His study will focus on the number of high schooler’s pitchesBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After Student Government elections, parties 
and independent candidates submitted their ﬁ  nal campaign ﬁ  nance reports Monday.
Impact Party spent $9,387.71 for its campaign, 
with the help of $6,555.89 in donations, accord-ing to the reports. The party’s spending increased by $2,611.61 from Fall 2016’s campaign, accord-ing to Alligator archives. 
Impact spokesperson Janae Moodie wrote in 
an email there was a mistake in the reports, and she declined to comment further on Impact’s spending.  
“It appears as if the supervisor of elections has 
made an error when uploading the donor docu-
ments,” she said. “He has been notiﬁ  ed of the 
mistake. I don’t have any more information at this time.”
Pulkit Kumar Dhir, the only independent to win a Student Senate seat this semester, said he spent no money campaigning.
“It was mainly just a campaign on Facebook 
and word of mouth,” said Dhir, now a graduate senator. 
Progress Party, which had seven candidates 
lose, spent $154.73, according to the reports.
“The whole thing about politics, as much as I 
hate and as much as everyone hates it, it’s fueled by money,” Progress President Casey Witte said. 
Witte said costs were split among the candi-
dates, who each paid about $30. Although his party didn’t win seats, he said that compared to 
their limited resources, he was happy with the 
votes the candidates received. 
The reports were ﬁ  nalized Monday. UF Su-
pervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs said the reports 
were up to date as of Tuesday.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  A look at Spring 2017 ﬁ  nal SG campaign ﬁ  nance reports
SG SPRING 2017 
ELECTION FINANCIAL REPORTSThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsTrump’s address 
should be the norm 
On Tuesday night, President Donald Trump gave his 
first address to Congress. For one of the first times, our president sounded presidential. Reports from all across the media say this was the calmest and most professional our president has been since his inaugu-
ration. Some people are praising him for this. 
Now, we’re going to pause for a second here and just ask: 
Why are we praising a professional and calm attitude? Shouldn’t that be one of the first things we look for in a president? Some-one who is capable, collected and can address a feuding Con-gress in a steady manner? Not someone who makes headlines nearly every day for his incendiary Tweets and who posts late-night rants after “Saturday Night Live” pokes fun at him.
But all right. He was presidential. Perhaps he’s realized this 
job isn’t something he can take lightly. Perhaps he’s grown tired of being torn apart by social media. Perhaps he’s learned and is starting to grow as a person. Perhaps his public relations person told him to. Whatever it was, Mr. President, good for you. Thank you for taking your job seriously. We hope this trend continues for the next four years.
Trump also spoke out against the anti-Semitic threats and 
the shooting in Olathe, Kansas, last week. We had previously said we were frustrated by the president’s lack of response to 
the latter. There was still nothing about the acts of violence 
and vandalism against Islamic spaces, but hey, we’re already congratulating the man for not raising his voice, so we might as well pat him on the back when he does do something to deserve it. Perhaps he has realized that fear and division are no way to win back half the nation. Perhaps he’s realized he needs to work for harmony, as he addressed Congress, saying that he was there to “deliver a message of unity and strength.” 
Trump made some claims about health care, saying he 
would lower costs and make it more accessible, which demo-crats insisted they had already done. But nonetheless, they ap-plauded at his call to bring down the high price of drugs. There are now some specifics about his plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, in high contrast to Trump finding it “so complicated” earlier this week. Having a plan is a good thing.
There were these “high” points of the speech — “high” is 
in quotes because things like not raising one’s voice should be considered a given and not worthy of praise with any other 
president — but we cannot ignore the lows. The Washington 
Post fact-checked 13 of Trump’s claims. Two stuck out to us.
Trump claimed 94 million Americans are out of work. In ac-
tuality, it’s 7.6 million, or about 4.8 percent of the work force. The 94 million is if you include Americans of working age not actively looking for a job: students, retirees, stay-at-home par-ents, etc. This is one of those fact errors that just can’t be dis-puted — it’s a number that is documented, and you can’t spout out an “alternative fact” about the unemployment rate. 
Another claim he made was that illegal immigrants are more 
likely to be violent. But, there’s no basis for that, not even with the tragic story he brought up. Yes, violent crimes hap-pen, but illegal immigrants are no more likely to commit them than someone born and raised in the U.S. You can’t just pick a story from an old newspaper and dress it up to scare people, especially when the Congressional Research Service reports otherwise, and especially when you’ve been trying to claim unity and strength the whole evening.
Did Trump do a good job with this speech? Comparatively, 
to his past antics, yes. But let’s remember that being disciplined and professional, while striving to deliver a message of uni-ty and strength, should not be a surprise for the president. It should be an expectation.
 To rebuild the Democratic Party, go back to basics
The Democratic Party is in decay. It’s impos-sible to deny. But the decline didn’t start last November. It’s been a steady deteriora-tion since the resounding victories of 2008, which swept former President Barack 
Obama into office and took control of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Since then, it has slowly ceded power, losing the House in 2010 and Senate in 2014. The exclamation point was Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 presidential election. 
Many suggestions have been offered on how to 
rebuild the party. Some have proposed it’s best to push fur-ther left and become more progressive. This isn’t the answer. 
If democrats want any hope of stopping their backslide 
into political irrelevance, they need to reenergize the party from the ground up, focus on grass-roots movements and re-connect with voters who have become disillusioned with the often out-of-touch platforms of Obama’s party. Democratic losses in the federal government are staggering and well-doc-umented. In 2008, the party owned 57 seats in the Senate. In 2016, that number plummeted to 44. Similarly, after reach-ing a peak of 257 seats in the House in 2008, that number has now dwindled to 194. The party has also been reeling 
at the state level. In 2008, there were 28 Democratic gover-
nors. Now, there are only 16. Furthermore, democrats have relinquished 958 seats within state legislatures, according to The Washington Post. Much of these losses were masked by Obama’s popularity and reelection. However, these results are a direct repudiation of his party’s policies. Voter discon-tent is evident.
Democrats are split between leftists, who largely backed 
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign, and 
centrists, who mostly supported former Secretary of State 
Hillary Clinton. This clash recently crescendoed again after former Labor Secretary Tom Perez, backed by Obama and former Vice President Joe Biden, faced Sanders-backed Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., in the election for Democratic Nation-al Committee chair last weekend. Perez won, but his victory only affirmed the divide. The Democratic Party should have one goal: win back seats in 2018.Bickering over Perez’s victory by progressives 
needs to stop. The two candidates have some similarities, including backgrounds as civil rights attorneys. Perez began as a prosecutor for, and eventually headed, the Department of Justice’s 
Civil Rights Division. He fought cases from police 
discrimination to voter suppression. 
His victory presents democrats with a viable 
path to the 2018 midterm elections. And Perez’s appointment of Ellison as deputy DNC chair gives the shell-shocked DNC its best chance of unity. 
Democrats need to regain power before they can implement policies for social change. If they want to push to expand civ-il liberties, it is imperative to first connect with constituents 
and reaffirm their identity as a party for the working class. A 
single parent worried about making ends meet isn’t likely to care about where Caitlyn Jenner goes to the bathroom. Social issues are important, but they don’t win elections. 
Biden warned of the failure to appeal to blue-collar voters. 
This past election, a certain billionaire was remarkably able to position himself as the voice of the working class. It speaks volumes about the Democratic Party’s failure to touch base with the voters it claimed to be helping — the same ones it 
desperately needed. 
To improve, the DNC needs to concentrate its efforts on 
state-level movements that focus on these workers. “The 
Democratic Party needs to make house calls,” Perez told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. “One of the reasons we lost in places like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania is we’re not speaking to rural voters.” He’s right. Many of these people left to vote for third-party candidates. But they didn’t leave because the party isn’t liberal enough. They bolted be-
cause they felt the party wasn’t in tune with their struggles. 
Pushing heedlessly left without attempting to win them back only risks further alienation. Like Ellison stated after his de-feat, “(Democrats) don’t have the luxury to walk out of this room divided.”
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears on 
Thursdays. Alfredo Morales, a former Alligator sports writer, contributed to this week’s column.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORBrian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
UF alum to perform in T oronto comedy fest He started his comedy career in GNV, 
pg. 10THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Review: John Mayer releases new music
He returns after a four year hiatus, pg. 9By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Changeville 2017: Gainesville’s Social 
Change Festival, an immersive festival that 
kicked off in Gainesville in 2016, is set to re-
turn for a second year of music, comedy and 
more in the pursuit of social change. 
The event will take place today and Friday, 
with music, panels, comedy and even virtual 
reality experiences taking place throughout 
the day and ending at 1 a.m.
Events will be held at venues all over 
downtown Gainesville, including the High 
Dive, The Bull, the Hippodrome State The-atre, Bo Diddley Community Plaza and more. 
A multi-venue pass is $29, with tickets for single shows available as well. A portion of 
the sales will go back to WUFT Television Channel 5, UF’s Public Broadcasting Service 
TV station that aims at providing the commu-
nity with educational news. 
Headliners include Big Freedia, Talib Kwe-
li, Moon Hooch, David Bazan and more, all of whom are dedicated to some sort of cause in the realm of social change, from environmen-
talism to race issues. Kweli’s show, which will take place tonight on Bo Diddley Plaza and will feature Big Sam’s Funky Nation, will 
be the only free show of the weekend. 
The event comes at the tail end of Gaines-
ville’s annual frank conference, a gathering 
of professionals who use public-interest com-
munications in order to drive social change. 
Changeville incorporates the power of music 
and other forms of entertainment to pursue 
that goal, as well. 
Jennifer Vito, one of the co-executive di-
rectors of Changeville and a UF alumna, said the inspiration behind Changeville came from 
frank itself. 
“The frank gathering wanted to connect 
the bright minds from the conference with the work of social-change artists across many 
platforms and the Gainesville community,” 
she said. 
Changeville did just that in its ﬁ  rst year 
and has expanded to include different types 
of art in its second installment. 
Joel Ramos, the creative director of Chan-
geville and a UF public relations senior, said the biggest expansion Changeville made over 
the past year was incorporating more virtual 
reality experiences. This year’s Changeville will feature six virtual reality exhibits, in-
cluding the work of famous Baltimore-based 
street muralist Gaia, speciﬁ  cally his ﬁ  rst-ever 
virtual reality mural and various virtual real-ity ﬁ  lms. Ramos said Changeville will also feature a 
variety of local ﬁ  lms chosen through an appli-cation process. There will also be poetry and 
meditation events held for free Friday. 
Ramos was inspired to continue working 
with Changeville after he helped plan the in-augural event. Last year, Ramos said roles 
were less deﬁ  ned, and he was able to do a 
little bit of everything to see Changeville come 
to fruition. 
“Since it was the ﬁ  rst year, no one work-
ing on Changeville really knew what it would become until it happened right in front of our 
eyes,” the 23-year-old said, “and it was amaz-
ing. It was magical. I had never felt so accom-plished in my life. I knew I had to do it again.” Between bringing a variety of artists to-
gether and remembering the overall idea of social change, Ramos, Vito and the Chan-
geville team have put in a lot of work to bring 
Changeville together. The festival brings a lot 
of different concepts to the table, all with the greater goal of social change as their motiva-
tor. 
Music is one of the biggest vehicles of at-
taining this goal, Vito said. 
“I think music is one of the greatest con-
nectors of people and conductors of social change,” she said. “It brings people together 
and instantly sparks a feeling, a connection 
and an understanding — which is the founda-tion for driving change.”
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
This weekend, the Okeechobee 
Music and Arts Festival will 
take place at Sunshine Grove in Okeechobee, Florida. The event will be the festival’s second annual 
iteration, with performances start-
ing today at 4 p.m. and running until 6 a.m. Monday.
Okeechobee’s lineup features 
critically acclaimed artists like Kings of Leon, Usher and the Roots, Flume, Bassnectar, Sleigh Bells, Badbadnotgood and Mac Demarco. The festival also heavily features up-and-coming Florida-based artists like Merchandise and 
Jacuzzi Boys. With genres ranging 
from indie punk to classic funk to hip-hop to dance-oriented elec-tronica, there will be something for everyone at Okeechobee. 
“I’m especially excited to see 
Porter Robinson, the Lumineers, GRiZ and the Revivalists,” said Jesse Feinstein, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology junior. “Porter Rob-
inson put out one of my favorite EDM albums of all time in 2014 called ‘Worlds.’ I’m excited to see what his live show is like.”
In addition to ﬁ  ve stages fea-turing live music throughout the weekend, Okeechobee offers large-
scale art installations, a white sand 
beach on festival grounds, a Ferris wheel, numerous food trucks and workshops in yoga and medita-tion. 
Okeechobee also has a unique 
PoWoW! performance, in which several featured music artists from the festival take the stage and have 
a free jam.
“I’m really excited to see the 
PoWoW! this year,” Feinstein said. 
“This is when a bunch of different artists from all different genres have a huge jam session together. I missed it last year, it’s so hard to keep track of time when you’re in 
festival mode.”
Okeechobee, like other Ameri-
can music festivals such as Bonna-
roo or Coachella, encourages its patrons to camp on the festival grounds for the weekend. A big part of the event is creating its own world inside the festival gates so event goers can get an all-encom-
passing experience for the week-
end.  
“After going to the Okeechobee 
last year, I’m ready for another journey of self-growth through music, art and nature this year,” Feinstein said. “It’s going to be a really nice break from reality.” 
For those camping out at the 
festival, be warned, for there is limited cell phone service on the grounds, crowded charging sta-tions, porta-potties and showers that can range from $5 to $7. Still, this is what many festival goers consider to be the true festival ex-perience. 
“I honestly thought last year’s 
event was insanely well put to-gether,” said Paula Kaplan, a 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior. “I could do with cleaner porta-potties this year, though.”Changeville festival returns, pursues social change 
Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival brings big names 
LOCAL
MUSICCourtesy to the Alligator
Changeville 2017: Gainesville’s Social Change Festival, will return this weekend for its second year. It will take over 
downtown GNV today and tomorrow, with events at various venues including the High Dive, the Hippodrome and The Bull. 
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
I’ve seen the light, and it came in 
the form of a quick, delicious pie at 
the local favorite Satchel’s Pizza.
Gainesville residents take their 
pizza seriously, which I found out last 
week when I ranked the top ﬁ  ve piz-
za places in town and didn’t include Satchel’s. After hearing from many in the Satchel’s fanbase, I decided I needed to investigate. I hadn’t been there before, and I needed to see if all the hype was justiﬁ  ed. 
No matter what time of day you 
decide is right for a carb-induced 
coma, I learned the parking lot is 
bound to be full. The only hope is someone pulling out at the same mo-ment.
After securing a spot, I walked 
up to the entrance and requested a table outside. Waiting for the text that would let me know it was my turn was stomach-grumbling — I was 
ready to eat.
Less than 15 minutes later, I was at 
my table ordering a homemade soda. 
It was $3 with unlimited reﬁ  lls, and I was allowed to alternate ﬂ  avors? I’ll take the Lola cola, Ruby root beer and every other ﬂ  avor, please.
The ambiance of the restaurant 
added to the pizza, but honestly, 
it was good enough that they could 
serve it out of a hole-in-the-wall and still be the best.
Whether you decide to eat inside, 
outside or in the infamous bus, you’ll be greeted by trash.
Everywhere.The thing is, the trash is beautiful. 
Art, actually. A lot of what’s in and 
around the restaurant is up-cycled.
The garlands made of plastic caps somehow had a delicate, ﬂ  owing 
look.
The benches were reminiscent of 
UF’s cement slabs, except they were covered in tiny mosaic pieces or me-ticulously lined loose change.
In case you were wondering how 
many dollars are on that slab in the corner outside, the answer is $3.86. My waiter, Scott, knew this off the top of his head.
“Well, $3.86 the last time we 
counted,” Scott said. “Maybe a bit more now.”
When it came to ordering, I decid-
ed on the Mama: $19 for a medium pizza with four toppings. Deﬁ  nitely not bad considering the tastiness that ensued.
Ricotta, basil, roasted red peppers 
and Italian sausage ended up being 
my ﬁ  nal decision. It wasn’t easy to 
make, considering the more than 20 topping options on the menu.
Vegan friends, don’t despair, be-
cause Satchel’s has two vegan-cheese 
options for you.
Everyone around me seemed to be 
eating The Satch Salad in anticipation 
of their pie, so I decided to order a small, too. It was $8, so I was hoping it had something more than just red and green leaf lettuce — I was not let down.
It was the perfect size for a quick 
munch-down between two people.
The dressing was a yin-yang mix 
of sweet and tangy. The thin slices of apple sticking out made the perfect crunch when mixed in. The produce tasted fresh. No complaints.
Just as I ﬁ  nished the last of my 
salad, the pie made its appearance.
Fresh out of the oven, the pizza 
cook brought it over on an aluminum dish and placed it in the center of the table. Staring up at me was high calo-rie heaven.
The dough was clearly executed 
in-house — no ﬂ  at, freezer appear-ance to it. The crust of the pizza was ﬂ  aky and swelled up past the top-pings.
Oh, but the toppings? It looked like 
they’d found the perfect spot for every bit of ricotta, basil, roasted red pepper and Italian sausage on the thing.
The pie wasn’t only aesthetically 
pleasing, every bite tasted just as good as it looked.
After eating two slices, I was full 
beyond measure. I decided to order another glass of Lola cola while my leftovers were wrapped, because why not?
Satchel’s has everything the per-
fect pizza joint should have: unique-
ness, tastiness and a loyal clientele. 
I’ll deﬁ  nitely be back for seconds.
Eating my own words: Why Satchel’s is the real No. 1THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Before we had Ed Sheeran’s 
acoustics, James Bay’s raspy vocals 
or Shawn Mendes’ catchy lyrics, we had the smooth guitar stylings of John Mayer. With tunes like “Your 
Body is a Wonderland” and “Wait-
ing on the World to Change,” girls around the world swooned and sighed as Mayer picked his guitar with an effortless presence. 
After taking a four-year break 
from releasing new music, Mayer started debuting tracks from his new album, “The Search for Everything.” 
In January, Mayer released “Wave I” 
of the album — the ﬁ  rst of two four-track installments — which debuted on the Billboard’s Top 200 albums chart at No. 2. Then with “Wave II,” released Feb. 23, listeners were 
reminded why they originally fell in 
love with Mayer’s sound. 
Tracks from both waves feature 
classic elements of Mayer’s eclectic musical style that don’t quite ﬁ  t any genre. Old fans and new listeners alike can all ﬁ  nd something to bop their heads to in the album. With collaborations from the John Mayer 
Trio’s bassist, Pino Palladino, and 
drummer, Steve Jordan, the musi-cal components of each song ﬂ  ow seamlessly together from the open-ing words to the chorus and the slow fade at the end of the song. 
Despite the catchy sound and 
melodic tone of both waves, listen-ers also get a strong message in each song upon taking another listen. 
From the ﬁ  rst installment, listen-
ers were given the breakup album they didn’t realize they needed. Un-like other recently released breakup songs like “It Ain’t Me,” electronic dance music artist Kygo’s collabora-tion with Selena Gomez, listeners are intrigued by Mayer’s outlook on love and moving on.
“Still Feel Like Your Man,” which 
resembles a rhythm and blues tune, hits listeners with the reality of mov-ing on with the simple lyrics, “I still keep your shampoo in my shower, in case you want to wash your hair.”
Not only do the tracks remind 
listeners it is normal to grieve a lost relationship, but it reminds them moving on and changing as a person are important parts of life. “Moving on and Getting Over” and “Chang-
ing” almost offer advice on how to 
improve yourself after a breakup. 
Then tracks like “Love on the 
Weekend” and “Roll it on Home,” which sound like pop-infused coun-try songs, give listeners a lighter view of love. Another song, “Emoji of a Wave,” explains the struggle of two people loving each other but 
knowing the relationship isn’t going 
to work.
In a time where breakup songs 
seem redundant (I’m looking at you, Taylor Swift), Mayer’s approach to the subject seems almost like he’s of-fering listeners advice. The order of the tracklist helps listeners through each stage of a breakup or, at the very least, provides them with a catchy tune to listen to. 
“The Search for Everything” has 
shown listeners a softer side of a usually private singer, almost serv-ing as a storybook of his relationship 
blunders and experiences in love, 
and the record lives up to the title. The story will only continue with the release of the ﬁ  nal six tracks from the album, which comes out April 14. 
After four-year hiatus, John Mayer is back
MUSIC
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
By Rebecca Rubin 
Avenue Writer
Calvin Cole attributes his com-
edy roots to his alma mater, UF. 
On March 10 and 11, his sketch-
comedy group, Big Britches, will be 
one of more than 60 sketch-comedy acts from across North America who will perform at the Toronto Sketch Comedy Festival. The 12th annual sketch-comedy festival is a 12-day 
event that started Wednesday.
His college comedic career start-
ed with a stand-up performance 
during a protégé show for those 
who had never done stand-up be-
fore. His love for comedy contin-
ued to grow throughout his time in Gainesville and culminated his senior year when he was voted 
America’s Funniest College Student 
in 2010, representing UF in a na-
tional NCAA March Madness-style comedy tournament. 
In 2010, UF was one of the ﬁ  nal 
four teams at Rooftop Comedy’s Na-
tional College Comedy Competition, 
which started with 32 schools. The tournament was run completely on-line, where schools uploaded videos 
of their routines and participants 
could vote for their favorites. That year, the comedy team won 
the tournament, and Cole was nom-
inated MVP of his team. The ﬁ  nal 
four teams each sent their MVP to 
perform at the TBS Just For Laughs 
Chicago comedy festival, where 
Cole was awarded the top honor — America’s Funniest College Student.
“My comedy career is very much 
tied up in school,” Cole, 28, said.
At UF, Cole co-founded the Uni-
versity Stand-Up Comedy Club, which helps students develop their 
talent.  
It was there he met Tim Keck, 
who would soon become one of his 
closest friends. Keck was one of the three members who joined Cole at 
Rooftop Comedy’s National Col-
lege Comedy Competition in Aspen, 
Colorado. 
Upon ﬁ  rst interaction, Keck, a 
UF alumnus, described Cole as in-
timidating but incredibly helpful. 
“He really gave me a lot of ad-
vice on comedy and kind of took me 
under his wing,” Keck said. 
Keck explained Cole as a story-
teller. He said Cole likes taking the 
audience on a journey together. 
Keck, a freelance comedian in 
New York, said he likely wouldn’t 
be doing comedy at all without Cole’s help. 
“He was motivating me back 
then, and he’s still motivating me 
now by continuing to push himself, 
Keck said. “He’s really found his 
niche, and I appreciate that.” 
Cole moved to New York City af-
ter graduating in 2010 with a bach-
elor’s degree in English and focus in 
ﬁ  lm studies. There, he started en-
rolling in classes at the Upright Citi-
zens Brigade and met the members who would form his sketch comedy 
group, Big Britches. 
The comedy quartet consists of 
Cole, Emily Duncan, Jon Hudson 
and Kantad Svendsgaard. Though they don’t perform directly through 
UCB Comedy, their core training 
comes from the legendary improvi-
sational and sketch comedy group in New York City. 
Big Britches has done com-
edy together for a few years now. 
They previously hosted, produced, 
booked and performed a weekly improv show. When they’re not spending three to ﬁ  ve days a week 
rehearsing material for the upcom-
ing festival, they are focusing on 
putting together a play that will open in New York City. 
“Most of us have writing back-grounds as well, and we wanted to ﬂ  ex that muscle a little bit,” he said. 
The group’s sketch-writing pro-
cess starts with collaboration. The ﬁ  rst step is to pitch individual ideas. 
They give each other feedback on 
outlines and speciﬁ  c jokes, and then they separate to write the ﬁ  nished 
products. After they have a drafted 
sketch, members edit and polish 
each piece. Whoever mainly writes 
the sketch will typically cast it. 
After working together for so 
long, the group has developed a 
shared sense of humor, Cole said. 
They’re able to take their different perspectives on life and turn it into a sketch they know the rest of the 
group will ﬁ  nd funny. 
Cole said all of the members of 
Big Britches grew up watching and 
absorbing all forms of comedy. He said they have similar tastes in what 
they appreciate, which inﬂ  uences 
their writing. 
“You get that sense of what ev-
eryone else ﬁ  nds funny, and you 
end up playing to that because these 
are the people you end up hanging 
out with and you want to make 
them laugh,” he said. 
Performing is their favorite as-
pect, Cole said. The shows them-selves are what they look forward to most. 
This is their ﬁ  rst time at the 
Toronto Sketch Comedy Festival. Although they don’t know what to 
expect yet, heading to Canada for 
this show allows the troupe to meet people from all over North America 
who share a common passion, Cole 
said.
“Just being immersed in a com-
edy environment like that is really cool,” he said. 
Each member has a full-time job 
in addition to their work with the group. Cole is an operations man-ager at a stafﬁ  ng company.  
“That’s probably the least inter-
esting thing about me,” he said.
He also expanded his comedic 
platform with an iTunes podcast he recently started with his ﬁ  ance. The podcast, Cinestalgia, has come-
dic guests watch a movie from their 
childhood and then discuss it. 
This will be Big Britches’ second 
time performing in Canada. They 
participated in the Montreal Sketch 
Fest last year. 
“We’re excited about being in-
volved in something that’s so me-
ticulously run,” he said. “It should be exciting.”
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
If you haven’t been keeping up with the lat-
est music, you’ve come to the right place. The 
past two weeks have been stacked with releas-es. Get caught up with everything you should be listening to by checking out these projects:
Feb. 17 — Jidenna — ‘The Chief’A lot of people are sleeping on Jidenna’s al-
bum, and it pains me to realize it won’t get the recognition it deserves. Most people only know Jidenna as the guy who sings “Classic Man,” but this album shows just how much of an art-ist he actually is. Even I’ll admit I didn’t know Jidenna could rap and sing as well as he can. My favorite on “The Chief” is easily “Bambi.” It’s simply a beautiful song.
Feb. 17 — Future — ‘FUTURE’
A year has passed since Future released an 
album or mixtape, but he quickly made up for 
that time by dropping two albums in seven days. The ﬁ  rst of the two albums is the self-titled “FUTURE,” which is 17 songs in length and isn’t very different from Future’s other projects, but that’s not necessarily a bad thing. 
Future found his sound and ran with it. The 
ﬂ  ute alone on “Mask Off” makes this a dope album.
Feb. 24 — Future — ‘HNDRXX’Future has gone by several different names, 
with one of them being “Future Hendrix.” I say that because it’s fairly obvious the two al-bums Future dropped in a week’s time play off of that name. While “FUTURE” is more rap, 
“HNDRXX” is more singing. Before Future was 
spitting straight ﬁ  re on his tapes “Monster,” “Beast Mode” and “56 Nights,” Future made music that was a mixture of rap and auto-tuned rhythm and blues, which can be heard in songs like “Turn on the Lights.” Personally, I like “HNDRXX” more than “FUTURE,” but what I do know is that they’re both good albums that show Future is on pace to have two different No. 1 albums in two consecutive weeks.
Feb. 24 — Nav — ‘NAV’Nav is a rapper-producer out of Toronto 
who has been buzzing on SoundCloud for 
some time with multiple songs receiving more 
than 10 million streams. Nav gained a lot of at-tention when he was featured on Travis Scott’s “beibs in the trap.” Now signed to The Week-nd’s label, “XO,” Nav released his ﬁ  rst full proj-ect, “NAV,” last week. Honestly, almost all of his songs sound the same to me, but they’re still good, and I’d deﬁ  nitely consider myself a fan. Nav has never performed in concert, 
but you can see his ﬁ  rst-ever performance at 
Coachella this year.
Feb. 24 — Stormzy — ‘Gang Signs & 
Prayers’
Stormzy is one the most recognizable and 
best rappers coming out of the U.K., and he just released his debut album this past Friday. I’ll keep it short and tell you that the U.K. rap scene is quietly changing the rap game, and 
Stormzy is one of the frontrunners of this 
movement. Don’t sleep.
Bonus: Feb. 24 — Calvin Harris ft. Frank 
Ocean & Migos —  “Slide”
I couldn’t write this article without men-
tioning this incredible song. I was looking forward to this single ever since Calvin Harris ﬁ  rst teased it on his Snapchat a few weeks ago. Frank Ocean doesn’t do features for just any-
one, and getting Ocean on a song with Migos is 
a collaboration that doesn’t sound realistic. The transition from Ocean to Quavo on this song is ﬂ  awless, and Offset killing his verse makes “Slide” my favorite song of the year so far.UF alumnus to perform in Toronto Sketch Comedy Festival
Music Roundup: Nav, Future
LOCAL
MUSIC
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
The Gainesville Fine Arts Association will 
host its 10th annual Fine Arts Fair in Tioga Town Center this weekend, where residents can experience and celebrate Gainesville’s thriving art community. 
The three-day fair, which spans from Fri-
day to Sunday, will feature 120 artists, large public art sculptures and a unique blend of talented live music and entertainment.
Karen Koegel, the president of GFAA, 
said the venue at the Tioga Town Center is perfect for audiences to come up and down the street to see all the different art. 
“We have a great mix of artists from here 
and around Gainesville, as well as out of the state of Florida,” Koegel said. 
After throwing this event for a decade, 
Koegel said the fair continues to get better every year.
“We generally always get very positive 
feedback, and when it’s negative, we try to make the changes if they make sense,” Koe-gel said. “You know, an art fair is very difﬁ  -
cult to measure from a director’s standpoint. 
If you have good weather and good artists, you have to trust the audience that they’re going to come and buy enough to make the artists feel that it was worth it.”
Koegel, who stresses the importance and 
support the GFAA has for young artists, said the event includes a Kid Zone, where par-ents can bring their kids to do art and be a 
part of the fair, as well as two booths from 
the Alachua County Art School for student artists. According to the GFAA press release, 
the Kid Zone will feature a local student art show, ceramics for children to paint, Sun Country, S&H Iron Horse Express train, 02B Kids and more activities for kids to enjoy. 
For Koegel, a beginning artist herself, it 
was her drive to be around and learn from other artists that moved her to join the or-ganization, and it’s why she strives to show 
Gainesville’s youth the world of art. 
“The organization is composed of over 
300 members of artists from all different me-
diums who get the beneﬁ  t of a GFAA gallery for the ﬁ  rst time in 93 years,” Koegel said. “Last year was the ﬁ  rst time we ever had our own gallery.” 
Inspiring artists can go to the gallery, 
which is located at 1314 S. Main St., and ap-ply to be a part of the GFAA for $50 a year, Koegel said. 
While the GFAA has encouraged the cele-
bration and study of the arts since 1923, Koe-gel said more attention needs to be brought to Gainesville’s talented and prosperous art community. 
“There needs to be more uniﬁ  cation and 
more backing and support from the city,” she said. 
Koegel said the GFAA will continue to 
grow and strive to add more unique oppor-
tunities to the Gainesville gallery and start 
fundraising to expand their physical space. 
“Our organization was created for artists, 
and we create means for them to share and sell their art,” she said. 
The free event will start Friday from 5 
p.m. to 9 p.m. and will continue Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.  Tioga Town Center to host 
10th annual Fine Arts Fair
ARTTHURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-22BR/1BA Parquet floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceil-ing fans. Like new Kit appliances. Cent. H/A. Wash&Dryer Internet/Cable available. On 
bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-
423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    3-2-
17-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Bleach container
4 Shed door
attachments
9 Like iceberg
lettuce
14 Freudian topic15 Marginally ahead16 Relative of
bongos
17 Queen’s domain19 Cause of a skid,
perhaps
20 Tom Jones’ “__ a
Lady”
21 Payroll service co.23 __-à-porter:
ready-to-wear
24 Keep from
happening
26 Queen’s domain28 Corporate big
shots
29 With false
modesty
31 Bubbly opener?32 Hide from a
hunter
33 Coppertone’s 30,
e.g.
34 Bit of IM mirth
36 Queen’s domain
40 Versailles
monarch
41 West __: high-
end furnitureretailer
42 Related45 Actress Arthur48 Slyly disparaging50 Back of a single51 Queen’s domain53 Picked up54 De Matteo of
“Sons ofAnarchy”
55 One in favor
57 Baseball analyst
Hershiser
58 Odyssey on the
road
60 Queen’s domain
64 Of yesteryear65 Keep down
66 Writer who
inspired theRaven Award
67 Pineal or pituitary68 Chef’s creation69 Soufflé needDOWN
1 39th pres.
2 “Bummer”3 Runs amok
4 Uncouth types, in
Canadian slang
5 Severe anxiety
6 Yellow __7 Adidas rival8 Left in the dust9 Nos. that are
beside the point
10 Actor Fiennes11 It’s across the
Pyrenees from
France
12 Tailor’s 
measure
13 Auction spiel
18 Destroy22 New York suburb
bordering NewRochelle
24 Recipe amt.25 Tinge27 Once-over giver29 USCG rank30 Took out33 Gossip35 Santa portrayer
in “Elf”37 Alguna __:
something, in
Spain
38 Cavs, on a
scoreboard
39 White way43 Chem class suffix
44 “Game of Thrones”
patriarch Stark
45 Covers stealer46 Join the club
47 Guide for a chair49 High standards50 Scold52 Weighted down
53 __ boom
56 Met delivery
59 “Then what
happened?”
61 Critter on the
Australian 50-cent coin
62 Machine part63 Beer source
By Kevin Christian©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/02/1703/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 14 Help Wanted 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Thanks to some timely blocks 
from Tyshara Fleming, UF's women's basketball team advanced to the second round of the SEC T ournament. Read the story, pg. 15 McElwain celebrates birthday with basketball
For Florida football coach Jim McElwain's 55th birthday, Albert — Florida's 
mascot — gave him a peanut butter-and-jelly sandwich with a candle to blow 
out at UF's men's basketball game on Wednesday. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Kasey Hill stepped into the shot 
with confidence.
With an Arkansas defender fly-
ing out to greet him, Hill launched 
a high-arching three-pointer from 
the top of the key.
It found the bottom of the net, 
giving the Gators a commanding 
lead with just over three minutes 
left in the game.“They were going under all 
night,” he said. “I just stopped be-
hind and shot it with confidence, and it went in.”
Hill scored 12 points and had 
four assists on the night, as No. 12 Florida (24-6, 14-3 SEC) defeated 
the Razorbacks 78-65 on Wednes-
day night in the O’Connell Center.
After four long years, it was 
Hill’s final game in the O’Dome.
On Senior Night, the Gators 
started all four of their seniors for the final home game of the season. Graduate transfer Canyon Bar-
ry scored five of UF’s first seven points.
Justin Leon scored on a wide-
open layup. Hill swept in a reverse layup. 
And finally, Schuyler Rimmer 
scored his first and only points about four minutes into the game, hitting a right-handed hook shot over the SEC’s top shot blocker, Moses Kingsley, capping off a 14-6 run for UF. The bucket ensured every senior scored at least once.
“Those guys are deserving,” 
UF coach Mike White said of the 
group. “They’re four good play-
ers. They’ve been a huge part, ob-viously, of re-creating a winning culture here.”
Florida was active on both side 
of the court to start the game, holding Arkansas (22-8, 11-6 SEC) to 34.5-percent shooting in the opening half, while shooting 
a blistering 56.7 percent from the 
floor itself.
A pull-up three by sophomore 
KeVaughn Allen gave the Gators their biggest lead of the night at 32-17.
Behind guards Dusty Hannahs 
and Jaylen Barford, however, the Razorbacks cut into Florida’s once 
large lead.
Barford led all scorers with 18 
points and Hannahs nailed a trio 
of three-pointers en route to 13 points.
Arkansas first cut UF’s lead 
to single digits about six minutes into the second half, but Allen an-swered with a tough layup — his 
only bucket of the second half.
Allen went down on the play 
and struggled to put weight on 
his left leg as he hobbled to the bench. He returned a few minutes later, though.
He scored 12 points on 5-for-6 
shooting.
As the final half continued to 
dwindle away, the Razorbacks continued to fight back.
Then Keith Stone came alive.The redshirt freshman scored 
eight points and grabbed three UF handles Hogs on Senior Day
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill attempts a layup during Florida's win over Arkansas on 
Wednesday in the O'Connell Center. 
 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
While Schuyler Rimmer’s first start for Flor-
ida seemed surreal, the elbow to the face from 
Arkansas’ Moses Kingsley was unmistakably authentic. 
Trying to draw a charge, Rimmer hit the floor and the referees reviewed the play. 
“When they went to the monitor, I thought 
maybe they were gonna call a foul on me or something,” Rimmer said. 
But he didn’t have to worry. The referees 
called an offensive foul on Kingsley. 
“He’s hard to stop,” Rimmer said. “So I think 
that was probably the best possible outcome.”Rimmer hasn’t played much. The 6-foot-10 
center has spent more than 90 percent of the season glued to the bench. 
But Wednesday night was Senior Night. And seniors start on Senior Night. 
So after watching his first 54 games as a 
Gator tip off from the sideline, Rimmer was out 
at center court on Wednesday, lined up against Kingsley for the jump ball. 
After losing the opening tip, UF conceded the 
game’s first points.
“I started every single game in high school, 
and I won a lot of those jump balls,” Rimmer said. “But it’s been a while.”
Arkansas had a 4-2 lead when Rimmer did After two years on the bench, Rimmer relishes first start at FloridaBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Eli Putnam put metal to 
leather, smacking a drive over UF 
centerfielder Nick Horvath. 
Horvath ran toward the ball, 
but after an awkward carom, it ended up in the hands of Ryan Larson. He fired toward the infield, 
but by then, he had no play. 
Putnam was clapping on third 
base — his pants still clean — after 
a stand-up triple to open the game for UCF.
The next batter for the Knights 
was centerfielder Luke Hamblin, who tapped a grounder up the middle toward Florida second 
baseman Deacon Liput. The 
sophomore couldn’t make the play. Hamblin was safe, Putnam scored, and from there, the Knights poured it on. 
Playing in Orlando on 
Wednesday night, UCF exploded on an ineffective Gators pitching 
staff and limited an anemic Florida 
offense, taking the game 11-2 and splitting the two-game series.
“Quite frankly, it was probably 
one of the worst games that we’ve played since we’ve been here,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release. “I will say this: It’s the best thing that could have happened to 
us at this point. It gives us a chance 
to reevaluate some guys, maybe catch some guys' attention."
Florida starter Michael Byrne 
entered the game boasting a team-best ERA of zero in 11 innings pitched. But against the Knights (8-1), the sophomore fireballer served up three earned runs in 
three innings of work, swelling his 
ERA to 1.93. In relief or Byrne, the Gators 
(7-2) brought on a trio of freshmen that didn’t fare much better. 
Tyler Dyson logged two innings 
and gave up one run, Nick Long also logged two innings but gave up five runs, and Cole Maye finished the game for Florida with a scoreless eighth. 
Florida’s defense also struggled, 
with three players committing errors. The Gators entered the game with an SEC-best fielding 
percentage of 0.985.
“We tried some different things 
defensively,” O’Sullivan said, “put 
Mike (Rivera) over there at first. It didn’t quite work out tonight."
But Florida’s greatest struggles 
came on offense, where it mustered six hits and left five on base. Nobody on the team managed 
more than one hit, while outfielder 
Blake Reese picked up the team’s only RBI on a groundout. 
Offensive struggles have 
been common for the team to 
start the 2017 season. Entering 
Wednesday’s game against UCF, the Gators ranked second to last in the SEC in batting average, slugging 
percentage, on-base percentage 
and RBIs. They were also dead last in runs and hits, which are trends O’Sullivan is hoping to fix before the Gators return home for a three-
game series against Columbia on 
Friday night at 6:30, along with another problem. 
“The more glaring issue 
we have right now,” he said, “obviously we’ve got to get going offensively, but the body language tonight was terrible." 
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.orgPitching staff betrays 
Gators in loss at UCF
SEE RIMMER,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Senior center Tyshara Fleming has ac-
crued a lot of nicknames during her career 
at Florida.
Most teammates and coaches call her 
“Ty,” a simple abbreviation for her ﬁ  rst name. Others were more creative and dubbed her “The Silent Assassin” for her quiet and unassuming nature. 
Fellow senior Ronni Williams even 
refers to Fleming as her “twin,” as both players are always “on the same page.”
But if there was one nickname that 
rang true for her on Wednesday after-
noon, it was “Ty Swatter.”
With UF looking to keep its season 
alive against Arkansas in the ﬁ  rst round of 
the SEC Tournament, Fleming tied a ca-reer high with ﬁ  ve blocked shots as well as nine rebounds and two steals.
The 6-foot-4 post player’s disruptive 
interior presence helped limit the Razor-backs to 34.7 percent shooting from the ﬁ  eld and led the Gators to a plus-18 re-bounding differential, ultimately mak-ing the difference in a 71-61 victory for Florida.Along with Fleming’s tone-setting 
defensive performance, UF also re-ceived impressive outings from Wil-liams and junior guard Dyandria An-derson.
Williams led the Gators in scoring 
with 23 points on 8-of-16 shooting from the ﬂ  oor to go along with 12 rebounds, two assists and two steals. Anderson stuffed the stat sheet as well, notching 19 points, nine rebounds, ﬁ  ve assists, three steals and two blocks.
After an evenly contested opening 
half that saw Florida and Arkansas enter the intermission tied 29-29, UF’s 
stout defensive play took over in the 
third quarter.
The Gators held the Razorbacks to 
33 percent shooting, forced eight turn-overs and blocked four shots in the period.
Multiple jumpers from Williams and 
Anderson as well as trips to the free-throw line for Fleming and guard Deli-
cia Washington propelled UF on a 19-2 
run near the end of the frame, giving it a 52-37 lead.
UF’s third quarter outburst was ulti-
mately too much for Arkansas to over-come in the ﬁ  nal 10 minutes of action.
The Gators blocked three more shots 
and corralled four offensive rebounds in the game’s ﬁ  nal period, sealing the victory and advancing to the next stage of the bracket.
Wednesday’s ﬁ  rst round matchup 
against Arkansas at the Bon Secours Wellness Arena in Greenville, South Carolina, ends a two-game losing streak for Florida at the SEC Tourna-ment.
Entering the season, UF hadn’t won 
in the conference postseason since March 6, 2014, when it defeated Missis-
sippi State 71-67 in the second round.
Now, the Gators have an opportu-
nity to win two games in the SEC Tour-
nament for the ﬁ  rst time in over two decades. Florida’s next matchup comes tonight at 8:30 p.m. against Texas A&M in the second round.
UF is 0-2 this season against the 
Aggies, losing 67-59 on Jan. 15 in 
Gainesville and 84-76 on Feb. 2 in Col-
lege Station.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org UF advances in ﬁ  rst round of SEC tourney  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Tyshara Fleming attempts a layup during Florida’s 84-
75 loss to T ennessee on Jan. 26. Fleming blocked ﬁ  ve shots in UF’s ﬁ  rst-round win in the SEC T ournament. something he hadn’t done yet in 2017: earn an as-
sist. 
Rimmer found an open Justin Leon under the 
basket for a layup, giving Rimmer his ﬁ  rst assist since Dec. 21 — his ﬁ  rst game in the renovated 
O’Connell center. 
In his last game in the arena, it was his assist 
that tied the score for the last time. 
No. 12 Florida never gave up the lead for the 
remaining 38 minutes after Rimmer’s assist, win-
ning 78-65. But that wasn’t Rimmer’s biggest play of the night. 
The Gators made an effort at the start of the 
game to have all four seniors score before coming off the ﬂ  oor. 
First it was Canyon Barry. Then it was Leon. 
Then it was Kasey Hill. 
Only Rimmer remained. And while the other 
three seniors are some of the team’s top scorers, putting Rimmer in the box score was going to be a challenge. 
Not that Rimmer never scores. He’s tallied 26 
points on the season. 
But on Wednesday, Rimmer was matched up 
with Kingsley. The senior didn’t realize he was go-ing up against the SEC’s best shot blocker. 
Florida led 12-6 when Barry cut along the base-
line with the ball, freeing Rimmer up under the basket. 
Barry passed to Rimmer. Kingsley planted him-self between the Orlando native and the rim.
“He’s an athletic guy, really long arms, so I 
didn’t wanna try to go over him or through him,” Rimmer said.
So Rimmer maneuvered around him and 
ﬂ  ipped up a jump hook. Two points. 
“Thankfully it went in,” he said. Rimmer said he didn’t have expectations for 
how long he'd play, but ﬁ  nished with 10 minutes. 
“I think coach White trusts me enough to keep 
me in there for a minute or two,” he said.  
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2017
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
NO, THIS IS PATRICK
Years ago, I remember chasing foul 
balls off the bat of Chris Duncan at Roger Dean Stadium in Jupiter, Florida. 
That’s honestly all I remember 
about the former Class-A Palm Beach Cardi-
nal, who went on to have very brief success 
with the St. Louis Cardinals in the mid-2000s. 
He was big. He was a lefty. And every at-bat, he was good for shooting 
one or two foul balls down the left ﬁ  eld line — a product of a massive, late swing. 
That’s Tim Tebow’s ceiling. Yes, it’s time to once again revisit the 
Tebow hype train. You’ve either been on board since his days at Florida, proudly pro-claiming your hero can achieve anything he sets his mind to, or never bought a ticket in the ﬁ  rst place. 
You might’ve guessed I fall 
into the latter category.
Tebow took the ﬁ  eld in Port 
St. Lucie, Florida, on Monday for his ﬁ  rst taste of Spring Training with the New York Mets. 
He ran. He threw. He ﬁ  elded. And he hit, blasting nine 
home runs in four rounds of bat-ting practice before signing autographs for waves of his dedicated disciples. 
Quick, give him his own locker in Citi 
Field. Better yet, just rename the whole fran-chise the New York Tebows. 
But seriously, this is all preposterous. It was preposterous when the Mets signed 
Tebow to a minor league deal in September and it still is. 
I mean, the guy was a 29-year-
old TV analyst, Heisman winner and former pro football player that hadn’t played organized 
baseball since high school. 
And it showed. 
Tebow hit an astonishing .194 
and struck out 20 times in 62 at-bats in the Arizona Fall League last year. Though in his defense, 
that wasn’t even the worst average on his team. A handful of other Scottsdale Scorpions somehow hit worse. 
To be honest, that’s better than I expected 
out of the bulky 6-foot-3, 255-pound outﬁ  eld-er. 
At his press conference (yes, a Spring 
Training press conference!), Tebow said he wasn’t concerned with all the media attention he’s received since his most recent endeavor. 
“I just want to be able to continue the 
process, enjoy the process, enjoy every day, get to know my teammates and have fun out 
there,” he told MLB.com. 
What Tebow doesn’t understand is he’s 
making a mockery of that process. 
Spring Training, normally used for athletes 
to work their way back into baseball shape 
and prepare for the daily grind of a regular season, has been spoofed by a player who doesn’t belong in the sport.
Maybe I’m wrong. 
Maybe Tebow will ﬂ  ip a switch, make the 
adjustments and hit .300 at every level. 
Maybe pigs will ﬂ  y, too.
But it’s time for Tebow to put this dream, 
or nightmare, to bed. 
 Please, for the sanctity of the game: End this circus-like dream, Tebow
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
RIMMER,  from pg14Rimmer took longest to score among Florida's seniors
crucial rebounds in nine minutes of action. A corner three-pointer by Stone gave UF a 64-53 lead with under six minutes to play.
“He was playing like the way 
he was earlier in the season,” Hill said of Stone. “(He) got his conﬁ  -dence back.
“We’re gonna need him to keep 
playing like that.”
Despite the bounce-back win, 
however, White said his team has to move forward. UF takes on the Commodores in its ﬁ  nal game of 
the regular season on Saturday.
White celebrates his birthday 
on Thursday, but he said he won’t 
actually be celebrating.
“(I’ll) probably be stressing 
about Vanderbilt,” he said.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org  BASKETBALL,  from pg14UF plays 
Vanderbilt 
on Saturday
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Schuyler Rimmer attempts a hook shot during Florida's win over Arkansas on Wednesday. 
He scored two points in the win. 