We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators leave S. Carolina with 
ﬁ  fth straight loss
With its bowl-game hopes all but dashed, the Florida football team has little left to play for , pg. 14Veterans protest for medical marijuana
A casket ﬁ  lled with pill bottles represented opioid deaths, pg. 4
UF Housing directors’ accused fraud totals $470K
Five housing ofﬁ  cials have been ﬁ  red, pg. 5
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 34
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
After being born in a Syrian refugee camp 
with an upper limb birth defect, 10-year-old Mohammed received a new hand Sunday.
Mohammed got two free prosthetic hands 
from the groups UF Generational Relief in Prosthetics, also known as GRiP, and Gators for Refugee Medical Relief. Seven students de-livered the hands to Mohammed in Jackson-ville.
Mohammed, whose last name is withheld 
for medical privacy reasons, got a main pros-thetic with a Spider-Man design, his favorite superhero, and another as a back-up, said Rani Mahmoudi, a UF biomedical engineering ju-nior. Mohammed didn’t know he’d be receiv-ing the prosthetic Sunday.“He’s been telling all his friends that he’s 
excited for the hand,” the 20-year-old said. “There is a lot of conﬁ  dence issues that come from having a deformity, and I feel that having his own prosthetic is really going to boost his conﬁ  dence a lot.”
Mahmoudi met Mohammed during sum-
mer while tutoring him in English. Mohammed moved to the U.S. about a year ago, he said.
“He’s a very fun kid,” Mahmoudi said. “He loves playing soccer, and he actually wants to be an engineer.”
With each measurement for his prosthetic, 
Mahmoudi said they took the opportunity to teach him about engineering. GRiP designed the prosthetics over the course of more than two months, he said.
“We would explain to him what each mea-
Students create and give prosthetic hand to Syrian refugee
SEE REFUGEE,  PAGE 8MEN’S BASKETBALL SEASON 
STARTS TONIGHT AT 7 
VS. GARDNER-WEBB.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Chris Chiozza waited for the inbound 
pass. The Gators trailed Wisconsin by two points in overtime of the Sweet 16 in the 
NCAA Tournament. Four seconds remained as Florida’s odds of advancing to the Elite 
Eight dwindled. But none of that mattered 
as the Gators’ 6-foot guard received the pass and sprinted down the court.
As he got in range, Chiozza picked up his 
dribble behind the three-point arc and re-leased a ﬂ  oater as time expired. The sound of a swish cemented one of the most memo-rable plays in Gators sports history.
“I don’t know how it happened,” Chi-
ozza said. “I just know it went in.”
And while they lost in the Elite Eight, the 
Gators didn’t give up on their NCAA Tour-nament goals. Florida’s road back starts to-night when it kicks off the season against 
Gardner-Webb at 7 p.m.The Associated Press
Gators point guard Chris Chiozza sent Florida to the Elite Eight with a game-winning buzzer beater last season against Wisconsin. Now, 
Chiozza is back for his senior season as he and the rest of Florida’s men’s basketball team hope to contend in the NCAA T ournament.ARTISTS COMPETED FOR
 A TOTAL OF $20,000 IN 
CASH PRIZES.
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jacob Ascher, a 12-year-old artist, 
used his tie-dyed colored pencil box 
to store his cash.
He said he did not realize he would 
sell as many of his art pieces, which 
were of dinosaurs and American land-marks, as he did at the Downtown Festival & Art Show on Saturday and Sunday.
“I’m more of an artist than a sales-
man,” Jacob said.
He was one of 240 artists at the 
downtown festival who displayed 
their works for about 90,000 attend-
ees, said Sunshine “Sunny” Andrei, the event coordinator. The event kicked off with a free Downtown Blues Concert Friday night. On Sat-urday and Sunday, parts of Northeast First Street, Southeast First Avenue, West University Avenue and South-
east Second Place were closed off for 
art and food vendors. Andrei said the event was aimed at showcasing the cultural diversity of the city.
“We want to increase the public’s 
knowledge of organizations to show what’s here in Gainesville,” she said.
The festival also featured four 
stages and multiple street performers. Greenwood Morris dancers, dressed 
in traditional folk costumes, danced 
down Southeast First Street to upbeat Gainesville 
hosts 36th 
downtown 
art show
SEE FESTIVAL,  PAGE 8 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 14 HERE WE G     AGAIN 
Chiozza, Gators ready to replicate March run
ing the prosthetic Sunday.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
HIGH  79° LOW  53°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Apply well before the dead-
line to ensure the federal pro-
cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-
sistance with completing your 
FAFSA, visitfafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid advis-er at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Beat FSU: Beat Hunger Food 
DriveUF is going head-to-head with Florida State University to see which university can collect the most food donations. Student Government’s Greek Affairs and 
Finance and Affordability cabi-
nets are partnering with the Field and Fork Pantry for the Beat FSU: Beat Hunger Food Drive, which will be collecting dona-tions until Friday. Donations can be dropped off at the SG table in front of the Field and Fork Pantry on Tuesday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. For a list of items most valuable to those seeking assistance, visit 
pantry.fieldandfork.ufl.edu/do-
nate/wishlist/. If you have ques-tions or are interested in getting involved, email greekaffairs@sg.ufl.edu. 
International animal research 
panelFor International Education 
Week at UF, the Feed the Future 
Innovation Lab for Livestock Systems is holding a free event to connect with one of UF’s larg-est and most global projects. The event, called “Expanding UF’s Horizons to Improve Nutrition in Asia and Africa,” will consist of 22 research projects from eight 
countries. Hear from some of the 
team leaders based at UF and learn about the research that in-tends to improve the lives of the poor Tuesday from 8:30 a.m. to 10 a.m. at the Hub’s International Center. Breakfast will be provid-ed. For more information, visit livestocklab.ifas.ufl.edu/.
SG’s State of the Campus Address
Student Government’s State of the Campus Address will be given by Student Body President Smith Meyers on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the University Auditorium. Smith will review what SG has accomplished so far in Fall and what initiatives SG will continue pursuing throughout Spring. Additionally, students can learn 
what each SG agency has been 
working on at the SG Agency Expo beginning at 6:30 p.m. out-side of the Auditorium. There will be a food and clothing drive in preparation for the Thanksgiving holiday as well.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 34
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
By Anna Cappelli 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dave Clark, a UF professor, has been work-
ing to save the sweet basil plant from a danger-
ous pathogen for the past three years. 
The pathogen, called basil downy mildew, 
was accidentally imported into the U.S. five 
years ago and has been spreading throughout 
the crop ever since, Clark said. It was difficult to manage the plants without pesticides, mak-ing organic basil near impossible to produce, he said.
“Since basil is the most popular herb used 
in America and many parts of the world, the impact has been huge,” Clark, a professor of horticultural breeding and biotechnology, said. 
To keep the basil plant alive, Clark and other 
researchers collected all related basil species they could find and screened them for resis-tance to basil downy mildew. They found one resistant plant that could be cross-bred with the common sweet basil to make new, stronger hy-brids. 
Unfortunately, that crossbred species had a 
bad taste, said Clark, so even after they found 
the strong plant, Clark kept working to make a 
new basil hybrid with good flavor. 
After three years of work, he said he finally 
created a new hybrid that is resistant to the dis-ease, grows better than normal sweet basil and tastes the same.
In Clark’s class, Plants, Gardening, and You 
on Nov. 2, he handed out the hybrid potted basil plant and asked his students to submit a name, said Matthew Mellies, a 19-year-old UF statistics sophomore.
He suggested the name “Leia’s Basil,” named 
for the “Star Wars” character Princess Leia who led the resistance. 
“This breed of basil is extremely resistant, 
hence the pun,” he said. “I’m jealous of the 
lucky person that gets to actually put a name 
on it.”
Clark said even though he does not care 
what the plant’s name is, his suggestion had the most votes in the class. 
“The most important thing is that we end up 
with a name that can be trademarked without problems and is catchy enough to make people want to buy the plant,” Clark said. 
Chloee Collins, a UF botany junior, has been 
working in Clark’s lab for about a year and a half and began working on the basil project at the beginning of this summer, she said. 
She said she appreciates the potential impact 
the project could have on the culinary and hor-ticultural world.
“Think about all of the dishes that contain 
basil, it’s one of the most loved culinary herbs,” 
Collins said. “The widespread infection of 
downy mildew is impacting the basil market in a serious way.”
Collins said it’s meaningful to work on a 
project with a potential national and worldwide impact. 
“The basil project is an important one, and 
I feel fortunate to be able to work under Dr. Clark’s expertise to learn and make the best 
plants possible.” UF professor works to save 
basil plant from diseaseTHE GROUP CARRIED A 
CASKET FULL OF 
PILL BOTTLES ACROSS 
ARCHER ROAD.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For more than two years, U.S. 
Navy veteran Gabriel George wasn’t 
in control. 
A motorcycle accident in 2009 
left George in a coma for three 
weeks, with a paralyzed right arm 
and two fractures to his neck verte-
brae. Through 2011, he tried every-
thing from Percocet and morphine to spinal cord stimulators. It wasn’t until his doctor recommended med-
ical marijuana the 31-year-old said 
he felt like himself again. 
“I was on every pill they could 
prescribe me, all it did was zombify me or constipate me,” he said. “I’m 
here now, I’m alive because I’m a 
medical marijuana user.” 
George and five others spent 
Veterans Day protesting outside the Malcom Randall VA Medical 
Center, located at 1601 SW Archer 
Road, fighting opioid deaths and in 
support of medical marijuana for 
veterans.
The veterans marched across the 
intersection of Southwest Archer 
Road and Center Drive carrying a 
casket draped in an American flag. At the front lawn outside the hospi-tal, the group then folded the flag and poured hundreds of empty pill bottles inside the open casket. 
Joshua Littrell, a protest organiz-
er and the founder of the nonprofit Veterans for Cannabis, said the 
demonstration was meant to show 
how deadly opioids are. 
With grief in his eyes, Littrell 
called for a moment of silence. 
“Each one of these bottles is a 
brother and sister no longer with us,” the 37-year-old U.S. Air Force veteran said. “Each one of these here is a life.”
Gathered at the side of the cas-
ket, as cars on Southwest Archer Road honked in support of the group’s signs that read “Pills Kill, Cannabis Saves Lives,” the veterans shared their stories. 
Michael Thompson held his wife 
DeAnn’s hand and fought back tears. 
It was Oct. 10, 2008, when 
Thompson’s daughter, Cheyenne, passed away from grand mal sei-
zure. She was a month shy of her 
third birthday. Shortly afterward, 
the U.S. Air Force veteran turned to alcohol and tried to take his own life. 
He eventually turned to marijua-
na to treat the emotional trauma he felt and later learned the drug might have helped Cheyenne’s genetic predisposition to seizures. 
“The only thing that mattered to 
me in the world was my daughter, and I couldn’t fix her,” he said. “My daughter could still be alive today, if she had access to cannabis.” 
For U.S. Army veteran Jimmy Johnston, access to marijuana is the 
difference between life and death. 
Johnston, a lead coordinator for 
pro-marijuana and veteran support 
group Weed for Warriors, said he’s 
seen veterans wait as long as two 
and a half years for an MRI scan, 
get hooked on pills and then turn to cheaper street drugs like heroin when they can’t afford what the VA prescribes. 
So much of the pain, addiction 
and overdose could be solved with medical cannabis, he said.  
“One plant to treat it all,” he 
said. “Instead of the 20 different medications the VA is trying to pre-scribe you, you got one plant that will solve all of it with no side ef-fects.” 
Littrell, who served as an army 
biomedical engineer, said he plans to take Veterans for Cannabis’ plat-form to Washington, D.C., to urge Florida and Georgia representatives 
to grant veterans greater access to 
medical cannabis. 
Any demonstration he organizes, 
be it a protest or lobbying effort in 
Tallahassee, he wears a suit and tie 
and never says “marijuana,” only 
cannabis. Otherwise, no one would 
take his group seriously, he said. 
“I thought my fighting days were 
over when I got out of the Army,” 
Littrell said. “They’re not. Now I’m 
fighting for my brothers and sisters 
here at home, to make sure we’re getting the care we’re owed.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgPro-cannabis veterans protest opioids outside VA hospital 
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
Veterans for Cannabis founder Joshua Littrell speaks about opioid deaths among veterans Saturday outside the Malcom Randall VA Medical Center, located at 1601 SW Archer Road. Littrell and four other veterans protested by filling a casket with empty prescription pill bottles. “Each one of these bottles is a brother and sister no longer with us, ” he said. 
HE HAS PLANNED A MARCH 
SATURDAY TO PROTEST THE ST. 
AUGUSTINE MONUMENTS.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
While Gainesville quietly removed 
one downtown Confederate monument 
in August, UF hasn’t evicted one that 
stands on a property they manage in St. 
Augustine.
Rev. Ron Rawls, the pastor of St. Paul 
AME Church in St. Augustine, is calling for the removal of two Confederate obe-lisks located in the Plaza de la Consti-tucion. 
“When people are honest about Con-
federacy and what those symbols mean, I think it’s inappropriate to revere those symbols in public spaces,” Rawls said. 
One lies on city property, while the 
other is on property managed by UF, said UF spokesperson Janine Sikes. The obelisk on UF’s property was erected by the United Daughters of the Confederacy in 1920 in remembrance of Confederate Gen. William Wing Loring. 
Sikes said the decision to remove this 
monument is complicated because there are remains under it.UF’s Historic St. Augustine Board will 
be creating a committee to discuss what to do — if anything — with the monu-ment. Sikes said she doesn’t know when 
a decision will be reached. 
Rawls was disappointed with the 
lack of response from UF. He said after 
reaching out to UF multiple times, the 
university never responded to him. As 
a UF alumnus, Rawls feels it reflected negatively on UF President Kent Fuchs. 
“It diminishes my respect for him as 
it relates to racial matters,” Rawls said. 
Now, Rawls has planned a “Let’s Go 
Treading” march for the removal of the monuments from St. Paul AME Church to the Plaza de la Constitucion at 5 p.m. 
Saturday. 
Reagan Zutell, a UF biology sopho-
more, said she isn’t offended by the 
monument because it represents a way of life that was normal for people at one 
time. The 20-year-old is against erecting 
new Confederate memorials but thinks it’s unnecessary to remove existing ones.
“Taking down old statues is kind of 
like, ‘Shouldn’t we just move on from it?’” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgPastor calls for UF to remove 
Confederate monumentBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Two more arrests have been made in the 
UF Housing and Residence Education scandal 
now totaling more than $470,000 in alleged credit card fraud.
Azfar Mian, UF’s former 
senior housing director, and Stina Schoneck, the former housing ﬁ  nance director, 
were arrested Wednesday after UF auditors accused the pair of embezzling nearly half a million dollars using a Campus USA Credit Union account, according 
to a University Police sworn complaint.
Mian, 41, was originally 
arrested Sept. 18 and sub-sequently ﬁ  red after audi-tors accused him of spend-ing more than $180,000 in university funds, mostly through his UF-issued cred-it card, since January 2016, according to Al-ligator archives.
Five other Housing ofﬁ  cials, including 
Schoneck, 38, who worked under Mian’s su-pervision were placed on leave and suspected to be involved.
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Internal Audit, which has 
been investigating Mian since April, found in September he fraudulently furnished his home, paid his electric bill and bought miscel-laneous goods, like TVs and lunch meals, with UF funds.
On Nov. 6, auditors met with police and de-
scribed how Mian and Schoneck both opened a Credit Union account in February 2016 titled “UF IRHA,” for Inter-Residence Hall Asso-ciation, according to the complaint. The pair were the only signatories on the account.
Mian and Schoneck would deposit legiti-
mate UF Housing checks and transfer funds from student organizations into their account. 
Either one, or both, would physically go to the 
location and make cash withdrawals, usually thousands of dollars at a time, according to the complaint.
In March, Mian made 19 cash withdraw-als from the account, totaling $61,000. Ac-cording to the complaint, the pair withdrew about $470,000 since the account was created 
in February 2016.
Schoneck was ﬁ  red Thursday and three 
other Housing ofﬁ  cials — Jennifer Andrews, 
Mian’s executive assistant; Dirk Smith, a warehouse and stores specialist; and Curtis Harris, a Housing employee — were also ﬁ  red in October, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
One of the formerly suspected employees 
Kevin Morgan, a Housing Information and Technology worker, was cleared and returned to work Sept. 28, according to Alligator ar-chives.
Sikes said UF is taken back by recent 
events.
“I think it’s numbing,” Sikes said. “To have 
them betray your trust is pretty devastating.”
Mian and Schoneck were arrested on a 
felony charge of grand theft. Schoneck was re-leased from the Alachua County Jail Thursday night on a $100,000 bond. Mian remains in jail in lieu of a $500,000 bond, as of press time.
@hoffdavid123MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Philip Poekert can’t ﬁ  nd the exact words 
to describe how he feels about the millions of children worldwide who do not feel safe at school.
The story of King Carter, a 6-year-old boy 
who was fatally shot in a crossﬁ  re between gangs in 2016 in Miami-Dade County, motivat-ed Poekert to create change in today’s schools, he said. He hopes to save students from gangs, bullying, drugs and gun violence, he said.
“It’s unsettling to know that there are chil-
dren in this country that don’t feel like they have a place to be safe,” he said.
Poekert is the co-principal investigator of 
UF’s anti-violence project, “Enhancing School Safety Ofﬁ  cers’ Effectiveness through Online Professional and Job Embedded Coaching,” funded by a $1 million federal grant from the National Institute of Justice.
The project will assist with Miami-Dade’s school safety system, he said. Starting in Janu-ary, school safety research will be conducted and will continue for the next three years. 
Miami-Dade school resource ofﬁ  cers, who are 
police ofﬁ  cers stationed within schools, will be trained about social-emotional learning, trauma-informed care, cultural competence and restorative problem solving. This will help them understand how trauma affects children and more.
Poekert said students who have been mis-
treated due to their race, sexuality or beliefs 
who haven’t had a place to feel protected at 
school now will.
The principal investigator of the anti-vio-
lence project, Dorothy Espelage, said resource ofﬁ  cers will be taught supportive, positive mannerisms to use when working with stu-dents. 
“School resource ofﬁ  cers in our schools 
play a critical role in not only protecting youth, 
but creating an environment where teachers, 
students and all school staff feel safe,” she said.Million-dollar grant to 
educate Miami police oﬃ   cersSchoneck
Mian
By Nicholas Aguila
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a recent visit to Capitol Hill, a UF Health 
child psychiatrist and researcher highlighted 
her ongoing work with Tourette syndrome.
Carol Mathews, the director of the UF Cen-
ter for OCD, Anxiety and Related Disorders, at-
tended a congressional brieﬁ  ng alongside the 
Tourette Association of America on Oct. 18.
“Our goals were to make our senators 
and representatives aware of the importance of TS, and in particular, of the importance of continuing funding for education about TS through the Centers for Disease Control and funding for research from the National Insti-tutes of Health,” Mathews wrote in an email.
She said she advocated for the continued 
funding of $2 million to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, which works with the Tourette Association of America. The funding provides education for schools, pediatricians and other health care professionals, she said.Mathews said Tourette’s research has al-
lowed for better treatment options, better care guidelines and the use of global networks to 
coordinate research.
After meeting with legislative aides and 
congressional members to discuss recent re-
search, Mathews said feedback was positive.
Mathews, who has been researching To-
urette’s for 20 years, works alongside Michael Okun, the UF Department of Neurology chair, at the Tourette Association of America, she said.
“Tourette syndrome is among the most 
mysterious medical curiosities on the planet,” Okun wrote in an email.
Okun said it’s important for Congress to 
fund Tourette’s research and education so the general public can understand it.
“A secret in medicine is not always a pill, 
procedure or behavioral therapy,” he said. “A secret can be wisdom on a topic relevant today 
or any day in the future. We must do a better 
job to educate TS patients and families.”UF researcher talks Tourette 
syndrome on Capitol HillUPD: Two top UF Housing directors accused of $470K fraud
- Azfar Mian, senior director 
- Stina Schoneck, ﬁ  nance director
- Jennifer Andrews, Mian’s executive 
assistant
- Dirk Smith, warehouse and stores 
specialist
- Curtis Harris, Housing employee
Mian’s personal purchases with 
UF funds, according to audit:
- $37,171.07: electronic equipment- $44,910.98: household furniture from 
Furniture Kingdom
- $11,509.83: lawnmowers, trimmers
- $44,108.15: seven cell phones, internet 
and electric bills, etc.Housing ofﬁ  cials who 
have been ﬁ  red:The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
In search of an understanding of prejudice
L     ast Wednesday, I was at my usual weekly 
Undergraduate Philosophy Society meet-
ing (shameless plug, check us out on 
Facebook). That evening, the discussion centered around how we should attempt 
to understand bullying and how to prevent kids from doing it. Quickly, the group of us recog-
nized the ways in which bullying mirrors — and 
frequently reﬂ  ects — different phobias and oth-er bad “-isms” like homophobia, racism, sexism and transphobia. 
As we reﬂ  ected on the idea a lack of empathy 
and an abundance of ignorance often contributes to pred-atory behavior, I got to thinking. What factors do these prejudices share, and how can we collectively move away from them? In other words, what can we do as a society to 
raise future generations to be tolerant and loving human 
beings?
In philosophy, we often refer to individual people as 
agents or subjects performing actions — hopefully with knowledge, intention and perhaps free will — throughout 
the world. This claim might seem obvious, but each of us 
is a subject, not an object. We can act on other subjects and objects in our environments, but it is important to recognize other people, including friends, family members 
and strangers, are each themselves subjects.
Here’s where the bullying and victimization elements 
come in. Some philosophers argue, and I agree, predatory 
behaviors like bullying stem, at least partially, from failing to recognize other people as subjects and instead viewing 
them as objects. One way of understanding this comes 
from Martin Buber, a 20th-century Austrian philosopher who wrote on what he basically called the “I-Thou” and “I-It” relationships. 
As you might imagine, I-Thou represents a subject’s 
relationship to an “other,” an active engagement with — in the classic case — another person. I-It refers to a more static engagement with the world or the way we experi-ence or use objects around us. The relationship I have 
with my mom and dad represent I-Thou connections, but I have an I-It relationship with the car I use to 
get around each day.
These engagements, however, can get twist-
ed around. It seems clear to me our healthy relationships rest on an I-Thou foundation; we recognize the other person as outside ourselves but also worthy of respect, a subject with their 
own wants and needs, loves and pains. How-
ever, we can see how toxic relationships such as the one between bullies and victims or bigots and targeted groups seem to embody Buber’s 
I-It relationship.
The classic schoolyard bully uses their victims as means 
to an end: Perhaps the bully is subject to a difﬁ  cult family 
life back home, and targeting kids on the playground lends a false sense of importance and security. Victims serve as 
mere objects to the bully, for the bully does not consider 
how the victims must feel. 
This example lends itself quite well to more serious 
cases: a racist who belittles and demeans minorities, a big-ot who won’t recognize anything but heterosexual love or 
a sexist who thinks women are better seen and not heard. 
These people fail to recognize the shared subjectivity — the common humanity — between those who appear dif-ferent than them. This is especially clear when it comes to 
issues of intersectional marginalization or when a person 
experiences oppression as a result of belonging to a com-bination of certain races, genders or classes, for example.
I don’t mean to say philosophy can totally explain 
cases of victimization from elementary school bullying to 
widespread intolerance and hatred. But I do think under-
standing at least some of this behavior through Buber’s framework provides us with one more way to target, stop and prevent it: through a deeper comprehension of how we view ourselves and others in the world and how em-
pathy and respect for our fellow humans can truly get us 
to a safer and happier world. 
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Do white 
supremacists even 
believe in white 
supremacy?
White supremacy is on the rise. Not just in the U.S. but in nations across the globe. 
This past weekend, Poland celebrated its 99th In-
dependence Day with a number of ceremonies held in the capital. According to CNN, the celebrations were 
interrupted by a gathering of tens of thousands of nationalist pro-testers. The demonstrators reportedly carried banners that read 
abhorrent things like, “White Europe,” “Europe must be white” 
and “Pray for an Islamic Holocaust.” Other protesters sought to send a message to keep Poland Catholic and chanted, “Death to enemies of the homeland.” 
CNN reported the National Radical Camp, a far-right move-
ment in Poland often referred to as a neo-Nazi group, was the lead organization behind the march. 
We have found ourselves wondering, with each new horriﬁ  c 
demonstration, why these people do what they do. Support for these groups remains small. Those who align with their white-su-
premacist beliefs are viewed by society as nothing less than evil, 
heinous and foolish. Nevertheless there are people who continue to support white supremacy anyway. 
No matter how hard we try, we can’t fathom how anyone 
could truly believe the things white supremacists and their sup-
porters do. We can’t understand how anyone could fully believe 
they are more worthy of life than someone else simply due to uncontrollable circumstances like the color of their skin or the religion they follow. The only theory we could muster up that 
made even a little bit of sense to us is even they don’t really be-
lieve what they are doing is right. 
Hear us out.Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin and Benito Mussolini are, at this 
point, household names. Even if history isn’t your strong suit, 
you know they existed. These three men are perfect examples of 
the fact that when people act outrageously, they get remembered. For some people, this is the only goal they have. It doesn’t matter if their name goes down in infamy or in esteem, as long as they are remembered long after they are gone.
What we have begun to believe is this might be, at least in 
part, the driving force behind some of these white supremacists. Richard Spencer, for example, has a pretty good deal going with the National Policy Institute. As of 2017, the notorious alt-right 
ﬁ  gurehead has a net worth of $185 million. He was also ranked 
as the top paid activist of 2017. Although he is hated by most, he does maintain a gaggle of loyal followers who worship him. For better or worse, Spencer will be remembered long after he is gone. 
According to the Associated Press and the Daily Mail, as of 
2016, the top four white nationalist groups in the U.S. managed to rake in nearly $8 million in tax-deductible donations. These are the groups leading protests. These are the groups enticing others to join them. These are the groups spreading messages of hate. 
As they gain more loyal followers, they also gain more notoriety 
and money. Even if they might have reservations about the ideas they spread, they might value more the monetary reward and the certainty of a legacy.
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
You may have heard of the term gas-
lighting. It can happen between sup-posed friends, between an employee and their superior or in any other re-lationship. Whether within our own 
student organizations or on a national scale, it happens every day.
The term, which describes a form of psy-
chological manipulation, comes from the play “Gas Light,” which later became two ﬁ  lm ad-aptations. The man in the movie convinces his wife she is insane by changing things and then insisting they have stayed the same when she notices. In particular, he dims the gas lights 
and then claims she is imagining it. While 
it may seem like it’s just a lie, it in fact goes deeper than that because it causes someone to question their sanity.
Does this sound familiar? President Don-
ald Trump gaslights the nation by taking each negative story against him and claiming the mainstream media is out to get him. A well-sourced and indepen-dently conﬁ  rmed story breaks, and we’re told it’s just fake news. Lau-ren Duca originally wrote about this 
in December 2016 for Teen Vogue, 
where she wrote, “Trump won the Presidency by gas light. His rise to power has awakened a force of big-otry by condoning and encouraging hatred, but also by normalizing de-ception.” This has only continued in Trump’s administration.
Roy Moore, who is running for what used 
to be Jeff Sessions’ Senate seat in Alabama, has claimed The Washington Post’s reports of his inappropriate sexual encounters with teenage girls are just the liberal media trying to help his opponent. Republican politicians responded by saying he should withdraw if the allegations are true. The truth is this response is just another form of gaslighting. How much more conﬁ  rmation do they need?
Although outright denying the 
accusations might make Moore win 
in the short term, this response will 
hurt Republicans in the long run. Many ask why Moore’s victims didn’t speak out earlier, and the an-swer to that is easy: They expected this kind of response.
This isn’t limited to national politics. At UF, 
I’ve experienced gaslighting on a large scale at least twice. You go to leaders with concerns 
only to be told you’re being ridiculous and 
what you’re saying is not what’s happening or there’s nothing they can do. People claim to support transparency and accountability but don’t practice it. Often, leaders have the power to either perpetuate or solve a problem. As the saying goes, “a ﬁ  sh rots from the head down.”The key is to identify gaslighting and call it 
out when you see it. It’s disappointing this has had to become a theme of my weekly column, but it is amazing how people can allow abu-sive and toxic cultures to exist right under their 
noses. I’m not saying the victim is responsible 
for calling out abusive cultures, but there are those who see it happen or are complicit who can and should call it out.
Gaslighting is all-consuming and makes 
people feel terribly alone. It’s a form of harass-ment and bullying that is impossible to escape. It creates a toxic culture where people feel like they can’t speak out when they see problems. 
We need to validate each other’s concerns, in-
stead to sweeping them aside or throwing our hands up to say there’s nothing to be done.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
Jamie (not her real name) woke up on the 
ﬂ  oor next to a couch she didn’t recognize. The party was a few hours old. 
She was alert for a few minutes and 
tried to ﬁ  nd familiar surroundings. When 
a man checked on her, she asked him to take her home. 
The next thing Jamie remembers is being in 
her own bed with her pants off and that man between her legs. 
“Wait, what are you doing? Stop!” she re-
members saying. She told him she didn’t want to have sex. He told her they already had. “And you liked it,” she recalls him adding, imi-
tating a slithery smugness often accompanying 
accounts of sexual intimacy.
In my interviews for this investigation, this 
is the most consistent image of rape on UF’s campus: Girl gets drunk, girl blacks out, girl wakes up with a stranger in her bed, often in the act of raping her. 
Google search “sexual assault blackout,” 
and you’ll ﬁ  nd pages of teachers, scientists, law enforcement ofﬁ  cials and lawyers trying to rub clear the uncertainty, debating differences between intox-ication and incapacitation. Can you consent while blacked out? 
Sexual assault survivors don't 
have clear answers: When I asked how people should navigate situa-tions where one or both parties are operating on autopilot and “yes” may not actually mean yes, the con-versations turned choppy.  
“If you are pursuing another person who 
is visibly and obviously much less sober than 
you, you’re taking advantage of that person,” 
Abby, another survivor, told me.
“And you get that gray area if you’re both 
really, really intoxicated, but …,” she trailed off. “Honestly, I’m not sure … it’s tough — it’s a tough thing to combat.”
A Student Legal Services presentation on 
alcohol and consent reads an “inability to make decisions due to intoxication by any sub-stance” doesn't qualify as consent. What constitutes “inability?”
Abby was set up with a UF 
fraternity member — a friend of a friend — for her sorority's formal. 
Abby felt he was off-putting, and 
they drank to escape the tension. 
Abby went home with him (in 
no capacity to refuse, she said), blacked out at his apartment and woke up underneath him, having sex. 
With hesitant certainty, she said she con-
siders the experience rape. “It was just really 
violating,” she explained. 
Abby's close friend who attended the event 
and saw her the next day corroborated her ac-
count, but said she thought Abby’s date was as drunk as she was. If he was equally incapaci-tated, equally unable to consent, did he think he was also raped?
From his and Abby’s texts (available on the 
Alligator’s website), I would say no.Abby and her date’s conﬂ  icting reactions — 
one frightened, one prideful — show although there may be a shadowy space where alcohol meets sex and consent is unclear, that space is often only painful and traumatic for women. 
Perhaps because the brunt of the trauma af-
fects women is why we don’t ask what should be done about blackout consent, but whether something should be done. It’s women’s lot to cope with the consequences of man’s mis-takes. God forbid we tell men to not make them.
Why do we continue to let ambiguity justify 
inaction? Is the legal limit for driving not an 
equally arbitrary decision? When your blood 
alcohol content hits 0.08, do you suddenly lose the capacity to drive? Do you run a quick breathalyzer test before driving? 
We established a clear and measurable 
law — tolerating its uncertainties — for safer roads. When will we make the same sacriﬁ  ces for the safety of women’s bodies?A call to end the all-too-prevalent gaslighting culture in the US
When yes means no: Blackouts and sexual assaultColumn
Column
Champe Barton
opinions@alligator.org
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
surement is for, what we do and different tech-
niques,” he said.
Normal prosthetics can cost about $10,000, 
but Mahmoudi, the president of Gators for Refugee Medical Relief, said creating Moham-med’s prosthetics cost about $50 each.“It adds certain functions like being able to 
hold a water bottle,” he said. “I think the big-gest impact that it’s going to give him is a sense of personality. He’s going to have his own prosthetic device that’s really going to make him express himself.”
Shakila Ali, the secretary of GRiP, said the 
prosthetic will help Mohammed feel like he’s not alone.“Most of the kids that have a missing limb, 
it becomes a part of their identity, but they don’t let it control their decisions or alter their life in any way,” the 20-year-old said.
The UF health education and behavior ju-
nior said the delivery of the prosthetic hand was meaningful because she is a refugee her-self. Ali and her family are refugees from Af-ghanistan, and she moved to the U.S. when she was 5 years old.
Ali said it felt great seeing the group work 
so hard on making Mohammed’s prosthetic hand.
“Seeing the kid and his mom’s reaction was 
well worth their project,” Ali said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
REFUGEE,  from pg. 1The prosthetic was designed by UF students over two months music. The local dance group has 
participated in the festival since 2000. 
“We dance for our dinner and 
beer,” said Cindi Moncrief, the 
head dancer. 
On Saturday, Missouri resident 
Anand Avtar Kaur and Gainesville 
resident Lloyd Dubuc danced on the lawn in front of the Bo Diddley Community Plaza stage to Tim Luhrman and Friends’ live perfor-mance.
“We are strangers, but we 
dance to inspire adults to be kids,” Kaur said.
At the Imagination Station, an 
interactive entertainment area for youth, children yelled and jumped 
as they painted tables, streets and 
themselves. The area included a craft station, face painting, chalk murals and magical and circus performances. 
“It’s absolute insanity,” said 
Craig Rolend, a UF art history pro-fessor and organizer of the kid’s section. “We are just one kid short of chaos.” 
Maddie Howard, 3, got her face 
painted with swirls of pink and purple and black musical notes.
As the Downtown Festival & Art 
Show was taking place, Chomp-A-
Thon Gainesville held its first food 
truck rally in a parking lot across the street from the Hippodrome State Theatre, located at 25 SE Second Place, on Saturday.
Food Truck Eats Jax, a Jack-
sonville booking and food truck event planning company, teamed up with Gainesville City Center to host 11 trucks, including Adler’s, Delish Kebabs and funnel-cake makers Dank Cakes.
Other food vendors that lined 
the streets attracted long lines. 
Chase Werther, a 20-year-old 
UF philosophy junior, went to the event with a friend Sunday and got pad thai from a vendor next to Bo Diddley Plaza. She sat with her meal and watched a ballet perfor-mance on the plaza stage. She said she enjoyed seeing the crowds the art attracted, but her favorite part was spotting the dogs and children at the event. 
“Seeing people with their 
pets and babies are really fun,” Werther said.
Andrei said the event was 
aimed at all types of people, no 
matter their age or cultural back-
ground.
“That’s the goal, to have some-
thing for everyone to enjoy,” she said. 
Eugenia Soto contributed to this 
report.
FESTIVAL,  from pg. 1The festival and art show was held Saturday and Sunday THEY PLAN TO PRESENT THE 
PETITION TO SCOTT AT THE 
BEGINNING OF 2018.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Local officials started a petition Friday to 
protect LGBTQ+ state employees from be-
ing fired because of their sexual orientation. 
Gainesville and Alachua County leaders 
gathered Friday morning at Veterans Memo-
rial Park, located at 7430 NW 41st Place, 
to announce a petition requesting Gov. Rick 
Scott to sign an executive order to protect 
the rights of LGBTQ+ state employees, said Terry Fleming, a co-president of the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, City Com-missioner Helen Warren, County Commis-sioner Ken Cornell, County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson, UF faculty member Flo Turcotte and Fleming were all in atten-dance.  
“It’s unfortunate that in Florida, you can 
still be fired for being gay,” Fleming said. 
Following the Pulse nightclub shooting 
in Orlando, Scott promised LGBTQ+ activ-ists he would sign an executive order pro-
tecting the rights of LGBTQ+ state workers, 
but the promise was never fulfilled, Fleming said. 
“It’s a real abandonment of that promise 
that he’s not done so,” he said. 
The petition was announced on Veterans Day weekend to lift up LGBTQ+ veterans’ voices, said Fleming, who is a Navy veter-an. The main speaker at the press confer-ence, Brett Jones, was the first openly gay Navy SEAL.
“Our armed services protect the LGBT 
community, but if you come back to your 
hometown and you’re a veteran and you’re 
LGBT, you can still lose your job,” Fleming said.
The group hopes to present the petition 
to Scott at the beginning of next year, Flem-
ing said. 
Lauren Schenone, a spokesperson for 
Scott, said Florida doesn’t discriminate 
against LGBTQ+ workers.
“Florida is a state that doesn’t tolerate 
discrimination of any form,” she wrote in an email. “In accordance with federal 
guidelines, Florida state agencies do not dis-criminate on the basis of sexual orientation, and state employees should not be discrimi-nated against in any way.”
Warren doesn’t believe Scott’s statement 
is a sufficient response to the discrimination 
the LGBTQ+ community faces. 
“That’s a blanket statement saying that 
everybody is treated equally, but that’s 
not saying that individuals are protected 
specifically for an LGBT identity,” Warren 
said. “There are too many people still in the 
closet because they don’t feel comfortable sharing that part of their lives.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgLocal leaders petition to protect LGBTQ+ state workers
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Sofia Otero, 6, works on her painting alongside other children at the 36th annual Downtown Festival & Art Show on Saturday.
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Bob Senesac, a local artist, speaks to attendants who stop by his booth. More than 200 artists had their work on display at the festival.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ABOUT 100 PET OWNERS 
ATTENDED THE EVENT.
By Lawson Nuland
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pet owners gathered to race 
and raise money for veterans 
who need service dogs.
Close to 100 participants raced in the first Pup Ruck 5k 
Sunday afternoon from Depot 
Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave., to West University Avenue and back. 
The goal of the event was 
to raise $5,000 for the Pets and Patriots Foundation, which pro-vides veterans with service dogs in a short waiting time period, 
said Michelle Dunlap, the foun-dation’s executive director and founder.
“The average waiting time for 
a service dog is two years,” she 
said. “Pets and Patriots Founda-tion aims to lower that to two 
weeks.”
Dunlap said research has 
shown veterans with post-trau-
matic stress disorder can be 
greatly advantaged by the com-panionship of a service dog. 
Judy Johnson, a volunteer at 
the event, has family members in  
the military. 
“It’s definitely a worthwhile 
organization,” she said.
Participants and their dogs 
walked or ran during the race. Some attendees had their smaller dogs in strollers.
Kristina von Castel, a UF nu-trition professor, walked with 
two of her dogs: Bear, a lab mix, 
and Liza, a hound mix.
“I think it’s a good event to 
support our veterans, support rescuing animals and pairing in-
dividuals with animals that can 
help one another,” the 42-year-old said. “That’s what commu-nity is all about.” Dog owners, pets race through Gainesville for veterans
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Pez, a 5-year-old Pembroke Welsh corgi, looks up at attendees of the ﬁ  rst Pup 
Ruck 5k at Depot Park on Sunday. The event was held to raise money for the Pets and Patriots Foundation, which helps veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder acquire service dogs.
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Racers wait for their time to start at the Pup Ruck 5k at Depot Park on Sunday. About 100 racers were in attendance, and the goal was to raise $5000.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
THE VICTIM IS 16 YEARS OLD.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman accused of sex trafficking a 16-year-
old girl turned herself in Thursday. 
Shawntorria Cortez Alford, 27, was identified as a sus-
pect Tuesday in a human trafficking case police have been 
investigating for nearly two months, Alachua County Sher-iff’s Office spokesperson Art Forgey said at a press confer-ence Thursday. Alford turned herself in after hearing in-vestigators with a search warrant had looked for her at a location she frequents.
Deputies received calls of suspicious activity at the Scot-
tish Inns hotel, located at 4341 SW 13th St., in September 
and found the victim alone with a man unrelated to her in 
a room at the hotel. Forgey said it’s believed the victim and Alford became friends before the act. 
Alford, whose street name is “Tink,” would have taken 
the victim in and provided her with food, shelter and money before pushing her to perform sexual acts with individuals, Forgey said. Deputies are still figuring out how long Alford had trafficked the victim. 
“We’re just glad that before it went on any longer we 
could get it stopped,” Forgey said. 
As of press time, Alford remains in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $2.2 million bond on charges of engaging hu-man trafficking of a child under 18 years old, procurement for prostitution and interfering with custody of a minor. 
ACSO is only aware of one victim currently but is pre-
pared to hear of others coming forward now that Alford is in custody. Forgey said human and sex trafficking isn’t a frequent crime in Alachua County, but it does happen. 
“One case of it is one case too many,” he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
By Sofia Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
After hundreds of sea turtles were dis-
covered dead off Central America’s coast, Gainesville sea turtle experts are theorizing about the cause of the deaths.
About 300 to 400 sea turtle bodies were 
found off the coast of El Salvador between Oct. 28 and Nov. 2, according to National Geo-graphic.
UF graduate student Daniel Evans, who 
is a researcher at Sea Turtle Conservancy in Gainesville, said he suspects the die-off was caused by red tide, which is algal blooms con-taining red toxins from runoff water. 
“Turtles cover a ve ry large area during 
their migration, so because this was so con-centrated, we know that it is tied to a specific event,” he said. “Red tide does seem like a valid explanation for it.”David Godfrey, the executive director of the 
conservatory, said researchers in El Salvador 
are examining the tissue, blood and stomach 
content to assess if the animals died from the red tide toxins. The blooms most likely grew due to climate change, Godfrey said. 
“The algal most likely bloomed as a result 
of increased ocean water temperature due to global warming and/or agricultural runoff,” Godfrey said. 
Godfrey said he has hope for the turtles despite the die-off. The species was promoted from the list of endangered animals to the list 
of vulnerable ones in 2008, according to the 
International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. 
“It is absolutely terrible that these turtles 
are dying in such large numbers, but it is worth noting that despite the terrible die-off, there are hundreds of thousands of olive ridley,” God-frey said. “The species is doing quite well.”ACSO: Suspect in 
sex trafficking 
case in custody
Gainesville turtle experts discuss El Salvador die-off ABOUT 100 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Seven-year-old Willow Ness spent two 
days learning and rehearsing the dance she 
performed Sunday morning with a crowd of 
about 100.
Her mother, Free Ness, organized Gaines-
ville’s first “Dance for Kindness,” a charity 
event that took place on Flavet Field.
“Be kind to everybody, and kindness will 
come back to you,” Willow Ness said.
Free Ness, the Gainesville leader of non-
profit organization Life Vest Inside, said in 15 countries more than 3,500 participants 
do the same dance on the same day at the 
same time. This year, Gainesville was one part of the global crowd.Ness said Dance for Kindness is an annu-
al fundraiser and a way to build awareness of World Kindness Day, which is today. The crowd danced for about five minutes.
Other local organizations presented 
information at the event to encourage in-
volvement in the community. Healthy Fam-
ilies Florida, Family Network on Disabilities and Best Buddies distributed information at tables and spoke with attendees.
Ness said the charity is still counting 
how much money they raised at the event. One anonymous donor gave $1,500. She said she hopes to hold the event again next year.
“The point is to just come out and have a 
good time with people and talk about being kind,” Ness said. “I’m hoping to make this something that will be huge in Gainesville.”First ‘Dance for Kindness’ event held on Flavet Field
Eman Elshahawy / Alligator Contributor
Children and adults gather on Flavet Field to participate in Gainesville’s first 
“Dance for Kindness. ” They were among thousands around the world who danced in honor of World Kindness Day, which is today.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Amy Meacham goes to work to help 
her daughter.
She and a team of researchers at UF 
are working to develop treatments for 
rare chromosomal disorders like the one 
Meacham’s daughter was diagnosed 
with in 2015.
Amy and Tony Meacham adopted 
their daughter Moriah Joy in 2014.
“She is definitely a joy to us all,” 
Amy said. “Her name is very appropri-
ate.”
About 11 months into Moriah Joy’s 
life, Amy noticed some developmental 
delays that prompted her to bring Moi-rah Joy to the doctor. Tests showed she had a rare X-chromosome deletion re-sulting in 50 missing genes, Amy said.
They were told the disorder was complicated, and a cure doesn’t exist, she said.
“We wanted more answers,” she 
said. “I just knew that there were an-swers out there, and I was going to find them.”
So Meacham — a longtime leuke-
mia researcher — began searching for a cure. Along with her husband, she launched Xtraordinary Joy, a nonprofit to raise funds to work toward treat-ments and a cure for rare chromosome disorders, in May 2016 to fund her re-search efforts.
Currently, Meacham and her team 
are working on reprogramming Moriah 
Joy’s blood cells to become brain cells 
they can study. Through these brain cells, researchers can explore what de-ficiencies exist and develop target thera-pies to correct them, she said.
Moriah Joy, now 3, has made some 
progress through the help of therapy. Her family is teaching her sign language to help with her communication. For now, her vocabulary is made up primar-ily of “hi” and “wow,” Meacham said. Due to underdeveloped facial muscles, Moriah Joy can’t chew food, so she’s fed formula.
The Meachams’ story has captivated 
people in Gainesville.
Allison Derovanesian, a UF pre-
health student, is working with four others to create a student organization for the cause.
Derovanesian received an email 
from UF about the nonprofit Xtraordi-nary Joy and, after reading Moriah Joy’s 
story, decided to get involved.
“It’s very inspiring for sure, and I’m 
excited to be able to help out with it 
here at the UF campus,” the 23-year-old said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgUF researcher pursues daughter’s cure
THE GROUP RAISED 
ABOUT $600.
By Alexandra Regueiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
Scooters, SUVs and a 1986 hot rod 
were some of the about 30 vehicles mem-bers of the Campus Diplomats washed in 
honor of Veterans Day.
All money raised from the annual 
car wash, about $600, goes to the UF 
Collegiate Veteran Success Center, said Mallory Kazaleh, a liaison between the veterans center and Campus Diplomats.The car wash, held in the parking lot 
of Checkers and Rally’s on West Univer-sity Avenue on Saturday, has happened every year for the past five years, said Tommy King, a liaison with the Campus Diplomats. 
“The Campus Diplomats are all about 
connecting people at UF and making sure that everybody feels like they’re at home,” King, a 20-year-old UF biology junior, said. “The people that are benefit-ed by the CVSC feel like they’re home.”
Kazaleh and King said they feel a per-
sonal connection to the CVSC.
“We believe that these student vet-
erans deserve just as many opportuni-ties as a normal UF student, and we are going to do everything in our power to guarantee their access to these opportu-nities,” Kazaleh, a 20-year-old UF biol-ogy junior, said. 
Jason Conner, a Marine Corps vet-
eran and UF chemical engineering se-nior, washed cars and bought volunteers chicken bites and fries from Checkers. 
“Personally, the CVSC gives us a loca-
tion to meet other people and help each other transition from military to civilian life,” the 27-year-old said. “When lunch-time came around, I figured I had to re-pay them somehow. Who doesn’t love 
food?”Veterans Day car wash helps UF vetsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
1999 MERCEDES BENZ E430
Almost brand new. Runs excellent.$6000/OBO. Call 352-226-0205     11-17-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14Oak Hall School hiring for 2018-19
Academic Dean(PreSchool-12 th grade) and 
Head of Lower School (PreSchool-Grade 5) 
Respond to: tedling@schoolstrat.com    11-
13-17-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       11-17-17-6-14
PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place
Experience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 
352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience 
preferred. Must have director's credential. 
Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco 
Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. Who holds the major-league 
record for most home runs by a rookie 
shortstop? 
2. In a 2016 game, each member of 
the Cleveland Indians starting infield hit a home run. The last time the Indi-ans did that was 1941. Name two of the four infielders who did it then.
3. In the history of the Rams fran-
chise, three running backs gained 1,000 or more yards in their rookie 
season. Name two of them.
4. Which Big 12 Conference rival 
ended the Kansas men’s basketball team’s 51-game winning streak at 
Allen Fieldhouse in 2017?
5. The first round of the 2017 Stan-
ley Cup playoffs set a record for most overtime games in NHL history. How many?
6. The U.S. set a record for over -
all medal count at a non-boycotted 
Olympics with 121 at the 2016 Sum-mer Olympics. At what Olympics did the U.S. set its previous best?
7. Who was the last men’s golfer to 
win back-to-back U.S. Opens?
Answers
1. Boston’s Nomar Garciaparra, 
with 30 in 1997.
2. Hal Trosky, Ray Mack, Lou Bou-
dreau and Ken Keltner.
3. Eric Dickerson (1983), Jerome 
Bettis (1993) and Todd Gurley (2015).
4. Iowa State.5. Eighteen overtime games.6. The U.S. won 110 medals in the 
2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.
7. Curtis Strange, in 1988-89.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 6, 2017King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDAffordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Position at work
4 Busy as __
8 India neighbor
13 “You __ here”:
mall map words
14 Banquet, e.g.
15 Top-quality16 With 36-Across,
Polo Grounds
great
17 Saber-rattling
19 Ravel classic
21 Car dealer’s no.22 Bro’s sib23 Carry on wildly
25 Regatta
propellers
27 Shed a few
pounds
32 California’s San
__ Obispo
34 Disco __: “The
Simpsons”
character
35 More up-to-date36 See 16-Across37 Shed purpose40 Dismantled Brit.
music
conglomerate
41 Truckee River’s
lake
43 Crude __
44 Small cut45 Romantic triangle
figure
49 Continuous
change
50 “__ le roi!”:
FrenchRevolution cry
51 Relaxing retreat
54 Drop from a list56 Rose garden
pests
60 End up just fine
63 After-tax64 What a
password
provides
65 Not working
66 Rocks in a bar67 Giggly sound68 Little dog breeds69 Highway
breakdown need
... or, initially,feature of 17-,27-, 45- and 60-Across
DOWN
1 Vertical door part
2 Two-toned
cookie3 Inventor
associated with
telephones
4 California Zephyr
operator
5 “Tell it like it is”6 Sensory organ7 Sch. before junior
high
8 Wetsuit material
9 North Pole
assistant
10 Seats for the
flock
11 Palm tree berry
12 Acronym parts:
Abbr.
15 McDonald’s
freebie
18 Starting on20 Important periods24 Dorothy’s dog26 “Sprechen __
Deutsch?”
27 Ten percent
donation
28 Public commotion29 Edmund who
played KrisKringle
30 Prefix with sphere31 __ odometer32 Ronnie in the Pro
Football Hall ofFame33 Beehive State
37 Let free
38 Old Sony brand39 “Think __, act
locally”
42 Cartoon fight
sound
44 Merit badge holder46 Garden fertilizer47 Red sign over a
door
48 Syrup trees
51 ASAP, to an MD52 Brownish purple
53 Foot part55 Silly goose
57 Not yet
eliminated
58 Art __
59 Hearty bowlful61 Word seen
between married
and maiden
names
62 Old name for
Tokyo
By Mark McClain©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/13/1711/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Animated film set
partly in
Insectopia
5 By way of, to
Burns
9 Try
13 Like many trees
in winter
14 Respond
16 Approximately
2.2 lbs.
17 West Point, e.g.:
Abbr.
18 “Are you calling
me __?”
19 Currier’s partner
20 Moment-of-truth
words
22 Fight
24 Geological period25 Track-and-field
events
27 Bugs often
caught
29 DOJ chiefs
30 Cough syrup
amt.
33 Jessica
Simpson’s pop-
singing sister
35 Extreme degree36 Cookie with a
limited-editionSwedish Fishvariety
37 Went over the
limit
38 Hidden supply40 Club charges
41 Some twitches
42 Nigerian native43 Not covering
much
45 Calligraphy
supply
46 Corvallis sch.47 Like either main
face of ElCapitan
48 Slightly
embellished truth
50 Decay
53 Energetic worker
56 Part of a
proverbialsecretive trio
58 Jet engine sound59 “The Wonder
Years” mom
61 Old El Paso
product
62 Related
63 Move quickly64 Quickly, in
memos
65 Alice’s workplace66 New Year’s Day
word
67 Orch. section
DOWN
1 Taper off2 Dipping chip3 Conductor’s job?
4 Last letters in
Canada
5 Recycling,
composting,etc.?
6 Greek sun god
7 “Nick of Time”
singer
8 Andean tuber9 Moves merrily
10 Couch potato’s
device
11 Brown bar orders12 Highly respected
speakers maker
15 Livestock feed
approximation?
21 Cruise stop23 NBA stats26 It may be beaten28 Bygone
automaker
30 Tongue-in-cheek
presidentialtribute?
31 Barely flow32 Bouquet33 Italian wine city34 Public relations
distortion
35 Mil. category
36 “Garfield” dog
39 Touch on
44 Board and
lodging
46 Electrical unit47 Hit hard, as the
brakes
48 Yells “Fore!” at
49 Junior Jetson
51 First name in
bologna52 Features of some
sports cars, andwhat this puzzle’s
four longest
answers have incommon
53 Eighth of a fluid
ounce
54 Oxen coupler
55 Carpentry
fastener
57 Sch. support
groups
60 Army training ctr.
By Robert and Marlea Ellis©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/09/1711/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Commotion 
1.  Relax5.  Wagon part
2.  Dizzy, staggering6.  ____ circle
3.  ____ Hawks7.  Tropical reptile 
4.  Ancient cityRRAOUP
WDNUINHLEWE
RENIN
EEGNILR
NALTAATAGANUI
PRATSAANSWERS: 1A-Uproar  5A-Wheel  6A-Inner  7A-Iguana
1D-Unwind  2D-Reeling  3D-Atlanta  4D-Sparta  B-Delaware11-13-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is about 96 miles long 
and about 30 miles wide.
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsWashington State football 
coach Mike Leach is a vocal proponent of expanding the College Football Playoff. Our columnist couldn't agree more, pg. 15. UF women's basketball team wins season-opener
With the help of ﬁ  rst-year coach Cameron Newbauer, the Gators women's 
basketball team won its ﬁ  rst game of the year on Saturday, 82-66, over 
Georgia State. T o read our full recap, visit alligator.org/sports. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
 
Taven Bryan was wearing a blue 
collared shirt. He had stripped off the 
bulky shoulder pads that he wore about 30 minutes before, pulled off 
the white jersey that had been cov-
ered with dirt and sweat, and, for just a moment, unburdened himself of what was running through his mind.
It came in eight simple words.
“We’ve got some bad stuff on our 
team,” Bryan said Saturday, stand-
ing in the underbelly of Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina.
It was a moment of transparency 
— rare for any member of the Flor-ida football team, but not unheard of. After Florida’s 45-16 loss to Mis-
souri, an impassioned David Reese 
called out his teammates for their effort. The sophomore linebacker said UF's play against the Tigers was “unacceptable.”
And after another loss on Satur-
day, this time a 28-20 defeat at the 
hands of South Carolina, another 
Florida player was candid.
“We’ve been purging it out,” said 
Bryan, a redshirt junior defensive lineman.
Purging out the “bad stuff,” he 
said. The temptation to give up. To take it easy, to rest for the remainder 
of a regular season with two rela-
tively meaningless games left.
“This really shows who you are 
as a person and as a player, Bryan said. "If you quit, you’re a quitter. Once you’re a quitter, you’re always a quitter.”
After UF’s loss to the Gamecocks 
— one in which its struggling of-fense and defense were again on dis-play — the Gators ﬁ  nd themselves 
in football purgatory. 
They are likely out of consider-
ation for a bowl game. They will 
likely ﬁ  nish the season somewhere unfamiliar, right in the middle of the SEC East Division standings. They face the possibility of ending the sea-son with a losing record for just the second time in 38 years.
And after Saturday, still breath-
less after the gut punch that was los-ing coach Jim McElwain on Oct. 29, the Gators’ play culminated in an-other loss. A ﬁ  fth consecutive loss. 
“It’s been a bumpy path,” Reese 
said.
UF's offense started slow with 
just two ﬁ  rst downs in the ﬁ  rst quar-
ter. At one point, South Carolina had 
outgained Florida 168-24.
The Gators converted two of 
their 15 third-down attempts. Each time the offense failed, jogging back to the sideline to be replaced by the punt team, the Gamecocks’ ﬁ  ght call — the sound of a squawking rooster —  echoed in the stadium. After a 
while, the call felt less like a rallying 
cry for the home team and more like a taunt of Florida’s lifeless offense.
“Obviously the season we’re 
having, man, it’s just kinda hard to keep the conﬁ  dence up,” quarter-back Feleipe Franks said.
Franks entered the game in the 
second quarter and helped lead the Gators on three scoring drives dur-ing the loss. He replaced starting quarterback Malik Zaire, who suf-
fered a left knee injury. Shannon 
said he did not know the extent of Zaire’s injury and whether he will return this year.
But, after Saturday, Franks was hopeful. Hopeful that Florida can return home and win its remaining two games, one against UAB and the other against 3-6 Florida State.
Hopeful that UF will improve on 
the effort and energy that Reese said was missing two weeks ago against Missouri, but that improved slightly against the Gamecocks. 
Hopeful that Florida will ﬁ  nd 
something  to play for.
“We’ve gotta go out there and 
we’re gonna ﬁ  ght,” Franks said.
“We’re gonna be just ﬁ  ne.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org  LOST CAUSE: With bowl unlikely, Gators playing for pride
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators interim coach Randy Shannon lost his second consecutive game on Saturday. 
VOLLEYBALL: FLORIDA 3, MIZZOU 1
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Tears, hugs and smiles ﬁ  lled the 
O’Connell Center during the pregame cer-emony as the Gators honored their seniors. Caroline Knop, Lindsey Rogers, Shainah Joseph, Carli Snyder and Rhamat Alhassan 
were all joined by family members before 
defeating the Missouri Tigers in four sets, 25-16, 23-25, 26-24, 25-16 .
Joseph, the redshirt senior from On-
tario, Canada, cried as she walked up to coach Mary Wise during the ceremony. Jo-seph wiped her eyes as she prepared for the photo-op that followed.
“It’s crazy to think that ﬁ  ve years have 
gone by and this is my senior night,” she said. “Being a freshman coming here, I didn’t get it. I didn’t get why it was so emotional but now I understand it.”
Joseph led all players with six kills in 
the ﬁ  rst set and ﬁ  nished with a career-high 
20 kills to go along with three blocks and 
two errors.
After coasting through the ﬁ  rst set and 
riding the high of Senior Day, the Gators were tested in the second and third sets when both frames went to the brink.
Missouri forced Florida into 11 offen-
sive errors (nine attack, two service) in the second.
In the third, Florida came back after 
trailing by three on Missouri’s set point. Thanks to the heroics of Alhassan and her two blocks in the ﬁ  nal moments of the set, the Gators stormed back and took the third by scoring ﬁ  ve straight points.In the fourth, UF secured the victory 
by riding the wave of stellar play from Jo-seph. Sophomore Morgyn Greer had two straight kills to send the contest to match 
point and paved the way for Allie Grego-
ry to ﬁ  nish it off with her ﬁ  rst ace of the game. During the fourth set, Joseph had six kills and hit .667, while Knop had six digs and played stellar defense throughout the frame, despite wearing a splint throughout the match.
“It had the feeling of (an NCAA tourna-
ment) second-round match,” coach Mary 
Wise said. “Points were so hard to come 
by. They were physical. You see what their middles did and Melanie Crow was such a difference maker for them.”
In the middle for the Gators, Alhassan 
and sophomore Rachael Kramer combined for 20 kills and 10 blocks, as Alhassan led all players with six blocks.
Snyder added another double-double 
performance (13 kills, 16 digs), her ninth 
of the season.
For Missouri, Crow led the Tigers with 
10 kills and was disruptive on the defen-
sive side of the net, blocking four shots. In addition to Crow’s performance, four Tigers had double digit digs, and the team as a whole held the Gators’ electrifying of-fense to a .213 hitting percentage on the day.
“You’ve got to give a lot of credit to 
Missouri,” Kramer said. “They are a tough team… It was kind of a struggle tonight.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org 
On Senior Day, Shainah Joseph leads Gators over Tigers Florida 20 S. Carolina 28
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Out of all the unpopular opinions I’ve 
formed about sports, there isn’t one I stand 
by more ﬁ  rmly than this: I hate the College 
Football Playoff.
It’s the absolute worst. It sucks.
That four-team tournament held every 
year to determine a new national champion for the most popular sport in America?
I’d rather have Donald Trump be presi-
dent for the rest of my life than have to watch more than ﬁ  ve minutes of that garbage.
OK, not actually. But you get the point. I 
really, really don’t like the CFP. Here’s why:
It’s a total disgrace and embarrassment for 
the NCAA that only four teams are selected to participate in one of the biggest and most-
watched events in all of college athletics.Believe me, I’m well aware of 
the fact that up until three years 
ago, there were only two teams 
granted an opportunity to ﬁ  ght 
for the national title. So sure, four is deﬁ  nitely an improve-
ment over two.
But how can you watch the 
NCAA Tournament for men’s 
basketball — which features a bracket comprising 68 teams 
— every spring and not fantasize about the 
drama and intrigue that would surround col-
lege football if more teams were included in 
its postseason.
It would be so much more exciting and 
fair than the current format.Just ask Washington State 
coach Mike Leach, who has re-
peatedly called for the playoff to 
expand from four to 64 teams.
“I don’t know why you don’t 
have 64 teams,” he said in 2015. 
“The notion of pinpointing and 
selecting four perfectly, well 
that’s not going to happen.
“It would be indisputable that 
it was settled on the ﬁ  eld, and 
somebody that wins playoff games accord-ingly deserves to be champion… It would be 
great fun to watch.”
That it would, Mike. That it would.
Can you imagine if the NBA, for example, 
decided that starting this season, only the league’s top four teams would qualify for the 
playoffs. Or what about the NFL or MLB?
Imagine how insanely boring those post-
seasons would become. There’d be no room 
for crazy upsets. There wouldn’t be as many games.
And I guarantee you, fans of those leagues 
would be beyond furious with such an exclu-
sive format.
So what’s the difference between that hy-
pothetical scenario and the current setup of 
the CFP?
 Dylan Dixon is the Alligator’s assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at ddixon@alliga-
tor.org.You know what sucks more than the College Football Playoff? Nothing.You’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixon
Although the Gators are start-
ing out ranked No. 8 in the AP 
preseason poll, coach Mike White 
has expressed multiple times that 
his team doesn’t deserve that ranking yet. He said the team’s inexperience and lack of “grimi-
ness” has held his players back.
However, one player White 
and the Gators can rely on is their buzzer-beating Badger buster. 
Anyone who watched Florida 
basketball last year knows what Chiozza, a senior from Memphis, 
is capable of. He had the fourth triple-double in program history against Missouri on Feb. 2, and since then, he has been a reliable 
playmaker in UF’s offense. In the 
Gators’ ﬁ  nal 14 games, Chiozza averaged 10.1 points, 3.7 assists and 4.1 rebounds per game.
“He made a big jump there 
mid-last season,” White said. “And I think he’s ridden a little wave of momentum. He’s playing with a lot of conﬁ  dence.”
It’s that conﬁ  dence that al-
lowed Chiozza to step up as a leader in his junior campaign. White said Chiozza has become 
even more of a role model as he 
heads into his last season at UF. 
“We need him to lead these 
guys,” White said. “He’s as im-portant to this team as anyone on 
this roster.”
While Chiozza didn’t start a 
game last season, he didn’t let 
that affect his mindset or how he 
played. The opportunity to start  
in his senior year will reveal what his teammates already knew — Chiozza is a leader, a talented 
one.
“I feel like he’s the same lead-
er,” forward Kevarrius Hayes 
said. “Even though he was play-
ing behind, it wasn’t as much like 
a second-role thing. Everyone was a leader. And he felt like it was his part to do what he could 
to help the team.”
However, being a leader 
comes with more expectations, and because White is looking for 
more players to step up, eyes will be on Chiozza. He will be tasked 
with taking over the starting 
point-guard role that Kasey Hill held last season and with help-ing the team’s six freshmen get accustomed to playing in Florida 
jerseys.
White also said he expects 
Chiozza to communicate more in 
games and be the ultimate exam-
ple for the team on offense and 
defense.
“He can’t be the guy that jogs through a cut, that isn’t as pre-pared as everyone else for the scouting report, that takes a play 
off in any aspect of the game,” 
White said. 
At the same time, the Florida 
coach doesn’t want him to be a ﬂ  ashy player, the guy who takes 
over on the court and tries to be 
something he isn’t.
White’s not the only one with 
high expectations for Chiozza. His 
teammates look to him as some-
one who brings them together.
Hayes said Chiozza has be-come more vocal heading into his senior year.
“He deﬁ  nitely tries to talk 
with everyone now,” Hayes said. “Sometimes we’ll all get together and play (NBA) 2K tournaments or sit back and watch some bas-ketball games.”
Despite an early setback — a 
shoulder injury suffered on the Gators’ second possession during an exhibition game against Jack-
sonville that will leave him ques-
tionable for the season opener — Chiozza knows what his team is capable of, and that Florida will be ready for tonight’s game.
“We all get along on and off 
the court, and we kind of know each other’s games now,” Chioz-za said. “I feel like we have pret-ty good chemistry already, but I mean, it’s only gonna get better 
throughout the season.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 1Chris Chiozza begins senior season tonight in O’Connell Center
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza’s last second three-pointer downed the Wisconsin Badgers as Florida earned its first Sweet 16 win since 2014. 
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2017
