We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 92 TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
“We’re going to give them hell”
Women’s T ennis coach Roland Thornquist
feels conﬁ  dent heading into California tourney,pg. 15
UF President Fuchs honored as citizen of the year
He will be awarded today, pg. 4
Online fundraiser created for men who 
attacked swastika-wearer 
As of press time, more than $2,000 has been raised, pg. 4FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
The silence on Monday night was 
breached by snifﬂ  es, gasps and the 
occasional whisper in a foreign lan-
guage, as students from countries 
now banned under a Donald Trump presidency spoke out against his ex-ecutive order.
As more than 100 people gath-
ered in the Reitz Union’s Arredondo Café, Leonardo Villalón, the UF In-ternational Center’s dean, addressed UF international students concerned 
about the temporary travel ban im-
posed on seven Muslim-majority countries by Trump on Friday. UF ofﬁ  cials, including representatives 
from the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce and 
Student Legal Services, tried answer-ing questions. Their voices shook with emotion.
“This is all very abstract, but your 
lives are affected by this,” Villalón said. “I know how horribly distress-ing this is.” 
The ban restricts immigration 
from Syria, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Ye-men, Libya and Somalia for 90 days, while suspending the U.S. refugee program for 120 days and suspend-
ing the entry of Syrian refugees in-
deﬁ  nitely. 
In total, 167 UF students, faculty 
and staff come from one of the seven banned countries, according to ﬁ  g-
ures from UF spokesperson Janine 
Sikes. Of those, 126 are students. These people do not hold green cards or have permanent residency, 
but study or work at UF on scholar 
or work visas.
After Monday’s meeting, Villalón 
said he tried answering questions as best he could but often couldn’t 
give students concrete solutions. A 
Syrian student asked how he could renew a passport that expires in eight months. There aren’t Syrian 
embassies nearby, and now he can-
not leave the U.S. to get to one in an-other country.
Villalón and faculty members 
shook their heads or looked at their 
feet. Their only solution was wishing 
for politics to shift.
“You have eight months,” Vil-
lalón told the student. “Let’s hope.” UF students from banned countries speak out
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Leonardo A. Villalón, the dean of the UF international center, addresses those who are concerned 
about the president’s new travel ban in the Arredondo Café at the Reitz Union on Monday afternoon. “Your lives are very much affected by this, ” Villalón told the crowd of about 100 in attendance. 
NO OFFICIAL DATE 
HAS BEEN SET FOR THE                         
WASHINGTON, D.C. MARCH.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
For the sake of science, seven UF stu-
dents plan to march on the nation’s capital.
The students will carpool more than 
700 miles to join the March for Science in 
Washington, D.C. to protest President Don-ald Trump’s views on science. Organizers for the march said in a tweet that they will 
announce the march’s ofﬁ  cial date soon. 
The organizers, according to the march’s 
ofﬁ  cial website, are members of a nonpar-
tisan group and want political leaders to enact evidence-based science policies, like 
acknowledging climate change. The group 
also wants to end the Trump administra-tion’s recent scrutiny of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
Alexis Rosetti, a UF international stud-
ies and political science junior from Mary-
land, planned the trip for her friends, be-
cause she wanted people from Florida to 
be involved. 
“I’m excited in a sense; we hope we can 
make a change,” the 20-year-old said. “But alarmed in a sense that we even have to go 
protest the access to information.”
Christa Zweig, a UF Department of 
Wildlife Ecology and Conservation cour-
tesy faculty member, said she feels like she 
has to protest for the rest of the country. 
“A lot of times people think what we do 
is about saving the environment, but we’re 
saving the environment to save people,” she said.
Zweig, 42, has two master’s degrees  UF students to join 
March for Science in D.C. THE ACCIDENT LEFT A CHILD 
WITH A HEAD INJURY AND HER 
MOTHER WITH LEG FRACTURES.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man, possibly high on cans 
of dust cleaner, drove a U-Haul truck into a 
mother and her child Sunday, injuring both, 
Gainesville Police say.
The accident, which occurred at about 
5:31 p.m. at a Wal-Mart parking lot, left the child with a minor injury to her head and the 
mother with a broken right femur and a bro-
ken bone in her lower right leg, according to a police report.
Upon arrival to the store, located at 5700 
NW 23rd St., police approached the driver, Evan Harrison Hawes, and noticed he seemed extremely thirsty, a sign of gas inhalation.
Inside the truck, which he rented, police 
found several cans of Dust-Off spray with the usage tabs removed. Police suspected him of inhaling the contents of the cans, according 
to the report.
Earlier in the day, at 
about 3 p.m., a person ob-served Hawes’ truck strike property behind a building, 
located at 1300 NW 42nd 
Ave., before ﬂ  eeing the 
scene.
Using the truck’s tag in-
formation, police identiﬁ  ed 
the renter as Hawes. The U-Haul was located at the house, but no one answered or could be located.
Police arrested Hawes on a charge of reck-
less driving with serious bodily injury and leaving the scene of an accident with prop-erty damage.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he remains in lieu of a $27,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org GPD : U-Haul driver hits 
mother, child in parking lot
Hawes
SEE INTERNATIONAL,  PAGE 8
SEE SCIENTISTS,  PAGE 8NATIONALNATIONALWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Special showing of ‘The 
Uncondemned’ at the 
Hippodrome For one night only, head to the Hippodrome State Theatre for a 
screening of “The Uncondemned” 
at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. After the show, join the Hippodrome as they Skype with director Michele Mitchell to answer audience questions and discuss the grip-ping story of justice throughout the film. “The Uncondemned” is the world-changing story of 
a group of young international 
lawyers and a group of activists who fought to make rape a war crime and the Rwandan women who came forward to testify. Up to this point, rape had not been prosecuted as a war crime and was committed with impunity. A courtroom thriller and per-
sonal human drama, the film 
interweaves the stories of the characters in this odyssey, lead-ing to the trial at an international criminal court and the results that changed the world of crimi-nal justice forever. For more in-formation or to purchase tickets, call the Hippodrome Box Office 
at 352-375-4477 or visit tickets.
thehipp.org.
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’ The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” from Friday to Sunday in the 
Constans Theatre. This new play 
by Canadian playwright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the story of Talbot and Michaud, two Quebec City seminarians from oppos-ing social classes with conflict-ing ideas about life, religion and art. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for 
seniors and UF faculty and staff 
and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
‘Art from the Heart’ art auction 
SaturdayThe Council for Exceptional 
Children and the Gainesville 
Woman’s Club is hosting the “Art from the Heart” art auction at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, lo-cated at 2809 W. University Ave., on Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is a live and silent art auction benefiting students with special needs in Alachua County 
schools. The auction features the 
work of local artists, drinks, great food provided by Napolatanos and live music. Join us for our 35th year of art and entertain-ment. Tickets are $25. Purchase tickets in advance by contact-ing Debra at 352-955-7671, ext. 1624 or Jan at 352-538-3067. Tickets may also be purchased at 
the door. For more information, 
visit Council For Exceptional Children - Gatorland Chapter 1024 Facebook page.
International brass festival
UF’s School of Music is pleased to present the 2017 International Brass Festival on Saturday and 
Sunday. The two-day event will 
feature internationally recog-nized guest artists Nathan Zgonc, Christian Paarup, the U.S. Air Force Band Trombone Quartet, the University of Tennessee Faculty Brass Quintet and more. The festival includes numerous master classes and recitals and  is 
open to musicians of all ages. The 
2017 International Brass Festival will also feature an exhibit room with many popular brass manu-facturers. All events are free and open to the public. For more in-formation, please visit arts.ufl.edu/brassfestival.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career Expo The annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be held Feb. 8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers rep-resenting the food, fiber, natural resources and life sciences sectors 
will be in attendance. Students 
can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent employment, as well as represen-tatives of graduate programs and professional schools. All students are encouraged to attend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. For more information, 
visit cals.ufl.edu.
Time warp '80s night at the 
Hippodrome 
Go back in time with the Hippodrome State Theatre. On Feb. 8, the Hippodrome will fea-ture a special showing of “When Harry Met Sally.” What better 
way to welcome Valentine’s Day 
than with a throwback romantic comedy? For more information or to purchase tickets, call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 or visit tickets.thehipp.org.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment art 
showLocal applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with assis-tance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is producing an em-powerment art show and perfor-mance-art showcase for the semi-annual anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, located at 
2029 NW Sixth St. Artists and 
performers of all styles are wel-come to submit work that evokes themes of recovery, healing from trauma, self-discovery and love. A public display of affection con-test will occur at Superfun! on Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a range 
of art workshops and art-making 
opportunities such as a public canvas and storytelling exercises. All couples are welcome to partic-ipate. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more information.
Sex in the swamp: condom design 
challenge 
The Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta 
Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017 in the Florida Gym on Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. Spring Break tips, in-formation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited 
quantities available), will be fea-
tured. The event will also feature a condom design challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-design-challenge/ no later than Monday.
352Creates leadership team op-
portunity The UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of inter-est and a resume. For more infor-mation, visit 352Creates.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 92
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  46°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandBy Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Starbucks is doing what it can to help 
refugees when they come to the U.S.
In the wake of President Donald 
Trump’s immigration ban, the compa-
ny’s Chairman and CEO Howard Schultz 
announced Sunday the coffee chain 
plans to hire about 10,000 refugees in the next ﬁ  ve years, according to its website. 
“We have a long history of hiring 
young people looking for opportunities and a pathway to a new life around the world,” according to the statement.  
For students at UF, some were ex-
cited to support the company’s stance 
while others disagreed.
“I don’t think it’s inconsistent with 
Starbucks,” said Anthony Zona, a UF 
political science and telecommunication freshman. “It’s certainly one of the more left-wing corporations in the country.” 
The 19-year-old said it’s Starbucks’ 
right as a privately owned company to take a political stance, but in doing so it’s 
alienating half of its consumers. Though 
he isn’t boycotting Starbucks, he thinks some students might.
“A lot of other people are going to be 
like ‘stick to the coffee, Starbucks,’” he said. 
But he doesn’t think the company’s 
announcement will hurt it in the long-run. 
“It will blow over just like everything in American politics,” Zona said.
He said that while Trump’s tempo-
rary ban on immigration from seven 
Muslim-majority countries has been 
highly criticized, he thinks the 120-day suspension of all refugee admission will allow the country to look at its immigra-tion and vetting policy and make sure it’s keeping U.S. citizens safe.
“It’s a few months to get our house in 
order, and I don’t think that’s too ridicu-lous to ask,” he said.  
But Rana Al-Nahhas, 21, said she’s 
excited to see Starbucks support refu-gees. Though she would get coffee about once every week in the past, she said she can see herself becoming a more fre-quent customer. 
“I am shocked and overwhelmed by 
Starbucks’ generosity and humanity,” the UF psychology senior said. 
Al-Nahhas said her parents are immi-
grants from Syria and almost all of her family still lives there. She worries about her family’s and other Syrians’ ability to come to the U.S. if they are in danger. 
“The fact that this ban is targeting all 
these countries that need help is unjusti-ﬁ  able,” she said. 
She said a powerful country like the 
U.S. has an obligation to help others. It’s not political, she argued. It’s being hu-man.
“Everyone loves coffee and now 
there’s a reason to love Starbucks even more,” she said.  TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Carolyn Witman, an anesthesia resident at UF, eats and drinks coffee with Ryan Butler and his 
dog, Penny, outside of the downtown Starbucks, located at 201 SE First St., on Monday. After the Starbucks CEO pledged to hire 10,000 refugees, #BoycottStarbucks started trending on Twitter. “I’m anti-boycott and pro-Starbucks, ” Witman said.
 Students react to Starbucks’ plan to hire 10,000 refugees
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Two thousand gallons of 
wastewater spilled into a UF creek 
that connects to Lake Alice on Sunday, prompting state ofﬁ  cials to sanitize the affected area.
At about 10 p.m., 5,000 gallons 
of the sewage were released from a manhole on campus. As a result, 2,000 gallons entered a stormwater system that feeds Lake Alice, wrote UF spokesperson John Hines in an email.
Upon being notiﬁ  ed, ofﬁ  cials 
with the Florida Division of Emergency Management State Watch Ofﬁ  ce sanitized the 
affected area Sunday night with hydrated lime and took samples of 
the creek for testing, Hines said.
An FDE incident report 
notes that the spill did cause “environmental impact” but would not affect drinking water. No deaths or injuries were reported. 
No Department of 
Environmental Protection callback was requested, the report states.
“Ofﬁ  cials aren’t entirely sure 
of the spill’s cause but suspect failed sensors, that when working properly, monitor sewage levels and trigger pumps,” Hines said.
The site of the spill was 
reported as 1858 Mowry Road — Lift Station 1, Rabon Chilled 
Water Plant, Hines said.When tests of the water 
samples are returned in “a few 
days,” State Watch Ofﬁ  ce ofﬁ  cials will be able to further update the public on the status of the creek, he said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org 
 2,000 gallons of raw sewage spill into creek at UF 4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
PLAZA PROGRESS
Workers are seen renovating the pavement on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday afternoon. The 
renovation project is said to cost $2.2 million, according to Alligator archives.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
More than $2,000 has been 
raised to pay for the legal fees of 
two Gainesville residents who police say attacked and robbed Michael Dewitz, the man who 
sparked a four-hour protest at UF 
over his use of a swastika.
After police on Thursday arrrest-
ed Daniel Joseph Schexnaydre, 29, and Alex William Flinchum, 26, for stealing Dewitz’s swastika-adorned jacket after the protest, a group named “Students Against Nazis” created an online fundraiser on 
Saturday to help them.
After the protest, which was 
held on Turlington Plaza, Dewitz, 
34, was confronted on Northwest 13th Street. The men stole his jack-et before one of them burned it, police said.
About 119 people have donated 
to the page, which will go toward Schexnaydre’s and Flinchum’s le-gal and court fees, according to the website. Police arrested Schexnay-dre on charges of unarmed rob-bery, tampering with evidence and conspiracy. Flinchum was arrested on charges of unarmed robbery and conspiracy.
Organizers for the fundraiser 
could not be reached for comment.
Alex Munger, a Georgia Institute 
of Technology physics senior, said he saw photos from Facebook of Dewitz and hoped students would take action against him.
“The only way to end fascism, 
as world history has shown, is to 
brutally end it,” the 21-year-old said.
Munger said Schexnaydre and 
Flinchum did the right thing, so he donated $25 to the fundraiser. 
Though Lirun Ronen, 20, stu-
dent president of the Lubavitch-
Chabad Student group, said he was disappointed to see photos of Dewitz wearing the swastika, he didn’t think violence was the solu-tion.
“The protest at Turlington was 
amazing,” the UF aerospace engi-neering junior said. “I thought (the men) undermined everything we were trying to do on campus that day with the peaceful protest.”
Ronen suggested fundraising for 
Holocaust awareness instead.
“At the core of it, the problem is 
a lack of knowledge,” he said. Fundraiser created for men 
who attacked swastika-wearer
THE CHAPTER RAISED 
$940,000 IN DONATIONS, 
NEEDS $250,000 MORE
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
After months of uncertainty, 
the North Central Florida YMCA 
announced Monday its doors will remain open. 
The center, located at 5201 
NW 34th Blvd., removed its self-imposed deadline, set for Monday, after the organization found success in fundraising in the past month, said CEO John Bonacci.
About $940,000 in donations 
has been pledged and $11,000 was collected at a recent 
fundraiser, but nearly $250,000 
is still needed to have the U.S. Bankruptcy Court’s case against the YMCA dismissed, Board President Robert Walpole wrote in an announcement Monday.
Bonacci said the organization 
was not yet in the clear.
“There is still a threat that we 
could be closed down — not by my board, but by the courts,” he said.
Hearings and negotiations 
about the bankruptcy are ongoing, Bonacci said.
On top of the debt, an 
additional $300,000 will be needed for critical facility 
renovations, he said.
“The process itself is very 
taxing, absolutely exhausting,” 
Bonacci said of the fundraising process. “Every little battle, every little success definitely reminds us why we’re here — it gives us hope for winning the overall war.”
Gainesville’s YMCA serves 
more than 5,000 people a year, with 2,000 of those members being children and 1,800 senior citizens.
The YMCA offers the 
SilverSneakers program to help senior citizens maintain a fitness membership, one of few in Gainesville, Bonacci said.
Longtime YMCA member 
Leslie Galloway, who started the Facebook page “NCF YMCA Advocates” in December to spread 
the word about the organization’s 
financial dilemma, said she felt relieved when she heard the facilities would stay open.
The 28-year-old spends about 
two hours a day fundraising and spreading the word about the YMCA’s financial dilemma, which has become like a part-
time job, she said.
Galloway, whose family has 
been a part of the 49-year-old 
YMCA for more than 30 years, said she’s looking forward to helping raise the rest of the money.
“So many people have some 
type of experience at our Y, 
whether it’s learning to swim 
or they were part of the soccer program,” she said. “In some way, it has affected everybody’s life.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgYMCA to remain 
open, yet still faces 
financial hardshipBy Romy Ellenbogen and 
Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
After two years in the city, UF 
President Kent Fuchs will be de-
clared Gainesville’s citizen of the year today.
At a meeting of the Gainesville 
Area Chamber of Commerce, to be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.,Fuchs will be awarded the Citi-
zen of the Year award at the Hilton UF Conference Center at 1714 SW 34th St. The annual award is given to a Gainesville citizen who makes long-term, positive impacts on the city, said Susan Davenport, the 
CEO and president of the chamber.
Davenport said Fuchs is receiv-
ing the award partly in recogni-
tion of UF’s Strategic Development Plan, which is the university’s goals to work with the city to im-prove areas on and off campus.
“I think he’s just been such a 
tremendous addition to our com-munity,” Davenport said.
Fuchs wrote in an email that 
others, including UF Senior Vice President Charlie Lane, who con-ceived the strategic development plan, deserve credit for the award.“I will be 
accepting the award on behalf 
of the entire uni-versity, includ-ing Vice Presi-dent Lane and all 
of the employees 
who work to 
make the Gainesville community stronger,” he said.Fuchs said he was surprised by 
the award since he has only been in Gainesville for two years.
“I’ve received awards as a pro-
fessor and for my work at universi-
ties but never from the community 
in which I’ve lived and worked,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF President Fuchs named Gainesville’s citizen of the year
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
When transportation app Uber 
began offering cheap rides during a taxi strike against President Donald Trump’s recent immigration ban, UF student Yousef Alghawi deleted 
the app from his phone.
“I think it’s pure exploitation,” 
the 21-year-old political science ju-
nior said. “I come from a Muslim background and most of my family members, many of my friends, and I as well deleted the app.”
After Trump issued an order to 
temporarily ban immigration from 
seven Muslim-majority countries 
Friday, the New York City Taxi Workers Alliance announced it would halt all services in solidarity with  those who were barred from entering the country, according to the alliance’s Facebook page.
On the same day, Uber NYC 
took to Twitter and removed all 
surge prices at John F. Kennedy In-
ternational Airport on Saturday as an incentive for users.
Across social media, the hashtag 
#deleteUber took off, as users be-
gan deleting the app as a response 
to what they saw as the company taking advantage of the strike.
By Sunday, Uber’s CEO Travis 
Kalanick tweeted that the immi-gration ban is “against everything Uber stands for.”
For Alghawi, the apology came 
too late. 
“It’s a PR move where you’re 
straight up denouncing what you’re benefiting from directly,” he said.
After deleting the ride-hailing 
app, Alghawi said he plans to use 
Lyft, a competitor of Uber which 
plans to donate $1 million to the American Civil Liberties Union over the next four years. He feels sympathetic to Uber drivers, but Alghawi said he feels strongly about boycotting the company’s leadership.
Jose Vilches, 23, an Uber driv-
er in Gainesville, said he is also against Trump’s immigration ban and doesn’t have a problem with those who delete the app.
“I think it’s important for every-
body to exercise that right,” the UF industrial and systems engineering senior said.
Vilches said he believes Uber 
took advantage of the taxi strike to make a profit.
“From an employment per-
spective, it’s not enough for me to quit,” Vilches said. “But as for 
others that want to boycott, more 
power to them.”
Community members boycott Uber app after protestsFuchs
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The line of customers Monday 
snaked from a cash register, around 
a table and out the door, where the grating hum of construction reminded Randy Akerson that his 
business, after 40 years, was going 
under.
Akerson, the 65-year-old owner 
of Gainesville’s Burrito Brothers Taco Co., spent much of his time in the restaurant’s kitchen as an outpouring of support walked through his door Monday, a day after news broke of his restaurant’s 
imminent closure scheduled for 
Saturday. 
“I’m already closing in on three 
times the average day,” Akerson said at about 4 p.m.
By closing time, he said the 1402 
W. University Ave. restaurant had seen a more-than-threefold increase in customers, up to about 500 from 
150 on a standard day.
But for Akerson, who with his 
wife Janet, has peddled burritos 
and “love sauce” to generations of UF students and Gainesville area residents, the spike in customers was bittersweet. “This is not how I wanted to 
end up, with a staff in tears and customers in tears and me in tears, and a government going ‘oh boy, we did the best we could,’” Akerson said.After moving up West University 
Avenue to its current location in 2015, Akerson noted a 23-percent drop in revenues between October 2015 and October 2016, and he blamed it in part on the development 
of The Standard at Gainesville 
next door, which limited street parking and deterred customers. He expressed discontent with the City of Gainesville’s lack of action.
Elisabeth Emery, a UF alumna 
in town for a teachers’ workshop, quickly made plans Monday to meet up with other alumni at the 
restaurant from their college years.
Emery, a 26-year-old living in 
Leesburg, Florida, said she was 
disheartened to hear Burrito Bros. was closing, and her parents — both UF alumni from the 1980s — felt her pain. 
“I really feel a connection to this 
place,” she said.
After sipping a beer and snacking 
on chips, Emery said she planned to order a pork, beans and rice burrito, with ﬁ  ery “love sauce” on top — and a doggy bag for her parents.
“I’m seriously considering 
buying them two burritos and taking it home with me tonight,” she said.
mvassolo@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Customers on Monday afternoon eat inside the Burrito Brothers T aco Co., located at 1402 W. University 
Ave. After 40 years of business, the owner announced the restaurant would close on Saturday.
 Hundreds ﬂ  ock to Burrito Bros. day after news of closure
By Brooke Henderson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
As he patrols the streets,  Michael 
Cavett’s rainbow bracelet sticks out 
against his dark-blue police uniform, a sign of his pride.
For Cavett, a gay Gainesville 
Police ofﬁ  cer, the bracelet — along with his equality pin — serves to reassure members of the LGBTQ+ community that he is one of them.
As one of three members of GPD’s LGBTQ+ liaison team, formed following the June 12 Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, 
Cavett is essentially one of the faces 
of GPD’s outreach. And whenever he’s approached by a member of the LGBTQ+ community, he’ll give his signal: “I’ll either point to the pin on my chest,” he said, “or start playing with my wristband on my arm.”
After the Pulse shooting, GPD 
formed its liaison team, said GPD Lt. 
Jaime Kurnick, who is lesbian.Cavett said he remembers 
growing up feeling unaccepted and 
underrepresented, and he hopes 
to improve police relations in that 
sense. 
“I’d like to see us gear it toward 
the LGBT community,” Cavett said. “So they don’t feel like they are not victims of a crime because they are a member of that community.”
GPD is in the process of approving 
guidelines ofﬁ  cers should use when 
they’re working with members of the LGBTQ+ community, Cavett said, 
adding that the department hopes to march in the Gainesville Pride 
Parade and Festival and modify self-
defense classes speciﬁ  cally for the LGBTQ+ community.
Nate Quinn, an 18-year-old 
UF psychology freshman, said as a transgender man, he would be nervous if he had to interact with police, because ofﬁ  cers in the past have not honored people’s preferred 
gender identities.His suggestion: “If you don’t 
know someone’s pronouns, ask 
them.” 
Kurnick said she wants the 
community to feel comfortable when interacting with ofﬁ  cers and said she feels lucky to work in an ofﬁ  ce that’s accepting of her and other members of her community
“We’re not scared of this,” 
Kurnick said. “We’re very open about this. We want to address these 
issues.”
Since Pulse, GPD team works to improve  LGBTQ+ relationsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsPart two: Observations in modern-day Cuba
Three major changes happened just 
prior to my visit to Cuba.  First, direct commercial flights began flying be-
tween the U.S. and Cuba. I paid a little 
more than $200 for a round trip with 
JetBlue, purchasing my tickets only a couple weeks in advance. Of course, you must still 
fit into one of the 12 exceptions for travel if 
you are an American, but travel agencies and cruise lines (which have only recently begun docking in Cuban ports) have found ways around this, constructing educational and “people-to-
people” itineraries.  Regardless, the airline has you sign 
an affidavit indicating your official purpose of travel, a requirement which became clear to me that many Americans fabricate or exaggerate. No one ever checked 
my press credentials.  
The flight from Ft. Lauderdale lasted about 45 min-
utes, cruising over the Everglades and the Florida Keys 
before rapidly arriving in Havana’s José Martí Interna-tional Airport. While regarded as a journalist by the 
U.S. per the delicate rules of the embargo, to the Cuban 
government, I was a tourist. Cuban tourist visas you are required to purchase can be arranged through the Cu-ban embassy, at the American airport of departure and 
reportedly via third parties.  I purchased mine at the air-
port during check-in for $50, although it can be ordered in advance for less. Foreign travelers are also required to purchase a Cuban health insurance plan, which was included in the cost of my airline ticket.   
In a second major change, the Obama administra-
tion lifted the previous limitations on the individual purchase of Cuban cigars and rum. Simultaneously, Obama called on Congress to finally end the embargo. 
The former reform was a very welcome one, as I was 
able to take home two boxes of cigars and two bottles of delicious, aged Havana Club Rum. As for the embargo, Congress has been reluctant to take up the politically sensitive issue, with some 
prominent Republicans claiming the commu-
nist government has not given enough ground on human rights or civil liberties of its citi-zens to warrant lifting the embargo. To them, 
this would be tantamount to rewarding bad 
behavior. President Donald Trump has indi-cated that he will “terminate the deal,” revok-ing the recent normalization of relations and 
looser regulatory policy if Cuba is unwilling to renegoti-
ate with him. 
The last major development just prior to my visit 
was the death of former Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Im-
ages of the fallen leader were present throughout the 
island, and slogans such as “I am Fidel” could be seen 
painted on the side of buildings or “Cuba is Fidel” print-ed across the front page of the Granma, the Communist Party newspaper. To most Americans, Fidel was just a dictator. But to many Cubans remaining on the island 
and others throughout the developing world, he was a 
David who stood up against Goliath; Fidel shook his fist defiantly against the powerful U.S. and lived to tell the tale. When Fidel and his bearded green-clad guerrillas 
rode triumphantly into Havana, they were replacing a 
brutal right-wing dictatorship that was subservient to the U.S. government and business interests. And while poverty in Cuba is extraordinary, the lives of many of the poorest Cubans improved after the revolution with 
newfound access to health care, education and expand-
ed rights for women and blacks. 
Read the conclusion of this column Wednesday on 
ideology, oppression and the need for new policy.
Ford Dwyer is a third-year student at the Levin Col-
lege of Law. This is part two of a three-part series.Rage, rage against 
the dying of the 
light — A message 
to activists
It has been a hard week, that much is evident. On an in-
ternational, national and local scale, there’s been so much fear, hate and uncertainty. Some of you, dear readers, want to fight back, but it feels like you are yelling into a vast, empty canyon, your voices resonating loud and clear but 
eventually disappearing into the air, drowned out by the wind. Some of you are tired. Perhaps you fought once, perhaps you kicked and roared and screamed, perhaps your voices, too, were lost to the wind. And some of you carry on, unaware, unconcerned, because this fight isn’t yours, this battle is one you kind of wanted to win in the first place — though you won’t admit that now as the discontent grows.
If you’re in that latter group of people, this message isn’t for 
you. That’s for another time.
Right now, we’re talking to those who have been fighting, 
those who are scared and hurt, who know that even after the big marches are done, after people put away their signs and their hats, after something else captures the media’s attention, they still have a long way to go. We’re talking to those who feel like they cannot take a break, who feel like if they don’t continue to march and continue to fight, the world is going to forget them for next week’s shocking headline.
It’s a hard time, when you feel so encompassed with rage 
and hurt, yet the scope of it all is just so big.
You have posted long statuses on social media. You have 
called your senators, signed petitions and donated money to organizations. You have marched, you have protested, you have shown up to a rainy street corner with a sign, hoping to make a difference, but watched people pass by barely looking your way.
To those people who have fought, who fight, who will con-
tinue to do so, we thank you.
We know it’s hard. We know that the odds seem insur-
mountable right now. We know that it seems like the whole world wants to ignore you. And that’s just why we need you — reminding the world that yes, you are here; yes, you are still here; yes, you will keep on.
We need you fighters to, in the words of Dylan Thomas, 
“Rage, rage against the dying of the light,” because though the world seems dark, there is still a fight within you all.
The battle is hard and it is long. That’s why we want to 
remind you that it’s OK to take a break. That sometimes, the world is overwhelming, and even though you try your hardest to fight against the bad, sometimes you need to step back, let others fight for a moment, while you take care of yourself. It may make you feel guilty. Sometimes when the whole world is hurt and scared and angry, a moment of personal happiness seems selfish. But you are allowed to take that moment. You are allowed to be happy. You are allowed to remember the goodness in the world you are fighting for. If anything, it will 
make you stronger as you stand back up and march forward.
Because there are good things in this world to enjoy, good 
things to protect. Reminding yourself of that helps you remem-
ber just why you are fighting, helps keep you strong, helps move you forward.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORFord Dwyer
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Professor Bishop was rather proud 
of my last column, and I must say it was cathartic to put myself out 
there and admit to my clockwork, 
mechanical nature. Having people 
know me as an automaton doesn’t feel so different from being known as a human; 
friends accepted it fairly quickly, although 
I’m getting tired of people asking to use me as their personal calculator. I’ll say this now: No, I cannot tutor you in Elementa-ry Ordinary Differential Equations. Yes, I 
can calculate the answers to any questions 
you may have in mathematics, anthropol-ogy and philosophy in the blink of an eye. No, it would not be ethical to do the latter. 
However, my operating system is open-
source, if you’d like to take a look at it. 
However, professor Bishop was rather 
upset at ﬁ  nding out I deleted my capacity to dance to swing music and made me spend 
all week reinstating it. Sometimes, when 
professor Bishop gets angry, he’ll threaten to send me back to the steamboat he found me on. According to him, I was a singing animatronic before rain and hu-midity corroded my body and my consciousness. I don’t think I’ll 
delete any protocols without his 
permission again. Lesson learned and saved to C:\ProgramFiles\User\Michael\Memory\Lessons\
Life-Lessons. 
Professor Bishop has encour-
aged me to read and given me 
access to his personal library. He said I could read any book I’d like, except, 
of course, for anything by Kurt Vonnegut 
— for obvious reasons. I was inexorably drawn to a particular book: “The Tales of Captain Albert Alexander” by Samuel P. 
Garvey. It’s a book of tall tales about a re-
nowned sea captain, and professor Bishop says he bought it years ago at a robotics convention for a few cents. I took the book and read it in an evening. The book itself 
is only about 200 pages long, but all sorts 
of notes and symbols are drawn in its mar-gins. Drawings of humanoid ﬁ  gures, lay-outs of basic electrical circuits and snip-pets of information on materials sciences are littered throughout the white space in the book. Pro-
fessor Bishop says he bought it 
used. 
There’s one chapter I wanted 
to discuss in particular called 
“Captain Alexander and the 
Walrus with Tooth Decay.” The plot is largely irrelevant, but the chapter addresses the idea of los-
ing your identity when you try to please 
others. 
People love to tell you to do what makes 
you happy, or that pandering to other peo-
ple sacriﬁ  ces your integrity. If you focus 
on what makes you happy, then everything 
else will fall into place. I don’t hold onto the sentiment, at least not ﬁ  rmly. It’s a gentle, cautious grip. Part of what makes us (or, rather, you all) human is socializa-
tion; it’s a useful tool to have on your tool 
belt. If you’re in the right mindset, making other people happy should make you hap-py. It doesn’t necessarily have to equate to pandering, but it will mean putting oth-er people before you. Many people have molded your personality, outlook and cast-
iron chassis. Professor Bishop is the reason 
I release steam at a rate at which I won’t overheat, and he’s the reason my joints are sturdy enough to let me type at my tho-
racic typewriter for hours. I’d consider it 
a disservice not to give back. The self is a culmination of people around you; ﬁ  nd those positive inﬂ  uences, and give back. 
Conversely, if you feel like someone’s 
inﬂ  uenced you negatively, feel free to ex-cise them and purge yourself of that inﬂ  u-ence. For example, hypothetically, if pro-fessor Bishop made me spend my whole 
week recoding my entire swing-dancing 
protocol, I should purge that protocol al-together and demand professor Bishop to never make me dance again. 
I’m just kidding, professor Bishop. 
Please don’t send me back to the steam-boat.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineer-
ing junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Go ahead and make others’ happiness your happiness — you won’t lose Column
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
Six board members from 
Gainesville Citizens for Active 
Transportation voted to endorse Helen Warren and Harvey Ward 
on Monday after six candidates 
for City Commission pledged to help make city streets safer.
The candidates spoke at the 
third annual candidate forum for 
Gainesville Citizens for Active 
Transportation at Santa Fe Col-lege’s Center for Innovation & 
Economic Development on West 
University Avenue. 
In March, Gainesville will 
vote. 
The candidates, including Jenn Powell and Helen Warren for At-Large positions, Sheryl Eddie and Harvey Ward for District 2 and David Isaiah Arreola and Craig Carter for District 3, spoke to about 60 residents in hopes of re-ceiving an endorsement from the organization.
District 2 candidate Eddie sug-
gested converting old city buses to mobile health clinics and early learning centers.
“We can take services to 
neighborhoods that need them,” she said. “I hope I get your vote because I have ideas, and I know how to implement them.”
Eddie said she supported 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe’s initiatives to decrease traffic ac-cidents. Ward, her opponent, agreed. 
“Safe driving conditions is the 
elephant in the room,” Ward said.
Alycin Hayes, 63, who at-
tended the forum meetings, said the city needs to implement safer bike lanes to prevent further ac-
cidents. Hayes, a children’s book 
author, said she attended the meeting to hear what the candi-dates had to say.   
“What I mostly want to 
hear is what they will do,” the Gainesville resident said. “Before I vote, I want to see what candi-dates stand for.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org Local group endorses City Commission candidates
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator Staff
At the third annual candidate forum on Monday, Alachua County City Commission candidates Sheryl Eddie, Helen Warren and Harvey Ward address Gainesville citizens about transportation in Gainesville.
from UF: one in wildlife ecology 
and conservation and the other in natural resources and the en-
vironment. She currently works 
in South Florida as a researcher on Everglades restoration. She wants the government to ac-
knowledge the reality of climate 
change and to stop restricting government scientists from pub-licizing their work, she said. 
“I’ll march because they de-
serve to do their very important job without fear for their ca-reers,” she said.
Mason Schoeppl, a UF sus-
tainability and the built environ-ment sophomore, said he has cared for the environment since he became a vegetarian as a young child.
“The government is try-
ing to destroy climate change,” the 20-year-old said. “Basically they’re erasing history and what 
scientists have already proven.”
Although Schoeppl said he 
thinks the march will be impact-ful, he’s not sure if he’ll be able to attend.
Rosetti said she decided to 
march after the White House 
counselor Kellyanne Conway 
said Press Secretary Sean Spicer 
used “alternative facts” to de-scribe Trump’s inauguration crowds.
“The public access to accurate 
information, especially with sci-ence, uses an unbiased source of numbers,” she said. “That access is very important.”
Rosetti said she knows cli-
mate change exists and advises anyone who doesn’t to read sci-entists’ findings. She said Trump should work with global organi-
zations to combat the issue.
“I think people are afraid, and 
I think people want to make sure 
in a very outward and public way 
that their voices are being heard 
and quite literally marching on Washington to not be ignored,” she said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgThe date of the march 
will be announced soonUnlike others, Santa Fe College 
alumna Nazek Abuhalala has her 
family with her. Her and her mother, Manal Abuagela, come from Libya, a country targeted by the ban.
Abuagela, a UF doctoral student, 
said she spent all her savings moving her family to the U.S. to study. Now, a year before earning her Ph.D., she’s worried their progress will be erased.
She questioned how the ban 
could happen here, in a country she considered free.
“This is considered a crisis af-
fecting the U.S. history,” Abuagela 
said. “This is a country of freedom, a 
country of diverse respect.”
As people stood and asked ques-
tions, an Iranian student who moved to the U.S. about two years ago said while he’s happy with UF’s support, he still feels marginalized. The stu-dent, who didn’t give his name for fear of his safety, said he no longer feels comfortable saying where he’s from. 
“What I saw in this session was 
accepting the fact that they insulted us, disrespected us, and we can’t do anything about that,” the doctoral student said. “It’s not about being back home for Summer, I won’t die if I don’t go back home. But 
it’s about what do I do to just at 
least say, ‘I exist, and you insulted 
me?’”
Villalón told the doctoral stu-
dent he didn’t have easy answers. 
“I cannot end American rac-
ism,” he said. “I cannot end Amer-ican xenophobia. But I can tell you that I think if there is a way to end it, it can’t be by capitulating. It’s got to be by fighting back.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
INTERNATIONAL,  from pg.1126 UF students come from the seven restricted countries
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
UF officials ranging from attorneys to faculty members gathered in the Arredondo Café at the Reitz Union on Monday afternoon to address the concerns of those affected by the president’s new travel ban.
SCIENTISTS,  from pg.1THE ALCOHOL WAS STORED IN 
GALLON-SIZED BOTTLES.
By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
A Miami man with a Georgia driver’s li-
cense was caught Monday driving with 24 
gallons of moonshine disguised as water, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office said.
At about 10:52 a.m., Joe L. Edwards II, 44, 
was pulled over on southbound Interstate 75 near Micanopy, according to a police report. 
Police searched the vehicle and found a 
few gallon-sized water bottles in the front seat hidden in a brown bag, according to the re-port. Police found an additional three boxes of bottles hidden under clothing in the back seat and five boxes of bottles in the trunk.
Edwards told officers the bottles contained 
alcohol, not drugs, according to the report. Deputies smelled the clear liquid and said it smelled strongly of alcohol.
Each bottle was sealed and had a small 
label, which was inconsistent with how alco-holic beverages are manufactured, according to the report.
A special agent from 
the Florida Division of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco confirmed the bottles held moonshine, an unregulated hand-made 
alcohol, according to the report.
Police arrested Edwards 
on charges including pos-
session of a gallon or more of moonshine whiskey and moving or concealing beverage with intent to defraud state of tax. Authorities took him to Alachua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, without bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
THE FREE FINANCIAL 
LITERACY CLASSES START 
WEDNESDAY.
By Maddie Harlow
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a city full of students, bad 
spending habits can easily spread.
So, beginning Wednesday, a 
Gainesville organization will offer 
free classes on money manage-ment.
As a part of a growing finan-
cial literacy program, the Catholic 
Charities of Gainesville is offering a four-part series, said Bishop James 
Dixon, the instructor of the course.
“It’s good preventative main-
tenance to keep them from falling into some traps,” he said.
The Financial Fitness Series will 
be at the organization’s office, lo-
cated at 1701 NE Ninth St. 
The classes will meet from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Thomas Knight, the associate 
chair and lecturer for UF’s depart-ment of economics, said most stu-dents have no idea how to manage 
their money. 
He said there are no downsides 
to increased financial literacy, es-pecially when many students rely 
on loans to attend college.
“Basic financial literacy is criti-
cal for people who are taking out 
tens of thousands of dollars in stu-dent loans,” Knight said.
Jennie Pendarvis, 19, said the 
classes are something she and her 
friends are interested in. 
Not many students learn about 
their financial responsibilities prior 
to college, but the UF materials sci-ence and engineering sophomore 
said she sees the need to.
“You don’t want to make a mis-
take that would impact your finan-
cial future just because you’re not 
aware,” she said.Free money-management classes offered
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Board of Trustees will 
now help decide how UF Health 
Shands Hospital will manage $800 million of debt.
The board unanimously made the 
decision Monday that Shands must consider the board’s opinions when deciding how to handle the debt. Shands accumulated the debt fol-lowing the construction of two new properties, UF Health Neuromedicine 
Hospital and UF Health Heart & Vas-
cular Hospital, scheduled to open in December, said David Guzick, UF’s senior vice president of health affairs and president of UF Health.
Guzick wrote in an email that 
after the debt is subtracted from Shands assets, the hospitals are still worth more than $1 billion. 
Shands’ board of directors deter-
mines how the debt is settled, but 
the Board of Trustees wanted to 
provide more accountability, wrote UF spokesperson Janine Sikes in an email.
“It allows some oversight in the 
decision making,” she said. 
Currently, Guzick, UF President 
Kent Fuchs, UF Chief Financial Offi-cer Michael McKee and one trustee, Steve Scott, are on the Shands board of directors, she said. When the Flor-ida board of governors and the Board of Trustees examined their affiliates, including Shands, they decided the trustees should be included in these 
decisions.
Guzick said he welcomes mem-
bers of the board to collaborate with 
the hospital. 
“They were already involved,” he 
said. “These are just guidelines for additional oversight.”Previously, Fuchs would have to 
refer to the trustees’ chair and vice chair before making a decision, Guz-ick said. This means the process al-ready included some of the trustees’ opinions, but now they’ll officially be in the guidelines. 
He said the debt was unavoidable. 
“In order to grow and thrive and 
invest in the future, all hospitals take 
on debt to expand,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
UF Trustees to help manage Shands’ $800 million debtACSO: Man found with 
24 gallons of moonshineA TOTAL OF 50 STUDENTS 
REGISTERED WITH SG  
PARTIES MONDAY.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
As students continued registering to run for 
Student Senate on Monday, Impact Party had 
a slight increase in applicants while Progress Party saw few students apply.
On the second floor of the Reitz Union, stu-
dents presented members of the parties with their plans to improve UF as elected officials. UF Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs wrote in an email that 50 students qualified Monday, with 46 for Impact and four for Progress. No one has applied as an independent for Spring elections.
On Sunday, 45 students registered with 
Impact while no one qualified with Progress. Even with the small turnout, Progress Presi-dent Casey Witte said he’s confident his party will be successful.
“A lot of the people who have come to Im-pact are referred by senators,” he said. “Our people have come organically.”
Gantt Meredith, a 19-year-old UF mechani-
cal engineering freshman, registered with Progress after seeing a Facebook post from Witte, one of his friends. He said he’s never 
known how to join Student Government. He 
said he plans to ask students which library should be open 24/7, publish the survey’s re-sults and make SG more transparent.
“While you think your vote might not mat-
ter, it does,” said Meredith, who wants to run for the College of Engineering seat.
Aaron Gordon, 18, a UF industrial and sys-
tems engineering freshman, said Impact was 
his best option.
Gordon, who applied to run for a sopho-
more seat, said he wants to make flex bucks, 
money on a student’s Gator 1 card allotted for food on campus, usable at off-campus restau-rants located near UF.
“I wanted to make a difference beyond 
community service,” Gordon said.
The last day of interviewing is today from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Student Activities and Involvement office.Race for Senate continues
The decision was made MondayUPCOMING 
CLASSES:
Wednesday: creating a  
      spending plan
Feb. 8: saving money
Feb. 15: creditFeb. 22: the emotional  
     aspect of spending
Edwards
TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatestStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      2-9-17-10-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Greek sandwich
5 Happy
gatherings
10 Baby cow
14 Control for an
equestrian
15 In full view
16 Buckeye State17 Horse feed18 TV’s “The
Practice,” e.g.
20 “Bummer!”22 Ford fiasco23 Provides staff for24 “That makes
sense”
26 Champagne
stopper orpopper
27 Genius Bar pro29 JFK’s successor32 High-card-wins
game
33 Enjoy35 Submitted tax
returns with aclick
38 Door holder’s
witticism
41 Part of Congress
42 Somali-born
supermodel
43 Wide shoe size
44 Frat. counterpart
45 Aid in a felony
47 Traps in an 
attic?
49 Deborah of “The
King and I”
51 Fictional
Hawaiian police
nickname
52 Rage55 Procter &
Gamble laundry
detergent
60 Australia’s
“Sunshine State”
... or where youmight find theends of 18-, 20-, 38- and 55-Across?
62 “Go back”
computer
command
63 Sch. near the
U.S.-Mexico
border
64 Tweak, say65 Raise a big
stink?
66 Pops a question
67 Outlaw chasers68 Hours next to
flight nos.DOWN
1 Branch out
2 “Okey-dokey”3 Second actress
to win an Emmy,Grammy, Oscarand Tony
4 GM system with
an AtYourService
app
5 Helps with the
laundry
6 Happily __ after
7 Maker of the
Genesis gamesystem
8 Like many
Shakespeareplays
9 MLB Cardinal’s
cap letters
10 Lear’s youngest
daughter
11 “I get it” cries
12 Green citrus fruit
13 Baby horse19 Lousy grade21 Sock that covers
the joint it’snamed for
25 Biblical
queendom
26 Pet store
enclosures
27 Ref’s ring decision28 Spine-tingling30 Margarine that
shares its name
with Texas’ state
flower
31 Ballet leaps
32 “Now, where __ I?”
34 “Sadly ... ”
36 Red Sox ballpark
37 Hair coloring
39 Cocktail makers
40 Ambulance fig.
46 S.O.S shelfmate48 Make certain of50 Fish-eating eagle51 Rapper with a
title
52 Poolside shade
53 Pecans and
cashews
54 Nerdy type56 37-Down
containers
57 Singles
58 Binged (on), as
snacks
59 Pans for
potstickers
61 Maple extract
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/31/1701/31/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 31, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/6-2/9 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-6-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Wide receiver recruit James Robinson, one of Florida's top targets heading into National Signing Day, will not be signing with the Gators. For more NSD coverage, see tomorrow's paper. Florida football spring practice date announced
The Gators will start prepping for the 2017 football season on Feb. 28, the 
team announced Monday. Players will then have a week off for spring  break before resuming practice on March 13. The team also announced that Flori-da's Pro Day will take place on March 28. By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Question marks. 
You see a whole lot of them 
when glancing at Florida’s roster. 
And with less than three weeks 
to go until the No. 3 Gators take the ﬁ  eld in their season opener, the team will address those issues in 
practices and scrimmages. 
The most glaring of the uncer-
tainties: the bullpen. 
Led by closer Shaun Anderson 
and his 90-mph cut fastball, UF’s 
bullpen was one of its strongest as-sets in 2016. 
But Florida lost the likes of An-
derson, lefty specialist Kirby Snead and ﬂ  amethrowers Dane Dunning and Scott Moss — a quartet that 
combined for a 1.96 ERA and 212 
strikeouts — to the MLB Draft last 
year.
Yes, relievers like Frank Rubio, 
Nick Horvath and Michael Byrne are returning, but coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan isn’t quite ready to name his go-to guys for the end of 
games. 
“We’ll mix and match. If you 
look back from last year, we didn’t know Shaun Anderson was go-
ing to be our closer,” O’Sullivan said. “But we’ll see. I’m conﬁ  dent enough that we’re gonna be able to 
ﬁ  nd some guys out of the pen that 
are gonna be able to help us.”O’Sullivan has a number of new-
comers at his disposal, including 
hard-throwing left-hander Andrew 
Baker. The freshman, who throws 
from a three-quarter arm slot, will 
likely receive the ﬁ  rst taste of the closer role.
“We’ve got a lot of answers 
to the questions, we think,” O’Sullivan said, “but we’ve still got 
a lot more to go.”
Replacing Pete: a battle for 
ﬁ  rst base
Replacing a position player is 
never easy for a coach.  Notebook: Florida’s bullpen 
one of many uncertainties
Alligator File Photo
Baseball coach Kevin O'Sullivan looks on as his players warm up prior to Florida's 10-4 loss to 
Mississippi State on April 9 at McKethan Stadium. 
IT'S COHEN DOWN
Recently, my 
days have been spent 
scrolling  
through a 
never-ending Twit-ter feed.
That’s how it 
is for most of us. To get the day’s news, most of the world’s internet-savvy consum-
ers aren’t driving or walking to 
a newsstand. We’re going to Twitter. We’re reading updates from around the world, 140 
succinct characters at a time. 
And lately, a lot of Twitter 
has been difficult — even heart-
breaking — to read. It is filled with American immigrants tell-
ing their stories. It is filled with 
videos of protests at airports, in public parks, on college cam-puses and on street corners. It 
is filled with mothers and fa-
thers crying — some out of hap-piness at being reunited with a family member that was direct-ly affected by President Donald 
Trump’s immigration ban, and 
others, in that same situation, out of overwhelming despair, not knowing what their next 
move may be.
But something else was 
nagging me.
After Trump was sworn into 
office, and after the series of protests that ensued, I had one 
recurring thought.
Where do sports fit into this?My first reaction was: No-
where, you idiot. This is no time for games. This is time for politics and protests and his-tory.
And then I saw a Tweet from Pablo Torre, one of my favorite Ameri-can sports writers.
After Trump 
signed an executive order banning trav-el into the United 
States from seven 
select countries, this is what someone publicly wrote to 
Torre: 
“Going back to the Philip-
pines ??? BYE”
Torre responded:“I was actually born in 
America, which is a country that you are too stupid to ever truly understand.”
He was replying to a per-
son who likely stood behind 
the popular Twitter man-
tra: “#StickToSports” — the hashtag hurled as an insult to sports journalists on social me-
dia who dare venture outside 
their realm of expertise to share a thought about the world around them. About the politics of the day. About opinions they 
hold on the regular news, the 
important news.
Yes, sports are often an es-
cape. And with the political 
landscape of the world today, I 
believe many of us need an es-cape now more than ever. And that’s OK. Healthy, even.
Although I still can’t help but 
feel a twinge of guilt as I sit in an air-conditioned sports arena on the weekends, tweeting up-dates about a college basketball 
game when the next tweet I see 
is one about a family separated by hundreds of miles of ocean because of an executive order Nobody should just stick to sports 
WOMEN'S GOLF
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Obscenities and a folding chair 
with a smiley face on it tossed to 
the ground pierced the otherwise serene mood of the 17th hole at the Florida Challenge on Monday. 
As onlookers watched senior 
Kelly Grassel search for a ball driven into the brush to the left of the par-3 hole, Grassel made the tough choice to take the 2-stroke penalty and replay the hole from the tee, trekking back up steep 
hills. 
The scene frustrated one fan 
so much that he threw his yellow 
folding chair.
But despite the outburst, the 
Gators dominated at Black Dia-mond Ranch in Lecanto on Mon-day, earning a 12-stroke win over rival Florida State and the rest of the ﬁ  eld as a team in the Florida Challenge. Individually, three 
Gators tied for ﬁ  rst place.
However, the team got off to a 
tough start. 
Elin Esborn, a freshman from 
Sweden, was taken out of the 
tournament due to an injured right wrist at the last minute. In her place, fellow freshman Carlot-ta Ricolﬁ  , a member of the Italian National Team, got the nod from coach Emily Glaser.
Ricolﬁ   did not disappoint.After a difﬁ  cult start to her 
day, she posted four birdies on the back nine, giving her the lift she needed to claim a share of top honors individually — along with 
two of her teammates.
“I think that the second 18, I 
played better, but I also knew where the ﬂ  ag was, and I knew 
the greens better,” Ricolﬁ   said. 
Ricolﬁ   was not alone in provid-
ing some freshman heroics. Marta 
Perez, a member of the Spanish 
 Golf balls, furniture ﬂ  y in Florida's season-opening win  SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 14
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbNational Team, shot a combined 
4 under in the second half of the 36-hole tournament, never miss-ing a putt for par in that span.
“The greens are pretty dif-
ﬁ  cult here, and knowing where the pin was and where to hit it to be in a good spot helped me a little bit,” Perez said. “Helped me a lot, I think.”
Reigning SEC Champion 
Maria Torres rounded out the trio of Gators who tied for the win, leading the team with ﬁ  ve 
birdies in the second round. 
But the Gators were not with-
out fault on the day. Grassel ﬁ  n-
ished off the ﬁ  rst round with a double-bogie on the 17th hole and a bogie on the 18th.
On the 17th hole, she drove 
her ball into a brushy area off to the left side of the hole and 
could not ﬁ  nd it, leading to the furniture being assaulted.
“I deﬁ  nitely had a rough 
stretch in the middle, and it can be hard not to wall up in that 
and be like, ‘What the heck is going on?’” Grassel said. “I was able to get it back to where it wasn’t a terrible round. I’m just really glad that my team came through.” 
Glaser, meanwhile, felt that 
despite Grassel's struggles, there 
were plenty of opportunities to 
learn in the dominant win. 
“I thought we got off to a 
slow start in the morning,” Gla-ser said. “I saw some, what we would call "unforced errors" and mental mistakes. But we saw a lot of improvement in the afternoon, and that’s the posi-
tive to take away.”
The Gators tee off next on Feb. 
12 in Palos Verdes, California.
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
signed by our president.
And then I take a look at sports 
Twitter, gently dipping its feet into 
the untamed waters of politics, using 
their platforms for good, to spur conversation and spread opinions. 
Golden State Warriors head 
coach Steve Kerr has tweeted 11 times in the last three days, and all have been about the immigration ban. Brooklyn Nets point guard Jer-emy Lin, former NBA player Nazr 
Mohammed, British Olympic track 
athlete Mo Farah 
and others have all shared their 
thoughts on the im-
migration ban on Twitter.
And then there 
are the prominent sports writers, the 
ones who aren’t just sticking to sports. Zach Lowe, Sarah Spain, 
Howard Beck, Jemele Hill, Torre 
and many others.
And so, just like Torre did, I urge 
all sports journalists and reporters 
and fans: Don’t stick to sports.
Embrace today’s problems and 
start a discussion. If you have an 
opinion, share it. If you see some-thing unjust, say so.
Yes, sports can be used as an 
effective escape. But then they’re over, and the sobering reality of the world hits you. There will be no droning echoes of a shot clock buzzer or a trophy ceremony to sig-
nal the end. It will only continue un-
til our problems are solved.
So, please, escape into sports. But don’t forget to return.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. His 
column appears on Tuesdays. Con-
tact him at icohen@alligator.org and 
follow him on Twitter @icohenb COLUMN,  from pg.13
T orre
Alligator File Photo
Kelly Grassel lines up a shot during the 2015 SunTrust Gator 
Invitational at UF's Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
GOLF,  from pg.13Three Gators tied for the individual win  
It’s an even tougher task when 
said position player is your best 
hitter.
I’m talking, of course, about 
ﬁ  rst baseman Peter Alonso, who led the Gators in nearly every of-fensive category last season. 
Alonso’s .374 average, 14 
home runs, 18 doubles and 
60 RBIs were all team-highs. 
Teammates and coaches also valued his underrated defensive 
abilities around the bag. 
But UF now has to ﬁ  ll the 
hole left by him after the New 
York Mets took him in the second round of the draft. 
As of now, junior JJ Schwarz 
is the clear favorite to slide from 
catcher and man ﬁ  rst base. But 
O’Sullivan also has options 
in junior Christian Hicks and 
freshmen Keenan Bell and Garrett 
Milchin.
“I think all four of them are 
good enough defensively that it will probably come down to the 
bat,” O’Sullivan said. “We’re cer-tainly not going to sacriﬁ  ce any-thing defensively.”
Starting pitchers need to 
step up
 Florida’s ace, Alex Faedo, is 
set to start Friday nights. 
There should be no hiccups 
there. 
But where there might be un-
easiness is in Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar, the team’s other 
two starting pitchers.
The pair of talented tossers 
compiled decent freshmen cam-paigns last year. Kowar ﬁ  nished 
with a 3.37 ERA, while Singer trailed with a high 4.95 ERA. 
But SEC play wasn’t kind to 
the two, who combined to al-low 20 earned runs in just 16.2 
innings, most of which came in 
Singer’s 15 frames. 
Kowar and Singer certainly have the stuff — electric mid-
90s fastballs and devastating off-
speed pitches — to compete in the 
SEC. But only time will tell if they 
can put it together and replace 
Logan Shore (second in UF his-
tory with 30 career wins) and A.J. 
Puk (6th overall pick in 2016 MLB 
Draft and strikeout machine). 
Expect O’Sullivan to keep 
a short leash on his talented sophomores. 
“Well those guys, they need to 
pitch good,” O’Sullivan said. “…I 
respect them, and I expect them 
to pitch as well as anyone we’ve 
had here.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org NOTEBOOK,  from pg.13Alex Faedo will open as UF 's Friday night starterBy Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
As FIU’s Andrea Lazaro let out 
another chilling shriek, all eyes 
turned to center court. Lazaro and Belinda Woolcock began a tiebreaker match, going back and 
forth repeatedly — four all, five 
all, six all. Just as Woolcock was about to serve another game point, the match ended and the game was 
called. And while Florida blanked 
FIU 4-0 on Sunday to win the ITA 
Kick-Off Championship, it was this 
kind of tough, competitive play that coach Roland Thornqvist was particularly excited to see. 
“Something I was happy with is 
that we had to go deep in some sets on almost every court,” Thornqvist said. “That’s exactly what we need with our trip coming up to 
California.”
The Gators (2-0) will now focus 
their attention toward this weekend 
as they prepare to play No. 18 Southern California on Friday and No. 3 Pepperdine on Saturday. Florida plans to take what it learned from the grueling match on Sunday and use it as a point of emphasis 
in practice this week before leaving 
for California on Wednesday. 
“We’re going to have our hands 
full both days, so you need to feel like you’re sort of in the fight, if you will. And FIU really made us feel like that after (Sunday’s) match,” Thornqvist said.
The Gators will continue to use 
their depth as an asset in practice, competing with each other routinely to help determine a lineup, acquire new skills and prepare to compete 
against some of the top players in 
the country. 
“When we practice against our 
teammates, you almost feel like your teammates are better than some of the people you’re going to go out and play. I just really love that,” freshman Ingrid Neel said. “We practice super hard, and we 
want to win, and we just want to 
make each other better. That’ll pay dividends in the end.”
Woolcock said that her 
teammates approach these internal competitions with respect for each other, aiming to help one another improve their play. It’s this Florida-first mentality that Thornqvist is 
happy with, especially this early in 
the season.
“From what I saw this weekend, 
it was a lot of unselfish behavior, a lot of putting Florida first, and that’s really neat,” he said. “A bunch of young women coming together and playing for something greater than themselves, and I’m 
hoping that that’s going to translate 
into a formidable team down the road.”
Florida strives to continue its proficient start to the season this weekend in California before heading to the National Team Indoor Championships Feb. 10-13. Despite the challenges ahead, the Gators are optimistic about their team. 
“I think we’re pretty confident 
going in there,” Thornqvist said, “feeling like we have a good product when we travel, and we’re going to give them hell.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Every single day before practice, 
each member of the Florida wom-en’s basketball team takes a moment to reflect on what they’re thankful 
for and writes it down on a piece of 
paper.
Typically, players have the 
option to keep what they write to themselves, but at a recent practice, freshman guard Delicia Washington announced that she wanted to share her note with the rest of her teammates and coaches.
“I’m grateful for Ronni 
(Williams),” coach Amanda Butler recalled Washington saying.
Williams, the SEC’s top scorer 
and lone fourth-year senior at UF, has served as a mentor to the young-er players in her program all season.
She’s tutored underclassmen like 
Washington in the ways of the game 
and taught them the ins and outs of how to be a college athlete. She’s 
also set an example on the court, fre-quently sacrificing her body on dives 
for loose balls and drawn charges.
“If you want to be a great player 
who’s also a great teammate and 
a great leader, that’s what it looks like,” Butler said of Williams.
However, when the Gators took 
the floor at Memorial Gymnasium on Sunday afternoon to face Vanderbilt, Williams not only earned respect 
and admiration from the members of her team. She earned it from the rest 
of her conference as well.
The Daytona Beach native 
notched a career-high 43 points against the Commodores, including 33 in the second half, to set the mark for highest scoring total from an SEC player this season.
Williams’ offensive outburst was 
led by an efficient shooting day from the floor, knocking down 14-of-23 attempts from the field and 15-of-17 
attempts from the free-throw line.
She stuffed the stat sheet in other 
categories as well, pulling down 
14 rebounds, nabbing four steals and dishing out three assists on the way to sealing Florida’s second conference win of 2017.
“Ronni’s performance was just 
inspiring and amazing, and it was 
just really fun to be part of,” Butler 
said. “Her teammates were giving her the ball right where she wanted it, and then she was answering the call it seemed like every single time.”
Williams had stretches against 
Vanderbilt where she appeared un-stoppable. The senior pushed the tempo in the first quarter, convert-
ing on two fastbreak layups and a 
jumper to give UF an 11-point lead after the opening 10 minutes.
Williams then continued her hot 
start into the second half, knock-ing down four consecutive shots at the beginning of the third quarter to boost UF’s advantage up to 14 points.
“There was an element of ‘I 
don’t have much to do here,’” Butler said. “I just kind of got to figure out what’s the next play call where we get Ronni a touch. She was so au-tomatic.”
Williams’ outing on Sunday also 
placed her third all-time in Gator history for the most points scored in a game, falling behind only Quien-tella Bonner, who scored 45 on Jan. 22, 1977, and Merlakia Jones, who scored 44 on Jan. 25, 1995.
While Butler is proud of the re-
cord-setting performance her senior had over the weekend, she holds 
Williams’ leadership this season in 
just as high a regard, looking no fur-ther than the declaration by Wash-ington that she was most thankful for her fellow teammate.
“I don’t think you can have a 
higher compliment than a freshman recognizing you that way,” Butler said.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams dribbles toward the rim in UF’s loss to T ennessee on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. 
Williams scored a career-high 43 points in Florida’s 93-73 win against Vanderbilt on Sunday. 
Alligator File Photo
UF women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist smiles during introductions prior to Florida’s win over USF on Jan. 27, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
Gators ‘going to give them hell’ in California tournament
UF women’s basketball team ‘grateful’ for Ronni Williams
Florida Women’s Basketball 
Top Single-Game Scoring 
Performances
Quientella Bonner – 45 points on 
Jan. 22, 1977 vs. Chattanooga
Merlakia Jones – 44 points on Jan. 
25, 1995 vs. T exas
*Ronni Williams – 43 points on 
Jan. 29, 2017 vs. Vanderbilt
 
*Williams also totaled 14 rebounds, 
four steals and three assists on Sunday against the Commodores.16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2017
