IT HOUSES THE AFRICAN 
AMERICAN STUDIES 
DEPARTMENT AND THE CENTER 
FOR JEWISH STUDIES.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Sharon Burney saw her ofﬁ  ce 
building’s sign uprooted Wednesday, she 
knew it wasn’t an accident.
Around 8:30 a.m., the program assistant for African American Studies walked up to her ofﬁ  ce in Walker Hall, stopping when she saw the building’s sign knocked over. The blue sign advertises Walker as the home of 
UF’s African American Studies department, 
the Center for Jewish Studies, the Humani-ties and the Public Sphere and the Ofﬁ  ce of Research.
The sign, Burney said, was too far from 
the curb for it to have been hit by a car. 
She called it was an act of vandalism.“With the recent incidents all mounting 
up that we’ve had week after week after week on this campus that has gone unrec-ognized as the hate that they are, I’m con-cerned for my safety, the safety of the faculty and the students that come in this ofﬁ  ce,” 
Burney said.
Burney immediately called University Po-
lice to report the issue. Shortly after, ofﬁ  cers 
put the sign back in place, but Burney said they didn’t take the issue seriously, treating it as a “drunken joke.” 
UPD Maj. Brad Barber said ofﬁ  cers took 
a report with information of the incident. At about 3:30 p.m., UPD’s Twitter account posted a message asking for tips.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote in 
an email that police have increased patrols around Walker Hall in response.
“This incident is concerning because of 
an increase in hateful speech directed at cer-tain races and religions on campus,” Sikes said. “Even more concerning is that some of our students, faculty and staff feel unsafe when we strive to create a welcoming, inclu-sive campus for everyone.”We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 109 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
Florida plays Tennessee tonight
The Gators are looking to ﬁ  nish strong in SEC 
play, pg. 14
Search continues for teenage plane passenger
He was reported missing on Feb. 12, pg. 4
ACSO: alleged bank thief plotted escape
There were holes found under his mattress, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Two protesters climbed into 
the 3-foot-wide entrance of the Sa-bal Trail pipeline early Wednesday morning, remaining for about six hours.
At about 7:32 a.m., the Marion 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce responded to a call that protesters attached them-selves to the inside of the pipe at 12500 SW State Road 200, said Lau-ren Lettelier, an MCSO spokesper-son. They heard a man and woman talking inside the pipe and told them to come out. Protests have erupted across North Central Florida since plans became public about the Sabal Trail, a 515-mile natural-gas pipeline planned to run through Alabama, Georgia and Florida,  including Ala-chua County.
Nicholas Rasmussen Segal-
Wright, 25, and Karrie Kay Ford, 29, refused to stop their protest, and continued to post videos and photos from inside the pipe, according to their arrest reports. 
“We are locking down and not 
going anywhere,” Ford said in a video. 
Outside, about 17 protesters held up a banner that said, “Solar power not pipelines.”
One of the protesters standing in 
the rain was Taylor Ashley Crowe from Jacksonville. 
“They are going at incredibly 
high speed to get this pipeline built,” she said. “It will make our drinking water not viable.”
Fireﬁ  ghters pulled Segal-Wright 
out at about 1:06 p.m., according to an MCSO press release. Less than an hour later, Ford was pulled from the pipe.
Both protesters were arrested on 
charges including trespassing, larce-ny and damage of property. Authori-ties took them to the Marion County Jail, where as of press time Segal-Wright is being held on a $9,000 bond, and Ford is being held on a $10,000 bond. 
 Two protesters lodge themselves into Sabal Trail pipelineONE INDEPENDENT 
AND ONE WRITE-IN 
CANDIDATE WON.
By Paige Fry and                     
Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writers 
All 11 proposed amendments 
failed to pass during the Student Government elections Wednesday night as Impact Party claimed the executive ticket and all but two Senate seats.
The majority of Impact Party 
members arrived at the Reitz Union Breezeway shortly after 9:30 p.m. chanting, “I-M-P-A-C-T. Impact is for you and me.” 
UF Supervisor of Elections Eric 
Hobbs announced the results at about 10 p.m. Student Body presi-dential candidate Smith Meyers, vice presidential candidate Mario Agosto and treasurer candidate Revel Lubin, who all ran unop-posed, won their positions.
In total, 6,869 students voted, 
with 4,482 ballots cast Tuesday and 2,387 cast Wednesday, Hobbs said. In Spring 2016, 10, 694 stu-
dents voted, when Access Party ran 
an executive ticket against Impact.
With Impact not running a den-
tistry candidate, one write-in can-didate, Galia Fakhri-Medrano, won 
with two votes, leaving Impact 
with 48 Student Senate seats. 
Independent candidate Pulkit 
Kumar Dhir, one of three, won one of 10 graduate Senate seats.
Kumar Dhir, who received the 
second highest number of votes for 
the graduate seats, said he wasn’t 
able to attend the announcement 
because he was working on a 
homework assignment.
“I’m excited, happy,” Kumar 
Dhir said. “It will deﬁ  nitely be hard 
because the majority of the people 
are Impact, but I look forward to 
pushing my ideas and having prop-
er debates.”
Last Spring, students approved 
an amendment to allow online vot-
ing. But in Summer, SG’s Supreme 
Court overturned the amendment, 
along with three others. They were 
voted on again this election.  Online voting fails, Impact sweeps executive ticket, Senate
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 4SEE VANDALISM,  PAGE 4 Walker Hall sign found uprooted, raises concerns of safety
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Members of Impact Party walk to the Reitz Union Breezeway chanting “I-M-P-A-C-T. Impact is for you 
and me. ” Impact won 48 Student Senate seats in the Student Government Spring election on Wednesday Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 109
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
HIGH  79° LOW  58°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF School of Theatre and 
Dance presents Dance 2017: 
Rounding the Corner
 UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance is proud to present Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner from today through 
March 2 at the Constans 
Theatre.“Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner” sets the standard for presenting bold and unapologetically original 
contemporary dance. Tickets 
for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF staff and seniors and $13 for 
students. Tickets are available 
through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
EPI Research Day 2017: 
Turning the Tide Against Disease Transmission
Celebrate Emerging Pathogens 
Institute's Research Day to-day in the Cancer/Genetics Research Complex with a pro-fessor of Clinical Medicine at Cornell Medical College 
and director of the Gheskio 
Centres in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. For more information, visit epi.ufl.edu/articles/epi-
research-day-2017.html.
Learning Fair at the UF 
Libraries 
The Smathers Libraries will 
hold a Digital Learning Fair to-
day from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library East, Room 100. Look for the balloons. 
Students can learn about the 
digital resources available in the libraries including 3-D printing, education-testing da-tabases, mapping tools, One 
Button Studio, digital newspa-
pers and more. There will be free snacks and giveaways.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Sumi Ink Club The UF School of Art + Art History is proud to present visiting artist Sumi Ink Club 
today as part of the Spring 
2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series. The lecture series is free and open to the public. 
The lecture will begin at 6 
p.m. in Fine Arts Building B, Room 103. For more informa-tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.‘On the Edge: What Future for 
the African Sahel?’ Join the UF Sahel Research Group for the 2017 Gwendolen 
M. Carter Conference in 
African American Studies from Thursday through Sunday. All panels will be held in the 
Reitz Union, except for the 
first keynote lecture and the opening reception, which will be held at the Harn Museum of Art. Transportation to the 
museum will be provided. The 
conference is free and open to the public, but advance reg-istration is kindly requested. 
For more information, visit 
sahelresearch.africa.ufl.edu. 
The UF Fine Arts College 
Council presents arts exhi-
bition 
The UF Fine Arts College Council is pleased to present the 2016-17 FACC Student 
Juried Arts Exhibition now 
through March 2 in the University Gallery. An open-ing reception will be held Friday from 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. with an awards presenta-
tion at 7 p.m. All events are free and open to the public.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Art Bash Art Bash, the annual celebra-tion of art at UF, will be held Friday from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 
the Fine Arts Plaza and School 
of Art + Art History. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
LGBTQ+ and disability dis-
cussion “Queerness and Disability” is the second installment of UF LGBTQ Affairs’ semester-long 
lunch series. They will look 
to examine and understand the intersection of LGBTQ+ identities and disabilities, and 
they will explore the overlap 
and similarity of oppressions related to different facets of these intersectional identi-ties. This event is open to all 
people, whether you do or 
do not identify as LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will take place in the LGBTQ Affairs 
space in the Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Friday from noon to 1 p.m.GatorNights: Crime Scene 
Investi-GatorsGet your gloves and notepad ready for this Friday’s event, 
GatorNights: Crime Scene 
Investi-Gators. Experience extreme blacklight laser tag, make “blood splatter” art 
and take a pseudo-mug shot. 
As a collaboration with the UF College of Journalism and Communications, this night will feature a conversa-
tion with best-selling authors 
James Patterson and Michael Connelly. GatorNights is al-ways Friday, always free for 
UF students with their Gator 
1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night: 'People You 
May Know'On Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Pride 
Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St., there was a showing of the movie “People You May Know.” Gay 
Movie Night is on the last 
Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 do-
nation is requested to help 
cover the cost of snacks. Like us on  Facebook at facebook.com/135747915702.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
AMNOONPMTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
MARGARITA MADNESS
From left: 21-year-old UF juniors Savannah Broome, Scout Farrow and Amanda Cournoyer, 
enjoy margaritas at Felipe’s T aqueria on National Margarita Day. “This is our first legal National Margarita Day, ” Broome said.
THE TESTS CAME WITH 
FREE CONDOMS 
AND LUBE.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
When Jordan Chediak heard 
there would be free HIV testing at 
Santa Fe College, he didn’t hesitate to stop by.
After learning in his Human 
Sexuality and Culture class that the symptoms of the virus can lie dor-mant in the human body for two to four years, the decision to get tested was obvious, the 22-year-old Sante Fe mechanical engineering student said.
The WellFlorida Council, Inc. of-
fered a free oral HIV swab test, along 
with condoms and lube, to interest-
ed students at Santa Fe on Tuesday afternoon. 
Typically the service costs $30, 
said Dawn Blizzard, a program assis-tant at the Santa Fe Student Health Care Center, but WellFlorida has been coming monthly since Fall, and will continue to do so, to make it more accessible to students.
“People don’t realize how easy 
it is to contract HIV,” Chediak said. “Why wouldn’t you do something that’s free and helpful to know?”
Alachua County has the fourth-
highest rate of sexually transmitted diseases in Florida, according to Al-ligator archives. Blizzard said the ranking hasn’t changed much, if at all, and students should take advan-
tage of the service. 
“The test is painless,” Blizzard 
said. “Students have nothing to be 
scared of.”
Chediak said his results would 
be ready in a few weeks, and he has to pick up his results in person from WellFlorida. 
“Every student should get test-
ed,” he said. “You might not even know you have it and could be spreading it.” Free HIV testing to 
continue at Santa FeThe Associated Press
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — For 
the first time, astronomers have 
discovered seven Earth-size plan-ets orbiting a single nearby star — and these new worlds could hold 
life.
This cluster of planets is less 
than 40 light-years away in the 
constellation Aquarius, according to NASA and the Belgian-led re-search team who announced the discovery Wednesday.
The planets circle tightly around 
a dim dwarf star called Trappist-1, 
barely the size of Jupiter. Three 
are in the so-called habitable zone, the area around a star where water and, possibly life, might exist. The others are right on the doorstep.
Scientists said they need to 
study the atmospheres before de-termining whether these rocky, ter-restrial planets could support some 
sort of life. But it already shows 
just how many Earth-size planets could be out there — especially in a star’s sweet spot, ripe for extra-terrestrial life. 
“We’ve made a crucial step 
toward finding if there is life out there,” said the University of Cam-bridge’s Amaury Triaud, one of the 
researchers.
NASA’s Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator for the sci-
ence mission, said the discovery “gives us a hint that finding a sec-ond Earth is not just a matter of if, but when,” and addresses the age-old question of “Are we alone out there?”
“We’re making a step forward 
with this, a leap forward in fact, toward answering that question,” Zurbuchen said at a news confer-ence.
Last spring, the University of 
Liege’s Michael Gillon and his team reported finding three planets around Trappist-1. Now the count 
is up to seven, and Gillon said there 
could be more. Their latest findings appear in the journal Nature.
Altogether, astronomers have 
confirmed close to 3,600 planets outside our solar system since the 1990s, but barely four dozen are in the potential habitable zone of their stars, and of those, just 18 are 
approximately the size of Earth.
They all appear to be tidally 
locked, which means the same side 
continually faces the star, just like the same side of our moon always faces us. 
Chemical analyses should indi-
cate life with perhaps 99 percent confidence, Gillon noted. But he 
added: “We will never be com-
pletely sure” without going there.4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The search for a 17-year-old boy off the 
coast of Cedar Key will continue Friday as 
Levy County officials look for the remaining passenger of a single-engine airplane that went missing more than a week ago.
Dylan Jerrels, who was on the plane 
with his father and his father’s fiancee, was scheduled to land in Cedar Key for lunch on Feb. 12, but the plane never landed, prompt-ing a 50-hour search led by the Levy County Sheriff’s Office and the U.S. Coast Guard.
The body of Jerrels’ father, 65-year-old 
Jasper Jerrels, was found three days after his plane took off from Brooksville, Florida, and was later reported missing.
On Sunday, officials found the body of 
Jasper Jerrels’ fiancee, Hue Singletary, along with the plane itself, which was mangled, said Lt. Scott Tummond, a spokesperson with the sheriff’s office.
Dangerous weather prevented further search for Jerrel on Wednesday and today, Tummond said, but the search will resume Friday. 
Tummond added that the sheriff’s office 
doesn’t plan on stopping until the teenager is found.
“We were involved from the very begin-
ning in the search process,” Tummond said. “Friday, we are planning to search again.”
Jasper Jerrels’ cousin Judy Bason said 
she saw the plane when it was pulled from the water Monday.“They brought it up on a clam boat,” she 
said. “The plane — there wasn’t much to it.”
Bason said Jerrels’ family is apprecia-
tive of the sheriff’s office for its continuous search for Dylan.
“We’re very hopeful,” she said. “He 
could be up on the shoreline somewhere. They are still looking.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.com
Search continues for missing 17-year-old plane passenger
Seven Earth-size 
worlds found orbiting 
star; could hold life
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Smith Meyers hugs Haley Smith on Wednesday night after Impact Party won 48 Student Senate 
seats in the Student Government election and Meyers became Student Body president.
With 27.41 percent of students voting in favor of 
online voting, 11.56 percent against and 61.03 per-cent abstained, the amendment failed to pass. The UF Supreme Court ruled in Summer that abstained votes, which are neither a yes or a no, must be counted within the voting population against the amendment.  
“With only 27 percent of the Student Body voting 
for online voting, it’s very clear the Student Body does not want it here at UF,” Meyers said.  
Current UF Student Body President Susan Web-
ster said her party absolutely advocated for online voting. 
“It was the Impact Party leadership in the Senate that put it back on the ballot to vote for it,” Webster said. “It will be up to this next group of student lead-ers to figure out what the next steps are.” 
Impact spokesperson Janae Moodie said she 
doesn’t think the unopposed executive ticket attrib-uted to the lower turnout rate. 
“I just believe every vote counts,” Moodie said. The SG and Student Senate Facebook and Twitter 
pages didn’t advertise the election. 
Progress Party president Casey Witte said al-
though all seven Progress candidates lost, the party won’t disappear. 
“We have a lot of work to do,” Witte said. “A lot 
of the Student Body isn’t being listened to when you get down to it. Progress Party wants to give them a voice.”ELECTION,  from pg. 1One write-in candidate won a seat
The possible vandalism of the 
sign was the second incident this 
week, Burney said. On Monday, Tyra Striker, a UF telecommuni-cation freshman, found her Black 
History Month-themed dorm door 
decoration torn down in Beaty Towers East. 
She said the sign was covered 
with images of successful black people like Viola Davis and former  U.S. President Barack Obama.
But Striker, 18, said she won’t 
let someone’s ignorance of hate 
get to her. She put the decorations 
back up Wednesday. 
“You run into people like that 
all the time, it’s just the way you respond to it,” she said. “You can respond to it by being ignorant back or you can respond to it by being the bigger person.”
For Burney, she said UF’s ad-
ministration should issue a zero-tolerance policy for hatred on cam-pus, like the racist writing found in Anderson Hall on Feb. 13. If the writing was directed toward white 
people, she said she thinks a great-
er effort would be made to find the culprit.
“I want them to respond to acts 
against people of color and disen-franchised people the same way they would respond if the person was blonde hair, blue eyes and af-fluential,” Burney said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgVANDALISM,  from pg. 1Students, faculty, feel unsafe
• Referendum 1: Do students 
support fee to fund expansion of 
nighttime safety services, passed 
• Referendum 2 : Do students 
support continued use of block seating at football games, passed 
• Amendment 1 : failed 
• Amendment 2 : failed 
• Amendment 3 : failed• Amendment 4 : failed 
• Amendment 5 : failed 
• Amendment 6 : failed 
• Amendment 7 : failed 
• Amendment 8 : failed  
• Amendment 9 : failed 
• Amendment 10 : failed 
• Amendment 11 : failed HOW STUDENTS VOTED THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
About seven months into his stay 
at the Alachua County Jail, an al-
leged bank thief was caught Tuesday 
plotting an escape, the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce 
said.
Under a mattress, inside William Kyle Rossignol’s cell, deputies found 
holes in a cement block, along with 
a note detailing the intended jail 
break, according to an arrest report. 
“I’m digging through the concrete 
... under my bunk,” the note read, 
according to the report.
His cellmate told deputies Ros-
signol kept a piece of metal in his shoes. This, they believe, is what he 
used to dig through the cement, ac-
cording to the report.
Rossignol, 31, was booked into 
the jail July 26 after an arrest on 
charges of robbing a Wells Fargo 
and attempting to rob a Campus USA 
Credit Union at gun point, according 
to an arrest report and sworn com-plaint ﬁ  led in 
July.
On top of 
charges of grand 
theft, burglary 
and ﬂ  eeing po-
lice, he now faces 
an additional 
accusation: at-
tempted escape 
from a jail.
His current and former cellmates both said they heard him talk about 
a potential escape, according to the 
report.
Rossignol told police the holes 
were there since he moved in and 
denied writing the notes, according 
to the report. He said the notes were 
probably written by someone else in 
the jail.
He currently remains in jail with-
out bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld A c c u s e d  b a n k  t h i e f  a t t e m p t s  j a i l  b r e a k ,  d e p u t i e s  s a y
ACSO found holes under his mattress
Rossignol
THE PROJECT WAS SUPPOSED TO 
BE COMPLETED FEB. 2.
By Bernadette Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Renovations at Alachua County Ani-
mal Services are behind schedule, which 
means less space for incoming animals.
The shelter is improving its kennels, 
but the project is taking longer than ex-pected because of moisture in the walls, 
said Ed Williams, the shelter’s director. 
The budget is about $80,000, and about 
two-thirds of the project is complete.
The project began Dec. 19 and was 
scheduled to finish Feb. 2, according to 
a press release.
Because the project is done in phases, 
the shelter is unable to fill to capacity, 
Williams said.
This winter, the number of animals in the shelter are uncharacteristically high, 
he said. He said it has been difficult to 
keep up with the intake, and too few peo-
ple have been adopting. 
In an attempt to make room, the shel-
ter held a free adoption event Saturday 
where 15 dogs were adopted, Williams 
said. 
“It’s really good for an adoption event 
for just one day, but as director, I wish 
we had more,” he said. “I would’ve liked to see us adopt 50 in one day.”
Susan Clontz, a 63-year-old Gainesville 
resident, adopted a Jack Russell terrier 
mix from the shelter. 
She said Sadie, who is 7 years old, was 
going to be put down before Clontz ad-
opted her. 
Clontz said after her last dog died, she 
felt like something was missing until she 
met Sadie. 
“Sadie has filled that void,” she said.  D e l a y e d  r e n o v a t i o n s  a t  c o u n t y  s h e l t e r  l i m i t  a d o p t i o n sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
All liberals are leeches. They’re lazy, in-
competent and allergic to work. 
Hopefully those first statements 
grabbed your attention. They’re out-landish claims, right? It’s unfair to 
generalize an entire group of people based on a stereotype. Yet, we do it habitually, of-ten regardless of our position on the political spectrum. And there’s one word that acts as an enabler: all. It’s only three, seemingly innocu-
ous letters. But its use has become a crutch in discourse, one that stifles substantive policy discussions and leads to conversations fraught with sweeping gener-alizations.
One recent, glaring example comes to mind. A few 
weeks ago, I was relaxing at my apartment with friends, some of whom are conservative, along with my room-mate and his girlfriend, who are both liberal. Eventually, we started discussing politics, which isn’t out of the or-dinary. These are polarizing times, and it’s hard to shy away from everything that’s happening in the country right now. 
But on this night, the conversation — or lack thereof 
— was brief, not lasting longer than a few minutes. At some point, one conservative friend made a verbal jab at my roommate’s girlfriend by making fun of liberals. In retaliation, plainly annoyed, she dropped the big one: “Well, all conservatives are racist!”
Oh boy. It was only a matter of time before we arrived 
here.
Calling someone a racist is an allegation that should 
not be taken lightly under any circumstances. Yet this 
retort was top of her list; the first in line pulled out of 
her armory of potential accusations. She resorted to it with grace and ease, no need to think twice. But instead of shooting down that initial remark sensibly and accu-rately, she hit the entire room with napalm. The move completely killed any chance of good discourse. The dis-cussion soon fizzled. This incident made me think of how fre-
quently we as a society take this debilitating approach to debate. It is tried and true: Look across the aisle at people standing on the other side and label them as all the same, comprised 
of qualities and beliefs we find reprehensible. 
But simply doing this is lazy and naïve; mis-guided and inane. It brings about lots of shout-ing and name-calling while yielding little prog-ress. 
And it’s made possible by that one, pesky 
three-letter word. It leaves no room for nuance. It doesn’t account for distinction. When we group massive amounts of people under one all-encompassing umbrella, we in-
stantly dehumanize them. It’s much easier to attack an 
ideology we dislike than it is to take the time to listen to the people who support it. Those vitriolic, name-calling ad hominem attacks? It’s an escape route, an easy de-fense mechanism to shut down others without ever hear-ing what they have to say.
Liberals and conservatives are both guilty of this. It 
would do each group some good to look in a mirror. Many liberals, despite often priding themselves on “toler-
ance,” are just as narrow-minded toward opposing view-
points as the conservatives they rail against, as has been evidenced during campus protests against conservative speakers. Likewise, plenty of conservatives are just as sensitive as the liberals they complain about. Look no further than our president, whose face perpetually turns from orange to red after every Saturday Night Live sketch mocking him or his administration.
In this fiercely divided political climate, it is easy to 
dismiss those we perceive as different as being stupid or uninformed. We become entombed in our beliefs and rarely step outside to see what’s going on elsewhere. It starts with a conversation. 
Many people hear, but few actually listen.Brian Lee is a UF English Senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.When discussing politics, avoid generalizing ColumnStudent 
Government has 
only itself to blame
It’s fair to say the outcome of the Student Government Spring elections was known well before they were announced. 
With an uncontested executive ticket, Impact Party 
claimed the Student Body president, vice president and trea-surer positions, along with all but two Student Senate seats. 
With only six races where there was more than just one student running, the story of the elections could have written itself. We wish we could say we were surprised. We weren’t.
But we at the Alligator are not going to take this space and 
time to point out how a one-party system is detrimental to a democratic system. We have harped for far too long on that topic. Instead, we want to discuss online voting and how it met an unnatural death long before it reached the ballot and the stu-dents.
Because even though SG is mandated by the Florida legisla-
ture, it controls a more than $20 million budget, funded by the students of UF. That means they’re using your money to keep you from voting.
Opposers to online voting say that if students are able to 
vote from anywhere — their rooms, their hometowns or even across the world — it would lead to coerced voting. It may lead to groups of students getting together and being told how to vote. But the problem is, that is going to happen, no matter the voting 
system. And for those concerned about the security of online 
voting, it’s already online. When you sat down to vote today, if you did, you sat at a public computer and typed in the same URL as everyone else.
The reason UF needs online voting, other than being the only 
university in the SEC to not have it, is because it would increase voter turnout. Do you truly believe having about 6,869 students showing up to vote, in a population of about 50,000, is good? With a voter turnout of about 13 percent, UF’s voter participation 
trails behind less developed countries including Afghanistan, Po-
land, Nigeria and India. We think it’s pathetic. A university can-not be truly for the students if there is a system in place that does not cater to all.
With UF increasingly admitting more students in Pathway to 
Campus Enrollment (PaCE) and Innovation Academy, two non-traditional programs that have students spend less time on cam-pus, we can only imagine their voices will continue to get shut out in the coming elections. Ultimately, what those students care 
about will not matter. We have stripped away their voices, and 
their vote. And SG has only itself to blame.
Why do we blame SG? For one, the 11 proposed amendments 
on the ballot came as a surprise to us. To make matters worse, anyone glancing at the questions would have to thoroughly read and understand what the questions are asking. And even then, there are still questions. But what’s more, SG did a poor job of advertising the elections. If you went on its Facebook and Twitter accounts, you wouldn’t even know an election had happened. 
Instead of making voting as convenient as possible, some-
how SG made this year’s voting a greater inconvenience than ever. We beg the question: Why are they OK with students be-ing voiceless? Do they care about maintaining their power that much? 
But the reason behind this is moot. The fact is, unless UF’s 
administration is willing to step in and enforce democracy at its core, nothing will change.
It’s great UF. 
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORBrian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
GNV celebrates culture with Chimera Fest
The three-day event will be downtown, pg. 10THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF art school hosts student showcase
It will hold Art Bash on Friday, pg. 9By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Heartwood Soundstage, 
Gainesville’s newest music venue and live recording studio, is set to open this weekend with the Heart-wood Music Festival, a multi-stage, all-ages event that will run from noon to 2 a.m. Saturday. 
Heartwood Music Festival will 
host bands from all around the 
state of Florida, including popular 
locals. Half of the bands will play full sets on an outdoor stage, and the other half will play a short live 
recording session on the Heart-
wood Soundstage, which is locat-
ed indoors. 
The event will also feature food 
trucks, a bounce house, art ven-
dors and art installations. 
Tickets are $10 for students and 
$15 for the general public. Patrons 
can come and go as they please, as re-entry is allowed. 
Dave Melosh, one of the four 
co-owners of Heartwood Sound-stage, said the idea of the new venue came from the idea of hav-ing an audio ﬁ  le listening room in Gainesville. This turned into the concept of having a record-ing space where bands can record music in front of a live audience, which musicians will be able to do at Heartwood Soundstage. 
They have been planning the venue for two years and started renovating the space, which used to host Mirror Image Studios, in 
July 2016. 
“This is a premium facility be-
ing built by the best woodworking 
company in Gainesville,” Melosh said. “It’s going to be a really 
high-end place.” 
The event is being presented 
by Springbok Booking & Media 
and Swamp Records. Melosh said Swamp Records has been a huge 
help in preparation and spreading 
the word about this event. 
“They’re incredible,” Melosh 
said. “That is truly an organiza-tion that there’s no proﬁ  t motive. 
Everyone’s in it because they love music. I think they’ve man-
aged to bridge the gap between 
Gainesville and the University of 
Florida.” 
Christine Long, the events di-
rector of Swamp Records and a 
UF tourism, event and recreation 
management senior, said it made 
sense for the Swamp Records team 
to bring the UF community in. 
“The other owners and Dave 
kind of have the Gainesville com-
munity covered, but they weren’t 
sure how they were going to get students and young people to come,” she said. “We have a pro-motions team, we have 100 peo-ple in Swamp Records, and we 
were like, ‘Oh! We can have our 
promotions people ﬂ  yer for it.’” 
Long said the bands perform-
ing inside will be playing one-song sets, which will be ﬁ  lmed live. 
“You’re not really allowed to 
talk in there,” she said. “It’s an 
immersive experience on the in-
side. Put away your phone, stop talking, just watch the music and 
appreciate the music.”  
Both Melosh and Long said 
they hope Heartwood Sound-
stage will be able to ﬁ  ll a bit of the void that the closing of The Jam, another multi-stage venue in Gainesville, left about a year ago. 
Melosh said although the ven-
ue will be nothing like The Jam 
appearance-wise, he hopes the 
Heartwood Soundstage will cater to a similar crowd. 
“We hope that we have the 
heart of The Jam, where people 
are going because they love the 
music,” he said. 
Blake Briand, the former owner 
of The Jam and a member of the 
band Locochino, which will be 
performing at Heartwood Music Festival, said he too hopes Heart-wood Soundstage will provide 
what The Jam once did. 
“There was deﬁ  nitely a shift in 
the scene once The Jam closed, 
because we were kind of ﬁ  ll-ing a void that other people just 
weren’t,” Briand said. “Heart-
wood is possibly going to pick up 
on some of that.”
Briand said although noth-
ing will ever replace The Jam 
completely, he thinks Heartwood 
Soundstage will be a pseudo-re-
placement, especially because of the outdoor aspect. 
“It’s kind of like getting a new 
pet after the old one dies,” he said. “You don’t name it the same thing, and it never replaces the unique love you had before, but it still ﬁ  lls up that place in your heart.”Live recording studio, music venue to debut with festival
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Heartwood Soundstage, a new music venue and live recording studio, will open this weekend with its own music festival downtown at 619 S. Main St. Tickets are $10 for students and $15 for the general public, and the festival will run from noon to 2 a.m. on Saturday. 
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer 
The Varsity Vocals International 
Championship of Collegiate A Cap-
pella South Quarterﬁ  nal will take place in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday at 7 
p.m., with the event wrapping at 11 
p.m.
Of the 10 groups competing, 
four are from UF. The top two plac-ing groups from quarterﬁ  nals will advance to the ICCA South Semiﬁ  -nal at the University of Georgia on March 11. 
Alex Dluzneski, the president of 
No Southern Accent, one of the UF groups competing Saturday, likened the event to “Pitch Perfect,” a ﬁ  lm that follows collegiate a cappella groups. Each group has 12 minutes to 
present an arrangement of songs performed without instrumental ac-companiment and paired to chore-ography. 
Sometimes a group’s set has an 
overarching story to be told through song, and sometimes it’s a random assortment of tunes put together, he said. 
Preparation is a key factor in ar-
ranging their performance, Dluznes-ki said. Groups practice for months to master the songs and choreogra-phy, and he said some rehearse for 
up to 12 hours a week. 
“I’m just looking forward to 
unveiling what we have to offer,” 
said Dluzneski, a 19-year-old UF biomedical engineering sophomore. “It’s been a lot of time in the mak-ing, and we’ve been working very, very hard, so I’ll be proud of the end result.”
Standing Room Only, another 
UF a cappella group competing, looks at the event as a growing ex-
perience. They aren’t a highly com-
petitive group, president Elise Rose said.
Rose described their sound as a 
“jazz pop fusion.” They pick songs to perform that will make them-selves stand out and engage the au-dience.  
“We’re probably looking for-
ward most for the opportunity to put ourselves out there,” said Rose, a 22-year-old UF advertising senior. “We are just more about the fun and music-making aspect.” 
Gestalt A Cappella, UF’s new-est a cappella group, is determined to give this competition their all,  member Shane Pinak said.
“We work extremely hard to cre-
ate meaningful pieces of art and to display it at a competitive level,” 
the 20-year-old UF advertising soph-
omore said. 
The name of their group, Gestalt, 
comes from the idea that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, he said. They use this theory when performing together.
“The idea is to use dynamic 
songs and arrangements that com-
pliment the mantra of Gestalt,” 
Pinak said. 
Tone Def, another competing 
coed a cappella group at UF, ﬁ  nds their soloists to be among their greatest assets when performing, said Erika Boone, the public rela-tions director. 
“When picking a set, you want 
to pick a variety of songs to keep the set interesting, but also ﬁ  nd songs that our group could really rock,” 
said the 22-year-old UF microbiol-
ogy and cell science and behavioral and cognitive neuroscience senior. 
Tone Def formed four years ago, 
and they’ve been able to compete for the past three years. 
“Each year, our group greatly 
improves and grows in ways we didn’t know possible,” Boone said.
General admission tickets are 
available online at UF’s Performing Arts’ website. Tickets are $25 for the general public, and $18 for UF and non-UF students and children aged 18 and under.
UF to host collegiate a cappella regional quarterﬁ  nals
MUSIC8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
College students love pizza. 
We’ve all survived off Domino’s  
pizza leftovers more times than we’d like to admit. Instead of resort-ing to eating pizza in its less perfect 
form, i.e. the soggy freezer-burnt va-
riety or a cold lunchable, check out these local, fresh options next time you get a carb craving.
1. Leonardo’s By the SliceLeonardo’s By the Slice is a culi-
nary experience. For just under $5, you can enjoy a large and gooey piece of thin or thick pie.
Leonardo’s is a Gainesville favor-
ite, and with other favorites closing (R.I.P. Burrito Bros.), you should savor your “by the slice” experience while you still can. When you walk through the front door, located right on West University Avenue, you’re greeted by more than 10 appetizing pies staring at you from behind the front counter. Pick your slice, order a quarter dozen rolls and take a seat.
The atmosphere inside the res-
taurant is an added bonus to the 
cheap, yet ﬁ  lling, food. 
2. Dough Religion Pizza Bar
Not many people know that 
Dough Religion Pizza Bar isn’t a chain, it’s just a cool place that chalks out assembly-line style pizza in under ﬁ  ve minutes. They roll out the personal pies by hand, and their tomato sauce tastes like tomatoes, 
not tomato-inspired.
For less than $10, you can cus-
tomize your very own pie. The best 
part of Dough Religion is the endless assortment of fresh ingredients.
Instead of choosing one of their 
pre-made options, let your wild side out and pile the toppings on. You’ll be able to say you made it your-self, because picking the toppings counts, right?
3. Humble Wood FireThis food truck is a force to be 
reckoned with. If you’re ever out 
and about at various local events 
like the farmers market and run into Humble Wood Fire, make sure to stop and grab a pie.
The pizza is cooked in, you 
guessed it, a wood ﬁ  re oven. This means it will be on the thinner, crunchier side of the crust spectrum, but there’s nothing wrong with that. 
It tastes kind of like campﬁ  re food 
but way, way better. The pizza mas-ters spin the dough right in front of your face, using local and organic ingredients. 
Have a dietary restriction or pref-
erence that usually puts a damper on your pizza dreams? Vegan and gluten friends, don’t worry. Humble Wood Fire is happy to accommodate all restrictions and preferences.
4. Italian Gator Pizza by the 
Slice
Credit has to be given where it’s 
due. Italian Gator Pizza by the Slice, reincarnated from the dead, still manages to never disappoint.
If you’re like the vast majority of 
college students, you’ve ended up here in the wee hours of the night.Italian Gator is paper plate heaven. Not only is it dirt cheap, but the slic-es are the size of your head. Grab 
as many parm packets as you can at 
the front counter and ﬁ  nd a curb to sit down on, because air-condition-ing and inside dining is for wimps.
Fold the pizza like a hot dog and 
dig in. You need the calories after a long night at Midtown.5. Blue Highway, a pizzeriaAlthough Blue Highway, a pizze-
ria that isn’t in Gainesville, it’s more than worth the trek to the original Micanopy, Ocala or trendy Tioga lo-cations.
Blue Highway is a local favorite, 
and I mean a real local’s favorite. Ask anyone who lives in Alachua County, and he or she will sing praises about this place.
The small town ambiance is best 
enjoyed with a brew or two, be-cause the wait for a pie can be 30 to 45 minutes.
Once you receive your pie, the 
pilgrimage out of town and wait will seem like little effort for this perfect pizza. It manages to encompass ev-erything one can love about pizza: crunchiness, doughiness, ﬂ  akiness, cheesiness, ﬂ  avor and that extra oomph, all into one pie.
GNV’s ﬁ  ve best pizza joints: Leo’s, Dough Religion, moreTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
This Friday, the High Dive 
will be hosting a free Art Attack 
event as part of Gainesville’s monthly artwalk. The event will run from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. 
and is open to the public. Twenty 
Gainesville artists will be show-ing and selling their work at this month’s Art Attack, and they will be accompanied by four local musicians performing laid-back, acoustic sets.
Art Attack is one of several 
free events associated with Art-
walk Gainesville, a free monthly 
assembly of open gallery spaces and live music taking place in the downtown area. Artwalk Gainesville gives local artists, musicians and vendors venues to show and sell their work with no 
entry fees. 
Gainesville resident Alix 
Mathia was involved with Art-
walk Gainesville in the past, us-ing it as an opportunity to sell jewelry she makes with recycled materials. However, this Friday at Art Attack she will be display-ing her own original paintings 
at an artwalk event for the ﬁ  rst 
time.
“This is not my ﬁ  rst event 
with the Gainesville artwalk, but it is my ﬁ  rst time showing my original art and paintings,” the 25-year-old said. “I would de-scribe my art as emotional, color-ful and personal. I consider this my heart’s work.”
Four Gainesville-based musi-
cians will be performing at the 
Art Attack event. Gainesville 
indie rhythm and blues singer Tamira Rae, who performs un-der the stage name Rayya, will be making her debut artwalk ap-pearance Friday.
“This will be my ﬁ  rst artwalk 
performance,” Rae said. “It will be a laid back show ﬁ  lled with 
melodic tunes that are refreshing, 
intimate, and passionate.”
There is no cover fee to enter 
the venue, as is the case with all other Artwalk Gainesville-asso-ciated events going on Friday. More information on the Artwalk Gainesville as a whole can be found at artwalkgainesville.com.
High Dive to host Art Attack
LOCAL
By Emma Witmer 
Avenue Writer
UF’s School of Art + Art History is 
hosting its annual student showcase event, Art Bash, Friday evening.
Art Bash will run from 5 p.m. to 
9 p.m., and it’s free and open to the 
public. The event will feature a wide 
variety of visual arts from UF students, faculty and local high-school artists, as well as special guests and live music. 
There is a great deal of chatter 
among student artists as they work to put the ﬁ  nishing touches on their piec-es for Friday night, said Sierra Marie Labra, a UF art freshman with a spe-
cialization in painting.
Labra ,18,  said she ﬁ  rst heard about 
Art Bash through her sculpture club 
and plans to attend the event.
“Honestly, I’m really excited for ev-
eryone out in the community to come in and see what UF is doing with art,” Labra said.
Art Bash offers something new 
each year, as art and art research is al-
ways changing, said Lisa Iglesias, the 
co-chair of the Art Bash committee. This year, the event will display art-work from P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School and Oak Hall School. This is just one of the many ways the Alachua County community has be-come involved in Art Bash.
“It’s a celebratory event,” the as-
sistant professor said. “It’s about cel-ebrating the breadth of disciplines at the college of art and art history. It’s really exciting to have a day where we have an open house event with the public.”
Additionally, Sumi Ink Club will be 
holding an artist talk and participatory workshop thanks to donations from 
School of Art + Art History alumnus 
Jean Koivu, her husband David and by the UF Art Education program.UF highlights student art10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
In ancient Greek mythology, 
the Chimera was a powerful, ﬁ  re-
breathing female beast composed of parts from more than one ani-mal. Joseph Floyd, the executive 
director for Active Streets Alli-
ance, referenced the hybrid crea-ture when describing the event it was named after.
“Chimera Fest, in many re-
spects, is the three-headed crea-ture of Greek lore,” Floyd said. “The weekend is a reimagining of how truly local events and orga-
nizations can come together and 
strengthen the efforts of all part-nering events.”
Chimera Fest is a three-day 
event celebrating the convergence of creativity, innovation and art within the Gainesville community, and it’s hosted by Future Music Makers, Heartwood Soundstage 
and Active Streets Alliance. 
The festival, located in the 
SoMa District, will include the 
Second Annual Menagerie in Mo-tion Kinetic Derby, the ﬁ  rst North Florida opening of the Heartwood Music Festival and the Fourth An-nual Active Streets Gainesville event.
Floyd said the Active Streets 
Gainesville event highlights his organization’s primary objective, which is building a community around and in our streets. 
The event, which Floyd said 
reached 10,000 attendees last year, will include three stages of live music curated by Future Mu-
sic Makers, a food truck rally and 
more than 50 local businesses that all share the same purpose. 
“The goal of the event is to 
highlight a shared public space, the road, in an alternative use while building the community,”  Floyd said. “The businesses have 
agreed to join in a unique effort 
for the day to meet on the street as equals.” 
Floyd said Active Streets Alli-
ance is continuing to grow, and he conﬁ  rmed that Chimera Fest will be expanding into 2021.
“I became involved in the or-
ganization to create opportuni-
ties for others to experience the 
Gainesville that I have,” Floyd said. “It’s an opportunity to give back and to build and grow on the things that make Gainesville and Alachua County such a special place.”
Fae Nageon de Lestang, the 
president and co-founder of Future 
Music Makers, said she worked 
with Floyd and Active Streets Al-liance many times in the past, and it was a conversation the two of them had that inspired Chimera Fest.
“We were talking about the dif-
ference between making a place into the kind of state that you 
want to live in versus moving 
somewhere else,” Nageon de Les-tang said. “We thought the best way to make it all happen would be to throw all these events and partner with all these people who are helping to build our commu-nity into a more vibrant, cultural center and to have us all partici-
pate in a whole weekend versus 
competing with each other to throw different events.” 
She, along with ﬁ  ve other musi-
cians, started the nonproﬁ  t Future Music Makers from the ground up, with the goal of providing children with the resources and skills to grow and learn through music. 
“Whether or not you end up being a musician, it doesn’t mat-ter,” Nageon de Lestang said. “It’s about having the chance to try it.”
She said the organization pro-
vides children with a scholarship to study and receive private in-struction in the instrument of their choice for six months. Afterward, those children will have a chance to ﬁ  lm a music video playing their 
instrument. Future Music Makers 
is committed to giving out one scholarship every month in 2017. 
“We all had the chance to have a mentor and to get to have private lessons, and that has been the most powerful and education-
al experiences of my life,” Nageon 
de Lestang said. “Having some-body that’s on your side, that’s there to push you and help you grow, to show you a side of some-thing that you wouldn’t be able to experience otherwise is why I think it’s so important for us to be able to provide a mentorship for 
children with people who are ac-
tually musicians.” 
Heartwood Soundstage will 
open its doors for the ﬁ  rst time Saturday as 24 local bands will play at the ﬁ  rst annual Heartwood Music Festival. For every ticket spent at the concert, Heartwood will donate a dollar to the Future 
Music Makers’ scholarship.  
Nageon de Lestang said the 
preparation of the event has been 
beneﬁ  cial for her, as it was a priv-ilege to interact and work with people who are working so hard to build Gainesville as a cultural center. 
“We have so many partners 
that are helping to put this event on, amazing organizations and people, that have worked really hard to make this happen, and all of them are trying to work towards making Gainesville a better place to live,” she said. “Our goal is for people to experience something that they didn’t realize was avail-
able in their town and to hopefully 
feel passionate enough about it to get involved themselves.”
The festival’s events will be 
spread throughout the weekend, with the Second Annual Menager-ie in Motion Kinetic Derby on Fri-day and Saturday, the Heartwood Music festival on Saturday and 
Active Streets Alliance on Sunday.
Chimera Fest celebrates Gainesville’s local art and culture
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
Chimera Fest, a three-day event taking over the SoMa District, 
will include live music, 50 local vendors and food trucks.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Assessment Writers/Editors
Progress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Sun Country Sports Center currently has 
openings for swim instructors who love work-ing with children. Must be friendly, enthusias -
tic, reliable, and self-motivated. Possibility of add'l hours in other depts.Apply at suncountrysports.com/jobs     2-24-17-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
HPM at UF Health/Shands Hospital is seek-ing valet attendants. Must be able to drive a manual/stick shift, have a valid driver's license, and clean driving history (≤ 6pts in 3 yrs). Call (352) 594-6231 or E-Mail SWilliams@717parking.com     2-27-17-5-14
part time computer programmerwork your hours knowledge of phpjava helpful resume w/experiencetraining, and salary expectedemail coproassoc@bellsouth.net     2-28-17-5-14● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Designated drivers are the greatestWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Retired machinist, movie prop maker, artifi-
cer seeks artist / sculpter to share studio in Cross Creek. No cost. I would like company & to help each other with art. Contact Swamp Wizard 352-466-0115, cromt@bellsouth.net    2-27-17-5-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
ACROSS
1 Oldest U.S. capital
8 Spade creator
15 Melodic
movements
16 Ancient region
now part of
France
17 Is serious
18 Impulse
conductors
19 Much toothpaste
20 U.S. neighbor21 “Picnic” dramatist
22 Letter between
November and
Papa
25 Singer’s warm-up
syllables
26 Indy-winning
family name
27 Swears by
29 66, e.g.: Abbr.
30 Metaphor for jobs31 Lav, in London32 Singer Kitt36 “... __ quit!”37 Kind of bath39 “Just like that!”40 Sign-off words42 Director Lupino43 Corny state?
44 MSN, for one
45 “I’m good”47 Jazzy Jones50 Miracle Mets
manager Hodges
51 Frozen fruit-
flavored drinks
52 Slanted piece
53 Sounds at spas54 2017 Rock and
Roll Hall of Fameinductee
55 Enchant57 Blog comment
format usually
interpreted as theword spelled byeight aptly circledpuzzle letters
61 Norse explorer
62 Daughter of
Agamemnon
63 End of a baseball
game, usually
64 Like siblings
DOWN
1 __ Adams
2 “Who __ you
kidding?”
3 Actress Vardalos4 Polynesian
archipelagonatives5 State as fact
6 Impede, as a plot
7 Guinness suffix
8 __ Her Way
9 “A Clockwork
Orange” narrator
10 2015 Big Ten
champs: Abbr.
11 Siren’s victim
12 Waist-length
jackets
13 Faint trace
14 Trademarked
weapon
20 One-piece
beachwear
22 Former #1 golfer
Lorena whohosts an annualGuadalajaraLPGA event
23 Heads up
24 Adorable one
25 Screen __
26 Four Corners
state
28 Openly enjoy, as
soup
29 Convened again33 Rib eye
alternative
34 Ethan of
“Boyhood”
35 Gather up37 John who
composed the“NBA on NBC”
theme song
38 Much-followed
star
41 Gorge crosser43 Former Chrysler
head
46 Early Jewish
scholar
47 116-year-old
prize48 Philip Glass’
“Einstein on theBeach,” e.g.
49 Kelly’s ex-partner
50 Belgian treaty city
53 Jesus of baseball
54 She, in
Cherbourg
56 Bar opening?57 __ Lingus58 DIRECTV parent59 Ante- kin60 Bummed out
By Don Gagliardo and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/23/1702/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Baseball game canceled
The Florida baseball team's rematch with Jacksonville University scheduled 
for Wednesday at McKethan Stadium was rained out. The teams will work to schedule a makeup game later this season, according to a press release.Correction: In Tuesday's 
Alligator, golfer Sam Horsﬁ  eld was misidentiﬁ  ed in a photo caption as a freshman. Horsﬁ  eld is a sophomore. By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
With one week remaining in 
the regular-season schedule and 
the SEC Tournament looming, 
it’s ﬁ  nally starting to sink in for 
Ronni Williams that her, four-year journey at Florida is coming to an end. 
The senior forward from 
Daytona Beach has etched her name throughout UF’s record 
books, ranking in the top 15 all-
time in points, rebounds, blocks and ﬁ  eld-goal percentage.
Once one of the top high 
school prospects in the country, 
Williams has lived up to her 
ﬁ  ve-star rating. Now, as the Gators prepare for their last two games of conference play, she is 
trying to cope with the fact that 
her collegiate career is almost ﬁ  nished.
“It’s hitting me,” Williams 
said. “I’m realizing that the 
season is slowly coming to an 
end. It’s bittersweet… but I have to stay focused.”
That focus will be imperative 
for Florida tonight when it takes the ﬂ  oor against Tennessee 
at Thompson-Boling Arena in 
Knoxville.
UF (13-14, 4-10 SEC) is looking 
to build any momentum it can heading into the SEC Tournament 
next week, currently sitting in 
third to last in the conference standings.
The Gators lost to the 
Volunteers (17-10, 8-6 SEC) in January, 84-75, in Gainesville after Tennessee junior guard Diamond DeShields tallied 27 points on 9-of-13 shooting from 
the ﬂ  oor.
UT also knocked down seven 
three-point ﬁ  eld goals and 
recorded 34 points in the paint, 
leading Williams to emphasize 
the importance of continuity on the defensive side of the ball.
“Last time, I don’t believe we 
followed every part of our game  Williams relishing ﬁ  nal days of her Florida basketball career
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams dribbles during UF's 74-67 loss to Missouri on Feb. 16 in the O'Connell Center. The 
senior ranks as one of UF's top-15 scorers of all time. 
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
No. 4 Florida’s biggest issues 
during its loss to No. 1 North Car-olina on Feb. 11 was its inability to win most of the draw controls.
Part of the reason why the Tar 
Heels controlled most of the game was because they were able to score and keep possession of the ball by winning faceoffs. 
And with No. 3 Southern Cali-
fornia looming at the end of the week, coach Amanda O’Leary knows what her team needs to work on if it wants to bounce back against the Trojans.
“We are focusing a lot on the 
draw,” O’Leary said. “They play a zone defense … so we’ll have to make some adjustments to our offense to accommodate for their zone, but otherwise, we’re push-ing the basics.”
USC will be a challenge for the Gators, as it will be one of the few instances where Florida will play a team it hasn’t played before.
Unlike other teams Florida will 
face this year, the only prepara-tion it will have is the ﬁ  lm from USC’s ﬁ  rst two games.
O’Leary said that despite hav-
ing ﬁ  lm on the Trojans, it will be harder for the Gators to pre-pare for them just because they haven’t played USC before. 
“Until you see a team ﬁ  rst-
hand, it’s a little difﬁ  cult to gauge their speed on ﬁ  lm,” O’Leary said.
USC is currently 2-0 with an 
easy 20-2 win over St. Mary’s and a hard-fought 11-10 overtime vic-tory over No. 10 Northwestern. 
Florida, meanwhile, is 0-1 af-
ter its loss to top-ranked UNC.
In goal, USC has junior Gussie 
Johns, who faced Florida as a part of the U.S. National team. How-ever, in that exhibition game be- Ahead of USC, Florida 
lacrosse team looking 
to make adjustmentsSEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE LACROSSE,  PAGE 15NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
It’s OK to freak out a little bit. 
No one will question the worries 
you’re having about Florida’s recent 
loss to the unranked Jacksonville Dolphins. 
The bats were quiet and the bullpen 
imploded. No way the Gators looked like the No. 2 team in the country, right?
You may even ﬁ  nd yourself reading 
texts from fellow Gator fans like, “Dude, what’s up with this UF baseball team? Why is its offense as bad as the football team’s?”
A personal favorite sent to me was, “How tightly 
does Sully (coach Kevin O’Sullivan) have those guys 
wound?”
Relax. 
We’re four games into the season. Did you really expect Florida to come out scoring 
double-digit runs and tossing two-hitters every game to start the season?
Yes, a team like Jacksonville doesn’t have the tal-
ent that UF has. I mean, I’m not sure you can count on one hand the number of Gators with mid-90s fast-
balls. Two hands might not even be enough. 
But in baseball, possibly the most unpredictable 
of the major sports, any team can beat another team 
on any given day. 
All it takes is a pitcher on his game and some 
timely hitting.
That’s exactly what occurred Tuesday night in 
Jacksonville. 
“But this doesn’t happen to other top-ranked 
teams!” you might say. Wrong. Here’s a quick rundown of some 
scores from that very same night.
No. 2 UF lost to Jacksonville, 3-2. No. 3 FSU was one-hit by South Flor-
ida, 4-2. 
No. 5 LSU was outslugged by New 
Orleans, 11-8. 
No. 13 UL Lafayette was taken down 
by Nicholls, 3-1. 
No. 23 Rice fell to Dallas Baptist, 8-4. 
No. 25 Houston was edged out by Houston Bap-
tist, 3-2. 
Whew, are you exhausted yet?
Unlike in college football, baseball rankings really 
don’t mean squat. One great game by a player on a 
subpar team can affect a score much more in base-ball than if, for example, Antonio Callaway notched 100 receiving yards. 
Think about what it would take for Florida Atlan-
tic to beat Alabama in football (that would be some-thing for Lane Kifﬁ  n, huh?). 
Every Owl on the ﬁ  eld would have to play out of 
their freakin’ mind, and quite plainly, the Crimson Tide would have to suck. 
The opposite goes for baseball. One off night for a pitcher like Alex Faedo against, 
say, a team like William & Mary, and you have your-self a 5-4 nail-biter win that could’ve gone either way. 
So before you reply to that panicky text message 
questioning the legitimacy of the Gators, do yourself 
a favor: Look at a calendar.  Dear Florida baseball fans: R-E-L-A-X
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING
By Sean Denison
Sports Writer
After winning its ﬁ  fth-straight 
SEC title, No. 6 Florida is using 
the experience from its conference 
championship to get ready for the NCAA Championships, which start 
March 22 in Indianapolis.
“We’re pretty battle hardened,” 
coach Gregg Troy said. “We’re the 
only conference that has a ﬁ  ve-day 
meet. You have to maintain the in-
tensity for a very long time, so I think it prepares you for that.”
Heading into the SEC Champion-
ship, the Gators knew they would 
face stiff competition. The confer-
ence has three other top-10 teams — No. 5 Georgia, No. 7 Auburn and No. 10 Alabama. But Florida responded 
with a solid performance. 
“The men competed well across 
the board — a total team effort,” 
Troy said. “Anytime you can win 
in this conference it’s tremendous. 
Very good performances from all the 
guys.”
Caeleb Dressel, who won SEC 
Male Swimmer of the Meet at the 
SEC Championships, took ﬁ  rst place 
in every event he competed in. Dres-
sel won the 50-yard freestyle, 100-
yard ﬂ  y and the 100-yard freestyle. 
He also helped the Gators win the 200-yard medley relay, 200-yard free-style relay and the 400-yard freestyle 
relay.
“Caeleb was tremendous,” Troy 
said. “His consistency is amazing. He certainly is the hammer that makes 
the relays really go.”
Because he’s one of the most 
notable athletes on the swimming 
team, Dressel’s performance can 
sometimes overshadow his team-mates. But the men’s team had solid 
performances across the board over 
the weekend. 
“I think from a team standpoint, 
it’s a little unfortunate because we have three other guys who are really, 
really doing well,” Troy said. “Mark 
Szaranek and Jan Switkowski are competing (at) extremely high levels. 
Without their performances, (Dressel is) not even in position to do what he 
did in the relays.”
The Gators will need a complete 
team effort in preparing for the 
NCAA Championship. Despite com-ing off an impressive showing at 
the SEC Championship — which is a ﬁ  ve-day event — the NCAA meet has challenges of its own. 
“On the downside, the NCAA 
meet is you swim the same number of events in three days,” Troy said. 
“So the three days you do swim are 
a little more tiresome. So we have to do some things training-wise to make sure we can manage that real well.”
To prepare for Indianapolis, the 
UF men’s team will have its Last Chance Meet from Friday to Sunday in the O’Connell Center. The diving 
team, meanwhile, will take part 
in the NCAA Zone Diving event in Auburn, Alabama, March 6 through March 8.                 
@seandenison
sdenison@alligator.org 
 Gators ‘battle hardened’ after conference championship
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel emerges from the pool during UF's win over T ennessee on Jan. 28. 
fore the season, UF scored 19 goals.
Florida will see the full-time emergence 
of a new starting goalie this season in 
Haley Hicklen.
“She’s a competitor, but yet doesn’t get rattled,” O’Leary said. “We have so much conﬁ  dence in her. Sometimes (we are) overly conﬁ  dent she’ll make the save.”
After playing backup to Mary-Sean Wil-
cox last season and making 62 saves while receiving signiﬁ  cant playing time, Hicklen is Florida's unquestioned starter this sea-son. 
In her ﬁ  rst game, Hicklen recorded 12 
saves and scooped up ﬁ  ve ground balls. 
But despite Hicklen’s play in goal, Flor-
ida will need to win the draw controls and adjust to USC’s zone defense if it wants to win on Friday night. “The interesting thing about this game 
is we haven’t played them before," O’Leary said, "so there is always that piece of un-certainty about what they can do.” 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org 
LACROSSE,  from pg. 14O'Leary: 'Sometimes (we are) overly conident she'll make the save'16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2017
plan,” she said. “Whatever defense we play, 
whether it’s man or zone, we’ve just got to come out and do it the way we know how to.”
DeShields, a projected top-three pick in this 
year’s WNBA Draft, is questionable to play in tonight’s rematch after suffering a neck injury on Thursday against Alabama that required her to be 
taken off the ﬂ  oor on a stretcher.
Regardless, coach Amanda Butler and her staff aren’t underestimating Tennessee. 
The Volunteers are 12-3 at home this season 
and still boast other talented players in redshirt 
junior center Mercedes Russell and junior guard Jaime Nared, who both scored in double ﬁ  gures against Florida on Jan. 26.
“It’s one of the toughest places in the country 
to play,” Butler said. “But we look forward to the challenge.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Tennessee's DeShields is questionable for tonight's matchup  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams (left) attempts to win a jump ball during Florida's 
74-67 loss to Missouri on Feb. 16 in the O'Connell Center.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coach Amanda Bulter crouches during her team's 74-67 loss to Missouri on Feb. 16 in the O'Connell Center. “It’s one of the toughest places in the country to play, ” she said of T ennessee. 
