We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 113 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
Multiple UF sports in action this week
For a full list, see pg. 16
New scanners at UF translate words into sounds
The ﬁ  ve scanners cost about $26,200 each, pg. 5
Local teen wins $500,000 lottery prize
The 19-year-old purchased a $5 scratch-off from a Gainesville 
gas station, pg. 8FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
By Spring 2019, high-school foot-
ball recruits touring UF’s campus 
will likely have their attention direct-
ed to the university’s new $60 mil-
lion football facility, slated to begin construction in January.
The facility will be built next to the UF Football team’s recently-
erected $17 million indoor practice 
facility, which was completed in Fall 2015, wrote Chip Howard, the University Athletic Association’s as-sociate athletic director for internal 
affairs, in an email.
“A facility adjacent to their prac-
tice complex has been needed for 
some time,” Howard said. While nothing has been agreed 
upon, HOK, the architecture ﬁ  rm tapped to design and construct the new facility, has proposed includ-ing a dining hall, 3-D hologram training environment, strength and 
conditioning center, hydrotherapy 
space and locker room, said Algen Williams, HOK’s vice president and regional leader for sports, recreation and entertainment.
Football athletes, coaches and 
support staff will have access to the facility, and all student athletes will have access to the dining hall, How-ard said. The ofﬁ  cial designing pro-cess starts this month. 
“It’s a blank piece of paper right 
now,” Williams said. “Nothing is settled.”
Construction, funded through 
athletics operating funds, bonds and donor ﬁ  nancial gifts, is scheduled to begin January 2018 and be com-pleted by Spring 2019, Howard said.
Williams said he helped cre-
ate UF’s $100 million master facil-ity plan to renovate several athletic complexes, including the Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium and the Alfred A. McKethan Stadium, where the UF 
softball and baseball teams play, re-
spectively.
“It’s a huge project, and the Uni-
versity of Florida is a great client,” Williams said. 
 UF announces new $60 million football facility
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
As construction workers la-
bor to rebuild his home — and 
donations ﬂ  ood in — Henry the rhino looks on, fortunate to have escaped a roaring ﬁ  re without a scratch.
The 35-year-old, 4,600-pound 
Indian rhino was spending his Mondays like he often does, in-side his shelter at Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation, when  a ﬁ  re ravaged his home Monday morning.
 Barry Janks, the co-owner of 
the foundation, located at 8528 E. County Road 225, rushed to the shelter at about 10 a.m. to see a plume of black smoke billowing from inside.“(Henry) came running out,” 
he said. “I was trying to guide him away from the ﬁ  re.”
When the insulated shelter’s 
steel roof collapsed, the rhino pan-icked but escaped with only minor scratches. In the process of guid-ing Henry, Janks tore a ligament in his left foot.
Fireﬁ  ghters responded and put 
out the ﬂ  ames that ravaged the 28-by-24-foot shelter. The damage was too severe to determine the cause of the ﬁ  re, Janks said. It will cost about $25,000 to rebuild.
Donations came in quickly, he 
said. Even a recycling company helped by sending a dumpster to help clean out the damaged enclo-sure.
More than $7,000 has been do-
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer 
A day after his wife’s burned 
body was found inside their mo-bile home, a man was found dead in his car Tuesday, an apparent gunshot wound through his head.
Wesley Ryan Smith, 27, was 
a person of interest in his wife’s death after the Alachua Coun-ty Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and Alachua County Fire Rescue investigated a ﬁ  re Monday at the mobile home, located at 809 Victoria Court, ac-cording to an ACSO press release.
When ACSO deputies and ﬁ  re 
rescue arrived, the ﬂ  ames had spread to 50 percent of the home, according to the release.After extinguishing the ﬁ  re, 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters discovered the body of Aren Nichole Snyder, Smith’s 19-year-old wife, according to the release. 
A medical examiner ruled Sny-
der died from a gunshot wound to her head, according to the re-lease. 
ACSO then began investigating her murder. 
Monday night, detectives ruled 
Smith as a person of interest and searched for his car, according to the release. 
At about 4:25 a.m. Tuesday, 
deputies found Smith’s car at the Holden Park Boat Ramp, located at 9725 Holden Park Road, ac-cording to the release.He was found dead inside from 
what appeared to be a self-inﬂ  ict-ed gunshot wound, according to the release.
ACSO is investigating the in-
cidents as a murder and suicide, according to the release. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  Local rhino dodges 
death after ﬂ  ames 
engulf shelter
 ACSO: Person of interest in murder case found deadWill Coburn / Alligator Staff
TO DYE FOR
Michelle Chang, an 18-year-old UF digital arts and sciences freshman, enjoys an afternoon of tie-dying 
at Color Your Spring Break, presented by Reitz Union Board Entertainment, on Tuesday. “I was in the mood to tie-dye, ” she said. “Events like these are really fun. I really like how there’s a lot of variety. ”
SEE RHINO,  PAGE 4It may include 3 -D hologram trainingSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 113
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF School of Theatre and Dance 
presents Dance 2017
The UF School of Theatre 
and Dance is proud to pres-
ent Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner now through Thursday at the Constans Theatre. Dance 
2017 sets the standard for pre-
senting bold and unapologeti-cally original contemporary dance. Tickets for the produc-tion are $18 for the general 
public, $15 for seniors and UF 
staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More 
information is available at arts.
ufl.edu.
UF’s Fine Arts College Council 
presents the 2016-2017 
FACC Student Juried Arts 
ExhibitionThe Fine Arts College Council (FACC) at UF is pleased to 
present the 2016-2017 FACC 
Student Juried Arts Exhibition now through Thursday in the University Gallery. From sculp-ture and installation to ceram-
ics, painting, photography and 
video, the exhibition features the work of graduate and un-dergraduate students from the 
College of the Arts in the UF 
School of Art + Art History. It also features a special dance performance by students from the UF School of Theatre and 
Dance. All events are free and 
open to the public.
The Criticism of the Albigensian 
Crusade in Occitan Crusading LyricsIn a public and free lecture hosted by the Center for the Humanities and the Public 
Sphere, Marjolaine Raguin of 
the University of Liege will dis-cuss political dissent in Occitan lyrics about the Albigensian 
Crusade. She will show what 
kind of arguments were used, how they were applied and in what historical and intellec-tual contexts they operated. 
This event will take place in 
the Marston Visualization Lab, Room L136, today at 5:30 p.m.
Glow-in-the-dark Zumba pre-
sented by RUB EntertainmentThe Reitz Union Board Entertainment will be host-ing a glow-in-the-dark Zumba 
event in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom today from 6:15 p.m. 
to 7:30 p.m.
Grove Street block party
The Grove Street neighborhood is getting a makeover with the addition of a new brewery, ca-fes and eight new murals by 
local and international artists. 
This is a nonprofit community project that’s wrapping up with a block party Saturday at 2 p.m. on Powell Plaza, located at 
219 NW 10th Ave. There will 
be food trucks, DJs, perform-ers, poi spinners, projections, a poetry reading by Spencer 
Rooney, art vendors, meet and 
greets with artists, live paint-ing, a community mural and more. 
Sunstock Solar Festival 
Sunstock, a 100 percent solar-powered Music Festival, will be partnering with Changeville 
2017: Gainesville's Social 
Change Festival to host the Official Changeville after party from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. Saturday at Swamp Head Brewery, 
Florida's first and only solar-
powered brewery. All music will be powered with clean, renewable energy. Let's show 
the music festival community 
and the rest of the world that the future of clean energy is here, and it comes from our own star. The idea is to create 
a movement within the music 
festival community to use en-vironmentally sustainable en-ergy sources and strategies to 
encourage fans of music and art 
to work toward reducing our carbon footprint. All music and lights will be powered by bat-teries charged with our mobile 
solar generator. Come rock out,  
and be a part of the next solar powered festival in Gainesville. Admission is free. 
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at 
all levels, including first-timers. 
Classes will take place in Dance Studio A at the Reitz Union on Sundays. The beginner’s class 
will begin at 6:15 p.m., followed 
by an intermediate/advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, bal-
let, salsa shoes or even a pair 
of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uf-tango.
APIA Affairs Anthology
The Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs is accepting submissions to its annual an-
thology until today. We will 
take digital art, paintings, po-ems, videos, musical compo-sitions and more. This year's theme is taboo. To learn more, 
visit tinyurl.com/apiaanthol-
ogy.
UF National Student Speech 
Language Hearing Association The 2017 Stride Against Silence 5K Run/Walk, benefitting the UF Health Speech and Hearing 
Center, is just around the cor-
ner. The race will begin at 8:30 a.m. March 18. Following the race, there will be fun-filled ac-
tivities for all ages. Make sure to 
register early to guarantee your shirt and goodie bag. There will be prizes for the most creative team, the largest team and all 
heroes. Register now at bit.
ly/2ktWm4A.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
 Write yourself into the art mu-seum. Words on Canvas is a po-etry and prose writing competi-tion at the Harn Museum of Art 
for UF and Santa Fe College stu-
dents inspired by art. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.
ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The 
deadline is March 17.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
nated to rebuild the shelter.
Money has poured in from a Go-
FundMe page and PayPal accounts, 
Janks said.
Meanwhile, Henry, who is used 
to warm weather, is living out in the open.
“It’s cold out,” Janks said. “It’s 
a little tough for the old guy.”
Henry retired to Carson Springs 
— a facility that houses tigers, le-murs, foxes and other animals — in November 2016 after being used for breeding across the country, he said. Henry has more than 60 grandchildren. 
Joe Andreoli, 25, met Henry 
with his girlfriend on a Valentine’s Day tour of Carson Springs. They fed Henry carrots and sweet pota-toes and took pictures with him.
“It was a great experience,” the 
UF geography graduate student said.
Andreoli saw a Facebook post 
from Carson Springs about the fire and donated $37 to the cause.
“With all those animals there, 
they could have been hurt,” he said. “I was scared.”
Nicole Warner sent $20 on the 
fundraising website. She pet Hen-ry’s horn and snout during her company’s holiday party in Decem-ber 2016 at the conservation facil-ity.
“It was a once-in-a-lifetime ex-
perience,” she said.
She saw the post Monday and 
remembered learning about how Indian rhinos aren’t used to the cold.
“I thought, ‘Poor Henry is going 
to be cold,’” she said. “He came to warm Florida to retire, and this wasn’t the weather he might be ex-pecting.”
Henry is acclimating after the 
fire and watches as construction workers plan and build his new home, Janks said.
“He’s a trooper,” Janks said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgRHINO,  from pg.1The rhino arrived at Carson Springs in November 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Henry, a 35-year-old rhino, had his shelter destroyed in a  fire on Monday. He now has to spend his 
time outside.
By Spencer Thompson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ken Humphlett has already 
caught 71 of the 80 new Pokemon. 
On Feb. 16, Pokemon Go, a geo-
caching app in which users collect 
digital creatures, otherwise known 
as Pokemon, rolled out its most sig-
nificant update since its release in July. In addition to new Pokemon, the update features a number of new gameplay options such as in-teraction with the Pokemon them-selves and customization options.  
Humphlett, 50, a Gainesville 
resident, said he plays the game with his five kids about three times each week.
“We were so excited that we 
went out and stayed out for four 
hours,” Humphlett said. 
The smartphone app was de-
veloped by Niantic, Inc. The game 
uses GPS and your phone’s camera to produce an augmented reality.
The game includes catching 
and hatching Pokemon, leveling up your character — also called a trainer — and battling in gyms, ac-cording to archives. 
Humphlett said he started play-
ing the game when it was released after one of his sons recommended it. 
“It’s a great family activity,” he 
said. “That’s the neat part of the game. You can go out and do that and explore new areas.”
While the game was massively 
popular when it was first released, the trend has died down. But people like Humphlett and 
Tillissa Barcia have seen recent surges since the new update. 
Barcia, an administrator on 
the “Pokemon Go: Gainesville” Facebook page, said the app has brought out many people who quit 
playing the game during the lull 
period.
The Gainesville community has 
largely continued to play despite the lag, she said. The Facebook page, which has 736 members, has grown consistently since the game’s release. Some players, like Humphlett, stayed because they were up to the challenge.“At times it’s frustrating,” 
Humphlett said, “but because I’m a constant player, sometimes you’ve just got to grind and catch all the junk just to level up.”
There’s more to the game than 
just the new characters, Barcia 
said. She suffers from post-trau-
matic stress disorder and said the game has encouraged her to get out more and helped her embrace the fun of the app.
“Just being able to get out and 
have fun and discover nature trails and go take my kids to the park and have family time is very im-
portant,” Barcia said.
Pokemon Go continues strong presence in GainesvilleJACKIE PHILLIPS WAS 
APPROVED AS SENATE 
PRESIDENT.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Student Senate unani-
mously elected Jackie Phillips as 
the new Senate president Tuesday night. 
Phillips (Impact, Jennings), 
the former information and com-munications committee chair, was the sole nominee for the position 
during the night’s second back-to-
back meeting.
“As Senate president, I would 
bring the same inclusive and col-
laborative mentality in all that I 
do,” she said. 
Trevor Schaettle (Impact, Dis-
trict A), the former judiciary com-
mittee chair, was unanimously approved as the new Senate pro-
tempore. No one else was nomi-
nated for the position. 
During the first meeting, UF Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs 
announced there were no election complaints filed during the Spring election.
“It shows that our student lead-
ers show great poise,” he said.
Senators unanimously ap-
proved the Spring election results, during which Impact took 48 seats, and the other two went to inde-pendent graduate candidate Pulkit Kumar Dhir and write-in dentistry candidate Galia Fakhri-Medrano.
During the second meeting’s 
public debate, Sen. Zachariah 
Chou (Independent, Infinity) said 
remote online voting would’ve 
passed this election by a higher percentage than last year if the UF Supreme Court had not ruled 
to count abstention votes as “no” 
votes. “It’s not normal for us to do 
this,” he said. “Online voting 
would’ve been passed again if it wasn’t for the current constitu-tional crisis.” 
Student Body President-Elect 
Smith Meyers, who served as Senate President before Phillips was approved, gave his goodbye 
speech during the first meeting, 
saying it’s important for senators 
to reach across the aisle and treat 
people who have different opin-ions with respect.
“We are all on the same team 
and fighting the same fight,” he 
said. “You can disagree with some-
one and still love them.”
During former Senate Pro-Tem-
pore Austin Champoux’s goodbye speech, he said he wore the same 
orange-and-navy striped tie he 
wore to his first Senate meeting. 
He advised senators not to sac-
rifice friendships for the sake of 
getting too wrapped up in SG poli-
tics. To end his speech, he gave 
out hand-written letters to a group 
of his closest friends and joined everyone in doing a Gator Chomp. 
“I can’t tell you how lucky I am 
to have something that makes say-
ing goodbye very hard,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSenate elects new president, verifies election results
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Jackie Phillips is sworn in as president of the Student Senate on Tues-
day during a Senate meeting. Phillips ran unopposed for the position.
After recent update, even more users “W e are all on the same team 
and fighting the same fight.”
Smith Meyers
Student Body president-electWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Finkel
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Recently installed scanners at UF’s 
libraries will help visually impaired stu-
dents translate words into sound.
Five on-campus libraries, with fund-
ing from a UF’s Technology Fee grant, 
are now home to Knowledge Imaging 
Center Bookeye Scanners. 
The machines, which were installed 
earlier this month and are free for stu-
dents to use, have a function that scans 
pages, and then transfers the words to 
an MP3 ﬁ  le so students can listen to 
what they’re reading.
The scanners, which cost about 
$26,200 each, were bought with a $131,000 grant, said Stacey Ewing, the associate chair of Library West. 
The ﬁ  ve scanners were installed at Li-
brary West, the Marston Science Library, the Education Library, the Special and 
Area Studies Collection and the Archi-
tecture and Fine Arts Library, she said. 
They can scan up to 22 pages per min-
ute, compared to three scans per minute on a regular, ﬂ  atbed scanner. 
“It will help faculty and graduate 
assistants share PDFs to online classes right away,” Ewing said.  
She said the machine also allows stu-
dents to send scanned ﬁ  les via email and crop the scanned image before sending 
it or downloading it onto a USB ﬂ  ash 
drive. The scanner can also condense two pages of a book onto one scanned page, she said. 
Courtney Spillman, a UF chemistry 
sophomore studying to be a teacher, said the scanners will also beneﬁ  t professors, who have to spend their own, unpaid time scanning books and articles. 
“This would make it easier to print 
out stories rather than copying each book page by page,” the 20-year-old said.
Lawson Jaffe, a 22-year-old UF biol-
ogy and economics senior, said while the machines will make scanning more efﬁ  -cient, they might not be necessary. 
“I mean, is it really that important?” 
Jaffe said. “We could probably make it 
without it.”  Newly-installed UF scanners 
translate words into sound
By Kristen Dugan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Oral histories about the Women’s March 
on Washington, collected by UF students, will 
soon be available to the public.
A digital collection run by the UF libraries 
will include about 650 oral histories as part of a national program called Women’s March on Washington Oral History Collection. UF stu-dents in the Samuel Proctor Oral History Pro-gram collected 150 of those oral histories during the women’s march and presidential inaugura-tion in January.
On Jan. 18, a group of 17 students traveled 
to Washington, D.C., with Holland Hall, a re-search coordinator for the program, to docu-ment the women’s march. The group gathered content, which will be used for the Women’s March on Washington Archives Project. 
“I jumped in the moment it happened,” Hall 
said. “Being there and feeling the energy was so incredible.”
Hall says the department of history will offer 
a research internship to a student learning more about the march.
“We want people to look at the march as 
an amazing movement,” she said. “I thought it was incredible for so many people to stand up 
for human rights. This has been so inspiring.”
Margaret Clarke, a UF history junior, went 
with Hall to record the women’s march. She 
said it was an amazing experience to be a part of the history being made.
“The people we interviewed were so inspir-
ing,” the 20-year-old said. “Everyone I met had such a spirit of community.”
Paul Ortiz, the director of the program, raised 
the money to pay for the students’ travels. He said the oral histories are being kept in different formats, including video and audio interviews and photographs of the people who were inter-viewed and the scene around them.
“We had a cohort of journalism students,” 
he said. “They had experiences taking photo-graphs.”
Katrina Vandeven, 24, a masters student 
at the University of Denver, is the co-founder and co-administrator of the Women’s March on Washington Archives Project. She said collabo-rating with UF was a thoughtful decision.
“We want all this content to be in one 
space so that it is fully curated and accessible,” Vandeven said. “It is extremely rewarding. We are really contributing to something for wom-en’s history.”  Students plan to make video, 
audio of women’s march publicThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Why we should all be allowed to take a Sabbath
The Judeo-Christian idea of the Sabbath 
has been on my mind recently, most likely because of my personal sched-ule. College for most is either boring or impossible, with too much leisure or 
not enough time. I ﬁ  nd myself in the latter position, where extracurricular involvement, tedious classes, relationships and personal hobbies jumble together to form one restless day after another. The reason why, I presume, the notion of the Sabbath has crept into my mind is because of the chaos of this semester. In short, I need rest — or maybe a month of backpacking through Ireland or a week at the beach. 
The Sabbath, for those who are unfamiliar, is a desig-
nated day of rest and abstinence from all forms of work. It originates from the Old Testament story of Genesis, where God rested on the seventh day of creation and eventually, in the book of Exodus, commands the exiled Israelites to remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. On the surface, the prescription seems a bit loony or at least strange. A command from God to resist work? Shouldn’t it be the opposite? Since humans often enjoy not having to struggle or work, shouldn’t God be push-ing us to work eight hours a day for the whole week? 
Such a command — to work constantly — certainly 
sounds more modern. As college students, our academ-ics creep into every aspect of our lives. I know person-ally that during each semester I feel a constant pressure to stay on top of and anticipate new assignments. The moments of reprieve from such pressure are few, but sweet. I take it that this is what the Judeo-Christian God intended with the Sabbath. Symbolically speaking, the ability to abstain from a day of all work is truly the ability to rest existentially. The college student who can take Sundays off is the one who does not allow academ-ic anxiety to rule or control their behavior. In taking a Sabbath, they are symbolically saying that they ﬁ  nd their identity elsewhere, apart from work as a student.
Rest, then, in a Biblical sense means tear-
ing away the soul from anything it seeks to live for apart from God. In other words, the Sabbath is a reminder that we ought not de-rive our meaning and sense of self from what we do for a living or what test score we re-ceived last week. Rather, in taking a break from daily vocational rhythms and academic 
stresses, we are reminding ourselves to place our sense of worth in something greater, more satisfactory and important: God.
In a secular sense, this could mean enjoying time 
with family or spending the day in nature. Either way, I see the need for rest in myself and others. I have failed to implement this principle in my life, and I see the consequences: impaired sleep, a weak immune system, an emotional toll, etc. A lack of Sabbath rest touches every part of a person: physical, emotional, social and, I believe, spiritual. A failure to take Sabbath rest is essen-tially a failure to reallocate one’s self-worth and identity into something greater than what one does for work. The pressures of discovering happiness in and through what one does — grades, performance, etc. — are poi-sonous. We are only a couple months into the semester, and I have already contracted a serious cold because of a lack of sleep and rest.
I see the Sabbath as a great hope for me, and I hope 
for you as well. In our struggle to discover who we are as people, the Sabbath reminds us to look above and beyond what it is that lies in front of us at the moment and to breathe, take walks, read for pleasure and wor-ship God. Such a reminder could not be more timely.
Scott Stinson is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.Should we be 
concerned with 
cloud computing?
On Tuesday afternoon, Canvas was down. We realized 
this quickly, frantically taking to Facebook to make sure our computers weren’t just acting up and ask-ing others about assignment information. This prob-lem was not localized to e-learning, however, nor was 
UF’s spotty Wi-Fi to blame. This stemmed from something much more widespread, with websites all over the internet los-ing functionality, ranging from small features not working to the whole site or app being down.
In case you don’t have a smart-aleck tech person in your 
life, let us explain. Amazon Web Services — speciﬁ  cally the S3 service — went ofﬂ  ine. This speciﬁ  c service is used by almost 150,000 sites and apps, including Slack, BuzzFeed and, as we all know by now, our very own e-learning site.
Now some of you naysayers are shaking your ﬁ  sts and curs-
ing corporate America for letting us down and blaming Ama-zon, along with other big corporations, for screwing you over because you couldn’t take your online test. And some of you die-hard Amazon enthusiasts are going to defend Amazon until your dying breaths.
It’s a bit of a sticky situation, we will admit. Cloud-based 
technology is much cheaper and more accessible than the alter-natives. Small businesses don’t need to set up servers to host 
their websites. All they need is the AWS account. Additionally, 
lots of businesses use AWS servers to store images, videos and databases, and then access those things via the internet. Not to sound too cheesy, but the cloud really does connect us and make the web easier to handle and access.
But, of course, there is the downside. For instance, as we 
learned Tuesday, when one thing goes wrong on Amazon’s end, a heck of a lot goes wrong for a whole bunch of other websites. Some were only hit by broken links, and others fully 
lost functionality. Amazon couldn’t even update its service 
health dashboard, because that dashboard was, in fact, hosted on AWS. This doesn’t even take into account data leaks and security. Sure, they don’t happen often, but when they do, it can be compromising.
So where do we draw the line? Can we draw a line? Have 
we already started to tumble into a world where we are com-pletely at the mercy of a line of code gone wrong? 
Cloud-based technology is one of those things that, well, we 
just can’t know right off the bat. Hopefully it will end up being like the early days of phone, radio and television, and the kinks will work themselves out, allowing technology to be used with minimal risk and shared with the world without a fear of things going horribly wrong. And besides, let’s put it in perspective: Websites were wonky for a few hours. Was it inconvenient? Yes. But did it really threaten us? Not really. Maybe it was frus-trating to wait a few hours to take your Canvas quiz or post a picture on Tumblr, but we fail to recognize that literally every 
other time, these servers have worked. They held up the trafﬁ  c 
of hundreds of millions of users across hundreds of thousands of websites. And that, dear readers, is impressive.
Yes, there’s the issue of data leaks and security. That’s 
where the hesitation in cloud-based technology should be drawn to, not the fact that for a few hours, we weren’t able to see some pictures on our favorite sites. We need to trust that these technologies will move us forward and not fear the minor setbacks that might occur.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
This week I want to talk about a trend 
in public discourse. I’d like to take a look at what happens when we take the middle ground. Compromise is a democratic ideal we use to try to sat-
isfy several parties with one solution. When other ways forward fail, we settle for the middle road. Compromise comes from the best of intentions, but that doesn’t mean it is always done for the right reasons. We have to learn to differentiate between com-promise and conﬂ  ict-avoidance.
Often we are driven to compromise by 
one of two beliefs. Idealists insist that each side of an argument deserves an equal voice. Others believe the solution to all things truly lies down the middle path.
Examining both sides of an issue is es-
sential to composing an argument. You cannot show that your idea is better than another without addressing the opposing idea. If you’re to have a leg to stand on, you must consider what merits and drawbacks apply to every position. You are stress test-ing each idea to see which is the stronger framework for action.
This practice becomes a prob-
lem when we forget this sort of “fairness” serves a purpose: to make decisions based on all the available information. When this stops being a tool, it becomes a superstition: Commentators hold up ideas as sacred and refuse to draw parallels, but having two options does not make them equally valid, as when UF President Kent Fuchs stated last week that, “Scientists drink Coke, Christians drink Pepsi.” There is not a 50-50 chance it will rain or not tomorrow, despite the fact that those are the two options.
Giving both sides does not mean that 
neither can be criticized. Claims that one idea is superior to another are decried as “biased.” We must remember that “bias” is the unfair or irrational preference of one thing over another. To apply the same force to wood and steel will ﬁ  nd that steel is the stronger material. This does not mean the test was biased. In this same way, you can still reach a conclusion without being biased.
What about the belief that 
compromise is simply the best solution? On its own, this belief is meaningless. The average of all options has no particular moral high ground. Neo-Nazis may ad-vocate for genocide — meeting 
them halfway to the next holocaust does not make your stance more righteous. Com-promise rarely makes anyone happy, but it does require less effort and concession than other options. It causes the least conﬂ  ict, and that’s the point.
Most of us have been trained our entire 
lives to avoid conﬂ  ict, and it is no wonder this shows in our rhetoric. It makes day-to-day social interaction run more smoothly, but lately it is leading us to yield ground to repellent ideas.
When we say that science and religion are just two equally valid approaches to the pursuit of truth, insist that barbaric cultural practices deserve as much respect as any other tradition and treat hatred and bigotry like just another political stance, we are en-gaging in a form of intellectual cowardice. We forget that the best solution is never the average of half a dozen bad options, and nothing worth having has ever come with-out a ﬁ  ght.
No matter how often we are told that 
reason does not matter, we must reject the claim that there can be no right answers. Arguing for what you believe can be stress-ful. You will be accused of being rude, over-enthusiastic and pedantic. Ethics, politics and religion may only be ideas, but they are ideas that guide how we treat others, and when it comes to the principles that guide our behavior, it does actually matter who is right.
David Billig is a UF linguistics masters 
student. His column appears on Wednes-days.
The American people have to trust that their president is being as transpar-ent as possible, barring security con-cerns. A president should be open to the media and make statements 
whenever necessary — that’s why the posi-tion of press secretary was created in the ﬁ  rst place. By establishing himself as the only one with the true facts, President Donald Trump is beginning to lead like a dictator. He dem-onstrates why there is a division between public relations and journalism. Journalists are supposed to report the truth, while pub-lic relations professionals represent clients. There’s a reason why The New York Times isn’t ﬁ  lled with press releases and why Sean Spicer isn’t called the White House resident journalist, but rather the press secretary. He represents Trump’s interests.
The Trump administration’s ban of major 
media from the White House press corps is disturbing. Journalists can only report on in-formation they are provided, so if only one side is communicating with the media, then that side will control the narrative. Despite their nu-merous attempts to be fair to the Trump administration, they have been shut down.
A president is the president of 
all people, not just those he agrees with, and it’s irresponsible to shut out outlets who have not covered him favorably. Every president at one point or another has had unfavorable news coverage — at this point in Barack Obama’s presidency, he was still having to prove he was a citizen at all.
Trump’s presidency so far has been 
marked by a blurring of boundaries. It’s clear that Trump’s problems with the  media come from within — his administration is the leak-iest so far. Kellyanne Conway has struggled to stay on message, and she even endorsed Ivanka Trump’s products on TV. This presi-dent seems to be confused about how run-ning a country is distinct from running a business. Businesses can simply refuse to answer ques-tions or release statements on an issue. The president can’t.
Even if the media was actively 
trying to destroy the Trump ad-ministration, they wouldn’t have to do much. The administration itself is already a mess. All it takes is to use their own words against 
them. Within just a few months, what Spicer considered unacceptable is now becoming the norm. In December, he told Politico the White House would not ban speciﬁ  c media outlets because, “That’s what makes a de-mocracy a democracy versus a dictatorship.”
The press is there to hold the government 
accountable. There are times when the gov-ernment fails, as it did this past election cy-cle, to acknowledge its own limitations. The media keeps a running log of current events we can refer to. For example, without the media, we 
wouldn’t know that Trump had expressed support for the transgender community when it came to the bathroom bill in North Carolina while on the campaign trail. Now, according to The New York Times, Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions are peel-ing back the Obama administration’s guid-ance, prompting schools to no longer be required in allowing transgender students to use the bathroom corresponding to their gender identity. 
There are media outlets that lean a certain 
way, but that doesn’t mean what they report is inherently untrue. Essentially, Trump is forcing the press to be part of the story by censoring them.  
As George Orwell once said, “Journalism 
is printing what someone else does not want printed: Everything else is public relations.”
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her regular column ap-pears on Mondays.
Appeasement: what happens when we compromise for all the wrong reasons
The media has no obligations to agree with the government on issuesColumn
Column
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Two and a half hours before 
Michael Huang’s online calculus 
3 exam, the website on which he would take it crashed.
Canvas, a learning management 
system students across the U.S. used to access course materials and take online exams, went dark on Tues-day, prompting confusion — and constant refreshing — from students who needed to study for  or take  ex-ams.
Amazon Web Services, which 
Canvas uses to operate, experienced 
an outage starting at 12:37 p.m., 
wrote Fedro Zazueta, UF’s director of academic technology, in an email. Amazon identified the cause, and 
Instructure, the company that runs 
Canvas, worked with Amazon to fix 
its services.
“This Amazon web service out-
age is impacting several services 
they provide all along the Eastern seaboard,” he said.
For Huang, a Pathway to Cam-
pus Enrollment (PaCE) student, the crash left him with no access to study resources or his exam. 
The UF computer science fresh-
man said he doesn’t know what will happen with his exam, but he hopes his professor will reschedule it. 
“I’m pretty sure the professor is 
reasonable enough to know it’s Can-vas’ problems, not the students,” the 
18-year-old said. “We can’t control 
Canvas.”
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said Canvas began working again by late afternoon.
She said she didn’t know the 
exact cause of the outage, because it was on Amazon’s end, which af-fected all of its services on the East 
Coast. It was unknown how many 
students were affected, she said.
For those students who had on-
line assignments scheduled during the outage, she said she believed most online professors would adjust their schedules.
“Professors will recognize that 
the system was down and will ad-
just the schedule of things, because 
it was totally out of everyone’s con-trol,” she said.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
A 19-year-old from Alachua 
struck gold with a $5 scratch-off Friday, winning a grand prize of $500,000.
Carlos Carranza Casas picked up 
his winning Gold Rush Doubler lot-tery ticket in the convenience store at the Deerhaven Marathon gas sta-tion, located at 9600 NW 13th St. in Gainesville, the Florida Lottery an-nounced in a press release Monday.
Casas could not be immediately 
reached for comment.
Cherie Cevaer, the gas station’s 
manager, said she was doing pa-perwork in her office when a lottery representative came in to tell the store it sold the winning ticket.
A sign that reads, “Winning Tick-
et Sold Here” now hangs in the front window of the store.
“It’s absolutely mind-boggling 
considering how many retail stores 
sell these tickets, and yet we were 
the one that sold the top prize,” Ce-vaer said.
The lottery game debuted in 
January and offers more than $182.8 million in prizes, according to the re-lease. There are 44 tickets that will win the top prize of $500,000. 
Keri Nucatola, a Florida Lottery 
public affairs specialist, said Casas came in to claim the prize Friday at 
the Florida Lottery headquarters in 
Tallahassee. Any win of more than $250,000 has to be verified at the headquarters.
The overall odds of winning the 
grand prize is 1 in 1.2 million, ac-cording to the Florida Lottery’s web-site.
“Some weeks we get a bunch of 
winners and other weeks we don’t get any,” Nucatola said.
Cevaer said she doesn’t know the 
exact time the ticket was sold, but she hopes Casas will call the store after the chaos has settled down.
“I’m hoping the winner really 
needs the money,” she said. “I was absolutely elated when I found out.”Canvas crash causes 
confusion on campus
Alachua teen wins 
$500,000 lottery prizeAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ONE MESSY FUNDRAISER
Alberto Barcenas, a 21-year-old UF international studies junior, squirts a combination of  flour, water, 
grape jelly and baby shampoo at Zack Murray, a 20-year-old UF business sophomore, and Nidhi Patel, a 21-year-old UF psychology junior and member of the Sigma Sigma Rho sorority. Sigma Sigma Rho hosted the event on Tuesday as a fundraiser for Peaceful Paths, a center used to help domestic violence victims.
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
BUG BUDDIES
Jeremy, a Madagascar hissing cockroach, climbs on the arm of Sydney St. Pierre, a 22-year-old UF technical theater transfer student in her first year. The UF Bug Club gave stickers that read, “I touched a roach!” to people who touched or held Jeremy on Tuesday at the north entrance of the Reitz Union.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer 
A routine traffic stop Monday 
evening turned into a tense stand-
off, Gainesville Police said.
On one side, a man with a 12-
inch knife. On the other, an officer 
with a gun.The altercation began at about 
7:45 p.m., after the GPD officer 
pulled over Clifford Gerrod Fergu-son, 36, for failing to yield to the 
officer’s vehicle, according to an ar-
rest report.
Upon stopping his tan Chevrolet 
Impala, the Gainesville man swung open his door and began yelling at the officer, at one point saying, “I’m leaving. I don’t have to be here,” ac-cording to the report.
When Ferguson tried to get 
up, the officer told him to sit back down. Ferguson then turned to-ward his passenger seat and picked up the knife, which featured a ser-rated 6-inch blade, according to the report.
Moments later, Ferguson pointed 
his blade at the officer, prompting him to unholster his gun and com-mand Ferguson to put his knife down, according to the report.
Ferguson paused for a moment 
before complying.
Inside his car, officers found a 
marijuana cigar and three other knives — including a machete, ac-
cording to the report.Police arrested Ferguson on 
charges of aggravated assault on an officer, the unlicensed possession of 
a concealed weapon, possession of drug paraphernalia and possession of less than 20 grams of weed. 
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where he was released Tuesday afternoon on his own recognizance.
Ferguson could not be reached 
for comment.Police: Gainesville man brandished knife against officer
He faced off with an armed officerWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
SALES REP
OF THE MONTH
FEBRUARY 2017
KYLIE JOHNSON
major: adv ertising
CONGRA TULATIONS!
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Police found a Gainesville man in a tree 
Monday.
About an hour earlier, Leon Marcus 
Criswell kidnapped a motorist using his own 
car and led police on a winding high-speed 
car chase, Gainesville Police said.
Following an argument with the motorist 
at about 8:40 p.m., Criswell, 44, pushed him 
into his white Jeep and drove away, refusing 
to let the man out while driving into oncom-ing trafﬁ  c and over medians and curbs, at 
one point reaching speeds of more than 120 
miles per hour, according to an arrest report.
Criswell was borrowing the Jeep when he 
and the owner got into an argument at a CVS 
Pharmacy on Southwest 13th Street, accord-
ing to the report. The owner’s friend called 
911 to report the kidnapping.
The owner begged Criswell to let him out, 
but he refused and yelled for the owner to be quiet, according to the report. At one point, Criswell attempted to open the passenger-
side door while driving.
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
and Florida Highway Patrol were notiﬁ  ed 
of the Jeep and chased 
Criswell as he ﬂ  ed along 
U.S. Highway 441, GPD 
spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer 
Matthew Goeckel said.
After arriving in Mi-
canopy, Criswell jumped out of the car while it was 
still in motion and ran 
into the woods, accord-
ing to the report. With the help of a police helicopter, ofﬁ  cers found Criswell hiding in 
a tree and arrested him.
As for the passenger, he was found cry-
ing and shaking inside the car, bent over in 
a near-fetal position, per the report.
Criswell faces charges of false imprison-
ment and ﬂ  eeing ofﬁ  cers. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains 
as of press time in lieu of a $75,000 bond.GPD : Argument leads to 
kidnapping, risky car chase By Sophia Carballo
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Two Cuban-born UF graduates hope their 
artwork can help bring ﬁ  nancial relief to a Cu-
ban city still recovering from Hurricane Mat-thew.
The money earned from their paintings, to 
be displayed at St. Augustine’s Lost Art Gallery on Friday, will go toward relief efforts in Bara-coa, a city ravaged by the 2016 hurricane.
Their one-day exhibit is a part of the inaugu-
ral Bulla Cubana festival in St. Augustine.
“We want to represent our pride for be-
ing Hispanic and for being immigrants,” said Miguel Saludes, 27, one of the artists. “We hold the United States in a very special place in our 
hearts, and we want to contribute to it.” Saludes and fellow artist Jefreid Lotti gradu-
ated from UF in Spring 2016, each with a mas-
ter’s degree in art. They will be joined by Al-
varo Labañino, a Cuban artist, and the third 
member of their art group, “Sérverus.”
There is a minimum $20 donation entry fee 
per person, which will go toward Baracoa, ac-cording to the gallery’s website.
Lotti, who is displaying paintings inspired 
by life in Miami, said he’s excited about reach-ing the international audience visiting St. Au-gustine.
“Like many families who recently arrived 
from Cuba, my mother and I lived in this over-crowded transitional space until my college years,” he said. “What I’ve tried to do is give a voice to these experiences that are at the core of every immigrant story.”  Cuban-born UF grads to sell 
paintings for hurricane relief 
Criswell
CRIME
BULLA CUBANA FESTIVAL EVENTS 
• The Lost Art Gallery exhibit at 210 St. George St. from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
• Music at the gallery Saturday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m., $20 per person entry donation
• Performers include Jax English Salsa Band, joined by Cuban vocalist Barbara Martin
• Dance performance by Jessie Dominguez, the principle dancer from the National 
    Ballet of Cuba and the Dance Alive National Ballet• Cash bar with wine and spirits; white or festival attire is optionalWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
1. FOOD & DRINK: Which plant 
sometimes is known as “pieplant” 
because its edible stalks often are used in desserts?
2. LITERATURE: Which of Shake-
speare’s plays features a character named Viola?
3. MOVIES: Which movie featured 
the theme song “You’ve Got a Friend In Me”?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who served 
as vice president of the U.S. for 82 
days before becoming president?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What two coun-
tries are connected by the Khyber 
Pass?
6. MUSIC: What bridge did Billie 
Joe jump off in Bobbie Gentry’s song 
“Ode to Billie Joe”?
7. ANATOMY: Where would the 
parietal bones be found in the human 
body?
8. RELIGION: What is the second 
book of the Old Testament?
9. GEOLOGY: What kind of natural 
stone is known as Carrara?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the official language of Bra-
zil?
Answers
1. Rhubarb2. “Twelfth Night”
3. “Toy Story”
4. Harry Truman5. Afghanistan and Pakistan6. The Tallahatchie bridge7. The skull8. Exodus9. Marble10. Portuguese
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 27, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Article
5 Die down
8 Military action
toys
14 Something
frowned upon
15 Graphic
introduction?
16 Harm
17 *U.S. Steel 
co-founder
19 Roofer’s supply20 “August: __
County”: Meryl
Streep film
21 Spinal column
part
23 Words on a
candy heart
25 “CHiPs” co-star
Erik
27 Newspaper VIPs
28 Crèche figure31 Like Parmesan
cheese
32 “Didn’t I tell you?”
33 Peas, for
shooters
34 Racetrack
equipment
36 *“Whiplash” Best
Supporting Actor
38 Wealthy
campaign donor
41 Picture framing
materials
42 Orch. section
45 “It’s not too early
to call”
46 Sprain support
47 Dove’s call48 New York
brewery knownfor its cream ale
51 College choices
54 Turncoat57 “Pardon me,” in
Palermo
58 Singer Warwick
59 *Peter Pan
creator
61 “Imagine so”62 Bird on
Australia’s coatof arms
63 Some celebs
have delicate
ones
64 “Almost ready”
65 Dollop66 Took off
DOWN
1 Humor for a
select few2 On the open deck
3 All together
4 Classic music
synthesizers
5 __ McMuffin
6 Cleaver
nickname
7 Talus or radius
8 Central points9 Small bay
10 *“Lost” co-creator11 Serious injustice
12 What may be
charged for
books?
13 French
possessive
18 Sleep acronym
22 Pickett’s Charge
soldier
24 Nightmare loc. of
film
26 Website pop-ups,
e.g.
29 Bordeaux buddy
30 Matriarchal
nickname
33 Wanted poster
initials
34 __ pole
35 MetLife’s
business: Abbr.
36 *Retail chain
founder
37 AAA handout38 Newton fruit
39 Explorer
Vespucci forwhom the New
World was
named
40 Turn a deaf ear to
42 Cause of
calamity
43 Twisting force
44 Most cheerful
46 Twinings product
49 Sixth __50 Cast out
52 Simile words
53 Clothing chain ...
or what theanswers to
starred clues
comprise?
55 Played mixes at
mixers, briefly
56 Jane Austen
novel
58 Racket
60 Mac
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/01/1703/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 24 Pets 19 Connections 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Jim McElwain talked 
quarterbacks, injuries and more after Florida's first Spring practice on Tuesday. Read the story, pg. 15Pair of UF women's basketball players earn SEC honors
Senior Ronni Williams and Freshman Delicia Washington were named to 
the All-SEC First team and the All-SEC Freshman T eam, respectively, the 
league announced Tuesday. Washington was also named the SEC Co-Fresh-man of the Year. SCHUYLER RIMMER
Schuyler Rimmer wasn’t supposed to be 
here.
An Orlando native, Stanford transfer and 
walk on at Florida, Rim-
mer had all but carved 
out his niche before this 
season began — scout 
team opponent, practice squad member and emer-gency option if Florida’s starting centers got in foul trouble.
But now, in his sec-
ond full season at UF, Rimmer has seen his 
minutes increase.
And he has taken advantage of it.
The 6-foot-10, 249-pound senior has 
served as a primary backup ever since start-ing center John Egbunu suffered a season-ending ACL tear in Auburn on Feb. 14. 
And while Rimmer’s play certainly 
doesn’t jump off the stat sheet — he’s com-piled just two points and three rebounds in 
the 16 total minutes he has played over the 
last three games — it has helped the Gators sustain their success as the regular season winds down.
UF coach Mike White wasn’t asked about 
Rimmer heading into Senior Day, but he felt compelled to mention Rimmer and praise what he has given the program. 
“Schuyler has been a great culture guy, 
a great program guy, positive energy every day,” White said. “(He) has really stepped up with some leadership this year.”
And with the SEC Tournament beginning 
next week, Florida will need all the veteran help it can get.CANYON BARRY
Once he graduates, Canyon Barry can 
do a lot of things.
He can be a nuclear engineer. He can 
play pro basketball over-seas. Or, if the right team 
comes calling, he could 
earn an NBA roster spot.
His father, NBA Hall 
of Famer Rick Barry, found that out while Canyon was barely old enough to tie his shoes.
“In the sixth grade,” 
Rick said, “he would basically dominate."
Barry joined Florida as a graduate trans-
fer from the College of Charleston over summer. It was a win-win scenario for both sides: Barry got the opportunity to earn his master’s degree in nuclear engineering from a respected university, and the Gators got an elite, experienced shooter and play-maker that they desperately needed. 
Although minor injuries have slowed 
his progress, Canyon has flashed his scor-ing ability in some key moments.
He scored 27 points against Georgia on 
Jan. 14, sinking five three-pointers. One month later, Canyon finished with a sea-son-high 30 points against Auburn, leading UF to a 19-point win over the Tigers on the road.
But his most impressive feat this season 
was making 42 consecutive free throws, breaking a program record.
“I think he’s a perfect guy for teams like 
San Antonio, the Golden State Warriors, the way they’re playing right now,” Rick said. “Canyon would thrive."JUSTIN LEON
Justin Leon left home in Arkansas for an 
opportunity — a community college scholar-ship in rural Illinois. So rural, UF coach Mike 
White even got lost on a dirt road looking for the 
campus.
But for White, Leon 
was worth the search. 
“This is my 17th year 
coaching,” White said, 
“and he’s the hardest-playing player I’ve ever coached, hands down.”
After two years at Shawnee Community 
College, Leon committed to Louisiana Tech under White before White was hired at UF to replace coach Billy Donovan. 
When White and his staff were settled 
at UF and had an additional scholarship to offer, they knew they wanted Leon. 
Two seasons later, White has labeled 
Leon the team’s “mad dog.” While that label can lend itself to benchwarmers, Leon has 
started every game this season and has a 
top-10 three-point percentage (40.4) in the SEC. 
And that’s after only taking two three-
pointers in high school, when he was a 6-foot-8 center.
As Leon got older, competition grew 
fiercer. He had to adjust his playing style, moving from the interior to the perimeter. 
White said Leon’s not their most talented 
player, but he helped rebuild UF’s culture. 
“He hasn’t got a bunch of accolades,” 
White said. “And he doesn’t care.
“It’s sad not being able to coach him four 
years or more.”Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill prepares to inbound the ball during UF's win over South Carolina on Feb. 21 in the O'Connell Center.
Four Gators say 
goodbye to O 'Dome
KASEY HILL
Kasey Hill came to Florida as a five-
star recruit and McDonald’s All-Ameri-
can in 2013. One of the top guards in 
the country, he was ex-pected to play one year for the Gators and then 
bolt for the NBA.
It didn’t work out 
that way.
A Final Four 
appearance, two head coaches and four years 
later, Hill has had an up-and-down career as both a reserve and starting point guard for the Gators, marred by turnover issues and poor shooting.
But Hill turned it around this season. His 9.5 points per game is a career 
high, and at 508 assists, Hill is behind only Erving Walker (547 assists) in career assists in program history.
“He’s been a great example of perse-
verance, of character, of work ethic, of filtering out the noise and continuing to do your job,” UF coach Mike White said 
of Hill. “He’s had a really solid season.”
The Umatilla, Florida, native takes 
the court at the O’Connell Center as a 
member of the Florida men’s basketball team for the last time tonight. 
But he’s not focused on that.“It’ll just be another day for me. I’m 
not a big emotion person,” Hill said. “I just want to go out and win.”Hill
 Barry
 Leon
 Rimmer
Staff report
Three special circumstances will set Florida’s 
matchup with Arkansas tonight apart.
It’s the Gators’ first game since No. 9 Kentucky 
snapped their nine-game win streak in Lexington on 
Saturday. It’s their last home game of the season in their newly renovated O’Connell Center. And it’s 
senior night, so our writers will re-introduce you to 
the four Gators — Kasey Hill, Justin Leon, Canyon 
Barry and Schuyler Rimmer — who will suit up for their last home game and will be honored before the 7 p.m. tipoff.   ONE LAST 
TIME14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
Baylor women’s basketball coach Kim 
Mulkey made some controversial comments over the weekend. Speak-ing to an audience at a basketball game, the championship-winning 
coach spoke — indirectly — about the sexual assault scandals gripping her school. 
“If somebody is around you and they ever 
say, ‘I will not send my daughter to Baylor,’” she told the crowd, “you knock them right in the face.”
Her speech was met by applause, but after 
the game, she was asked to clarify. 
“This is a great institution,” she told report-
ers. “The problems we have at Baylor are no different than the problems at any other school in America.”
But I don’t want to talk about Mulkey. In-
stead, I want to talk about Jason Whitlock. 
Whitlock is a talking head on Fox Sports 1, 
the opinion-focused network that has poached “talent” like Skip Bayless, Colin Cowherd and 
Whitlock himself from ESPN. 
Whitlock has become known for his un-
usual — and sometimes controversial — opin-ions, including what he had to say 
about Mulkey’s comments. 
“Consider Kim Mulkey a 
friend,” he wrote on Twitter. “Tremendous leader and human. Her contributions to advancement of female athletes speak louder than her critics.”
Like Mulkey’s own words, 
Whitlock’s struck me as being tone deaf. Maybe she is a great leader, but that doesn’t mean she’s immune to criticism when she says something questionable. And what 
she said is, at the very least, questionable. 
One of Whitlock’s followers, going by “The 
Coganator,” noticed the same thing and asked 
him about it. 
“Still…” he wrote, “do you think she 
misspoke or should’ve said nothing? Or media twisting it?”
Whitlock responded with a quote tweet 
minutes later. 
“Media twisting.” he wrote. “Any objective 
person knows exactly what she said.”
Saying that “any objective person” would see things the same way he does is pretty radical, but I’ll say this for Whitlock: It’s nice to see someone take the non-typical side of an issue. He’s not being par-ticularly mean about his views or anything — they’re just different. Which is ﬁ  ne. 
“It’s important to be tolerant of 
people’s impure and incomplete 
thoughts,” he once wrote on his blog, j.school, distinguishing between “thoughts” and “beliefs.”
That’s the good thing about Whitlock: even 
if you disagree with him, he expresses his views in a way that encourages productive dis-agreement. 
The bad thing about him is that, at least on 
the Mulkey issue, he assumes he’s right. 
It’s evident by his use of “media twisting.” 
In other words, if you don’t agree with him, you’re just a sheep succumbing to the inﬂ  uence 
of the mainstream media who can’t think for 
him/herself. 
Anyone who thinks “objectively” will obviously agree with him, because he’s the 
perfect thinker. 
This attitude permeates not just sports 
media, but media in general. 
Sean Hannity is always right. Rachel Maddow is always right. Stephen A. Smith is always right. And if you disagree, you can go f--- yourself. Why? Because as Fox Sports’ Clay Travis — 
another person who is always right — wrote in a recent column, if they weren’t always right, they wouldn’t have jobs. 
Being a contrarian pays. “Rufﬂ  ing feathers” 
pays. Being an a--hole pays. Nuanced discussion does not. 
And while many times Whitlock surely 
shares his true thoughts — his “objective” 
thoughts — it’s important to remember that 
he’s automatically biased, because he isn’t 
getting paid to say agreeable things. 
So if you’re someone who looks at him — 
or Maddow or Hannity or Stephen A. — and 
thinks, “Finally! Someone gets it,” think again. 
Or better yet, think for yourself. 
 Dear Facebook debaters: Siding with contrarians will never make you ‘woke’ 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Off the competition ﬂ  oor, 
Amelia Hundley is never without 
her trademark smile.
Before practice each week, she 
dances and jokes around with her 
teammates and has a knack for 
brightening a room.
But while 
the Hamilton, Ohio, native likes to have 
fun, she is a se-rious and ﬁ  erce competitor  
once her feet 
hit the mat.
Affection-
ately nicknamed “Meels” by her teammates and coaches, the standout gymnast was named the SEC Freshman of the Week after she turned in her best per-formance of the season on Friday 
against Missouri, which earned 
her the second all-around title of  her season.
Between her and her team-
mates Alex McMurtry (Gymnast of the Week) and Rachel Slocum (Specialist of the Week), Florida swept all of the SEC’s weekly awards.
“I went out this weekend and 
really competed for the team, and that’s what I put ﬁ  rst and fore-most,” Hundley said. “Just get-ting that award is icing on the cake.”
She posted a career best on 
ﬂ  oor (9.95) against the Tigers, and her all-around score of 39.625 
tied Florida’s second-highest all-
around total of the season, trail-ing only Alicia Boren (39.725).
Hundley is also the ﬁ  rst Florida freshman to win two or more all-around titles in a single season since former Olympian Bridget Sloan in 2013.
However, while she was able 
to put four solid routines togeth-er, that wasn’t the most exciting 
part of the meet for her.
It was two men sitting in the 
crowd, sandwiched between her 
parents.
Two of Hundley’s three broth-
ers, Conor and Steeler, made the trip to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time and sat front-row as their sister shined.
“I’ve been talking about them 
coming for months now,” Hund-ley said. “I think they really had fun, and got into (it) as much as we did. Well, kinda. As much as a brother can.”
It’s no surprise that just like 
her, her family is also athletic.
Conor was a running back 
at the University of Akron from 2012 to 2015, while Steeler played baseball at St. Xavier High School in Cincinnati.
Her mom, Sharon, owns a 
dance studio, which is where Hundley got her start.
The athletic gene was obvi-
ously not lost on her.
And though she couldn’t have 
asked for much of a better start to her collegiate career, which has included competing all-around in every meet this season, she isn’t satisﬁ  ed.
“I think I’ve had good events 
each week, but I haven’t put all four of my best events up yet,” 
Hundley said. “I’ll just keep do-
ing what I’ve been doing and put up the best routines that I can.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Hundley riding athletic 
genes to early successBy Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Nick Horvath trotted in from 
center ﬁ  eld. 
He exchanged gloves and took 
the mound.
The junior left-handed reliever 
needed just one out in the top of the 
ninth to send UCF, knocking on the door down 4-3 with two runners on, back to Orlando and earn Florida a midweek victory. 
“You gotta go right at him right 
from the get-go,” Horvath said.
On a full count, Horvath ﬂ  ung 
an 88-mph fastball toward Austin Grifﬁ  n. 
Grifﬁ  n whiffed. It was a familiar sight in No. 2 
Florida’s 4-3 victory over UCF on Tuesday night at McKethan Stadium. 
Just two innings prior, Horvath 
found himself in a similar jam. 
He fell behind 3-0 before working 
a full count to UCF’s Kam Gellinger while the Knights threatened with the bases loaded and two outs down 3-2 in the seventh. 
Gellinger tapped out to shortstop, 
ending yet another UCF chance at the hands of Horvath. 
“That kid’s nuts,” UF catcher 
Mark Kolozsvary said. “He can do everything on the ﬁ  eld.”
While Florida (7-1) was out-hit 
10-4, it still found a way to score runs thanks to the bottom of the lineup. 
In the third, nine-hole hitter Blake 
Reese mashed a double to the cen-terﬁ  eld wall that scored Kolozsvary. 
Then Reese scurried home on an er-
ror by UCF shortstop Brennan Boze-man to give UF a 2-0 lead. 
An inning later, Reese struck 
again. 
The sophomore centerﬁ  elder 
blooped a single to shallow center that plated Keenan Bell from second in the fourth, giving Florida a three-
run lead. 
The Knights fought back, how-
ever, in the sixth and seventh. 
After allowing two singles in the sixth, UF reliever Kirby McMullen 
was lifted in favor of Andrew Baker. The freshman limited the damage to one run — a product of a ﬁ  elder’s choice to Jonathan India. UCF then tacked on it’s second run via a ﬁ  eld-er’s choice as well.
Florida’s deciding run came off 
the bat of none other than Kolozs-vary. 
The junior blasted a solo homer 
to left center in the seventh, a shot that netted UF a 4-2 advantage and gave Kolozsvary a tie for the team lead in homers with two. 
Kolozsvary and Reese combined 
to go 3-for-5 with three RBIs and 
three runs while the rest of the lineup 
went 1-for-24. 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan wasn’t 
surprised by the pair’s production.
“I said it, I think, before the sea-
son started. I think our lineup is good at the bottom half,” he said, “and that’s why I was so encouraged about the offense and where it could be.”
Another encouraging sign for 
O’Sullivan on Tuesday night was the freshmen pitchers he was able to work in. 
Nate Brown, McMullen, Baker 
and Garrett Milchin combined to hold the Knights to two runs through 6.1 innings. McMullen and Milchin each made their ﬁ  rst career appear-ances.
Florida and UCF will meet again 
in Orlando tonight at 6:30 p.m. O’Sullivan said he expects to start 
sophomore right-hander Michael By-
rne against the Knights. 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org Florida  takes thriller vs. UCF
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueri
Hundley
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Nick Horvath pitches during UF’s win over William & Mary on Feb. 18.
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
GYMNASTICSWEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain had little of impor-
tance to say following Florida’s ﬁ  rst 
day of Spring practice, but he still said plenty when reporters asked him questions on Tuesday.
He started by remarking that the 
practice was competitive, and that players showed progress from last season to this season. He added that the team “attacked it” and “helped each other get better.”
Then he addressed the area 
everyone was sure to ask about: quarterbacks. 
He said all three signal callers 
— redshirt freshmen Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask and true freshman Kadarius Toney — played well for the most part and took “a bunch of reps,” though he wasn’t entirely positive.
“(They) threw it to our guys most 
of the time,” he said. “Occasionally 
threw it to the other guys.”
Overall, though, McElwain said 
he was impressed, noting that he 
could tell Trask and Franks put in work in the offseason.
He also talked about improve-
ment along the offensive line, saying  the unit played with quickness. He didn’t sound concerned when asked 
about junior Martez Ivey moving 
from guard to left tackle, saying that he was more worried about develop-ing depth at guard. 
“The thing we gotta do is re-
ally solidify a couple of those inside spots,” he said. “Brett Heggie had a good day today and Nick Buchanan, I’m proud of him. He played hard in 
there too.”Jeremiah Moon didn’t get a ﬂ  u 
shot
If you haven’t heard of Jeremiah 
Moon, it’s because he barely played 
last season. The then-freshman line-backer was sidelined early with a thumb injury and never came back. 
He was supposed to return Tues-
day but was out with a “sickness.”
McElwain didn’t elaborate on 
what he was sick with speciﬁ  cally, 
but he did give a strong hint.
“He was one guy who didn’t take 
his ﬂ  u shot … So there’s the lesson,” 
he said. “The lesson to be learned.”
The Gators were also missing of-
fensive lineman Kavaris Harkless and wideout Rick Wells, who both “had a leg.”
Josh Hammond loves hot 
sauce 
Hammond, a sophomore wide-
out, said he keeps a bottle of Crys-tal in his locker for his favorite food: chicken wings. But in addition to talking about food, he also talked about his position group, which is severely depleted to start the Spring. 
In addition to Hammond, the 
only other healthy receivers on Tues-day were Tyrie Cleveland, Antonio Callaway and Brandon Powell. Dre Massey, who missed the 2016 sea-son with a torn ACL, was also avail-able in non-contact drills. 
Despite the low numbers, McEl-
wain was still impressed with what the group was able to do. 
“There’s some guys out there 
that, you know, we were pressing the ﬁ  eld pretty good and they were getting up the ﬁ  eld,” he said. “That’s good to see.” 
“We’ve got Florida speed.” 
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.org Not much to report on 
from ﬁ  rst Spring practice
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Over the course of her 10 years 
at the helm of Florida women’s 
basketball, Amanda Butler has been anything but consistent.
The former UF guard has seen 
everything from solid 20-win sea-sons and multiple NCAA Tourna-ment victories to abysmal losing streaks and a bottom-three ﬁ  nish in the conference standings.
But if there is one thing that 
has been the same for the Gators since Butler was hired as their head coach in 2007, it’s been their 
play in the SEC Tournament.
Florida, regardless of how suc-
cessful or disastrous a regular 
season was, has struggled every single year in the conference post-season under Butler.
UF’s head coach is 5-9 all-time 
in the league tournament and has never advanced past the bracket’s 
quarterﬁ  nal round. The Gators 
have also lost ﬁ  ve of their last seven games in the competition, leading Butler to acknowledge the hardships that come with the SEC postseason.
“The conference tournament is 
brutal,” she said. “No matter what your bracket looks like, your ﬁ  rst 
round opponent … is someone 
that can put you on your butt.”
However, with a new year 
comes a new opportunity, and Butler is optimistic about her team’s chance at a successful March.
Florida, which concluded the 
regular season with a 14-15 re-
cord and went 5-11 in league play, 
kicks off its postseason today at 1:25 p.m. in the ﬁ  rst round of the SEC Tournament against Arkan-
sas.
The Razorbacks enter the 
bracket coming off a horrendous 
showing during their conference schedule, losing 14 of 16 games to ﬁ  nish dead last in the SEC stand-ings.
Florida defeated Arkansas 57-
53 on Feb. 9 in the only regular-
season meeting between the two 
teams. The game featured strong defensive effort and efﬁ  cient re-bounding from Florida.
“That was a great game for us 
in terms of building conﬁ  dence,” Butler said. “It was like, ‘Hey, wow, we can win these grind-it-out, low-scoring games that are more rooted out in defense than offense.’ I think that was really 
powerful for our team to realize 
about themselves.”
One advantage UF also has on 
its side is its 12-game road trip to begin the regular season while the O’Connell Center underwent ren-ovations. The Gators are the only team in the SEC this season to have played more than three con-
secutive games away from home, 
something Butler said gives her program an edge.
“It’ll be as beneﬁ  cial as we 
make it,” she said. “I think it’s a giant advantage.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
SEC Tournament begins today
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
UF coach Amanda Butler looks on during Florida’s 65-58 win 
over Georgia on Sunday in the O’Connell Center. 
FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
UF plays Arkansas at 1:25WOMEN’S BASKETBALL16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist looks on during UF’s win over Oklahoma State on Feb. 18.
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
WEDNESDAY:
• Baseball @ UCF, 6:30 p.m.
• Men's basketball vs. Arkansas, 7 p.m., ESPN2
• Women's basketball vs. Arkansas @ SEC T ournament, 
1:25 p.m., SEC Network
THURSDAY:
• Softball vs. Iowa in Fullerton, California, 3 p.m.
• Softball vs. Long Beach State in Fullerton, California, 8:30 p.m.
• Women's basketball @ SEC T ournament, 8:30 p.m., SEC Network (if necessary)
FRIDAY:
• Baseball vs. Columbia, 6:30 p.m., SECN+
• Women's tennis @ LSU, 5 p.m.
• Men's tennis vs. T exas A&M, 5 p.m.
• Softball vs. California in Fullerton, California, 5:30 p.m.
• Women's basketball @ SEC T ournament QF, 8:30 p.m., SEC Network (if necessary)
• Softball vs. UCLA in Fullerton, California, 10:30 p.m.
SATURDAY:
• Men's basketball @ Vanderbilt, 2 p.m., ESPN
• Baseball vs. Columbia, 4 p.m., SECN+
• Softball vs. Northwestern in Fullerton, California, 3 p.m.
• Women's basketball @ SEC T ournament SF, 7:30 p.m., ESPNU (if necessary)
SUNDAY:
• Lacrosse @ T owson, noon
• Baseball vs. Columbia, 1 p.m., SECN+
• Gymnastics @ LSU, 3:30 p.m., SEC Network
• Women's tennis @ T exas A&M, noon
• Men's tennis vs. LSU, 1 p.m.
• Women's basketball @ SEC T ournament Final, 3 p.m., ESPN2 (if necessary)