We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorFlorida clinches third straight CWS 
Berth
UF defeated Wake Forest 3-0 in game three of 
the Gainesville Super Regional, pg. 13Mother given DUI
GPD arrested a woman for driving under the inﬂ  uence with her two children in the backseat, pg. 4
Local mural defaced
Within a day of being painted, a 34th Street mural was de-
faced, upsetting many Gainesville residents, pg. 8VOLUME 111 ISSUE 154 TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
THE RALL Y WAS ONE OF 
MANY NATIONWIDE.
By David Hoffman 
& Catie Wegman 
Alligator Staff Writers
For a brief moment Sunday af-
ternoon, despite hundreds of peo-
ple packed closely together in the Gainesville summer heat, Bo Diddley Community Plaza was still. 
The plaza served as a gathering 
place for those who spent their after-noon marching for LGBTQ+ rights, 
honoring the 49 lives lost just one 
year ago at a mass shooting inside of Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
One by one, the names and ages 
of each victim were read aloud from the stage.
Some bowed their heads, others 
fought back tears. All fell silent.
“May you rest in power,” orga-
nizer Diana Moreno said, honoring those who died.
Moreno told the crowd that Mon-
day marked exactly one year since the tragedy, which was one of the deadliest mass shootings in U.S. his-tory.
Before they gathered Sunday for a 
rally downtown, more than 400 com-munity members demonstrated in the national Equality March for Unity and Pride in solidarity with tens of 
thousands across the country. The 
central march took place in Washing-ton D.C. on Sunday, according to The Associated Press. 
Rev. Catherine Dearlove, a pastor 
with the Trinity Metropolitan Com-munity Church of Gainesville, said she felt a degree of urgency when helping to organize the march. As 
soon as she heard about the march in 
Washington D.C., Dearlove said she and about 11 other local organizers began coordinating the Gainesville-area event, which was hosted by the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida.
The voice of hate is growing in 
the U.S., Dearlove said.
“It’s really important for us to 
stand together in solidarity, espe-cially with the date coinciding with 
Pulse,” the 53-year-old said.
Along the east edge of the plaza’s 
center, organizers prepared tables 
with poster displays to honor those in the LGBTQ+ community who have died. 
Photos of every life lost at Pulse 
last year were displayed on the post-ers. A separate display, titled “Trans Lives Matter,” bore the photos and names of 32 transgender men and 
women who have been murdered in 
the U.S. since the beginning of 2016.  
“I think every person makes 
up the rainbow of diversity in Gainesville,” said Dearlove, the vice president of the Pride Community Center. “It’s important that ... we make the voice of love louder than the voice of hate.”
The somber remembrances of the 
Pulse tragedy and the calls to action for LGBTQ+ rights were matched by participants’ optimism and high spirits.  
In between the rally’s featured 
speakers, organizers blasted uplift-ing songs like Gloria Gaynor’s “I Will Survive” and Sister Sledge’s “We Are Family” throughout the plaza.
Gainesville resident Woody Blue 
was quick to jump up and rally 
those around her to dance to every 
song that played through the stage’s speakers.
Wearing a handmade cape com-
prised of gay-pride related patches, the 65-year-old participated in Sun-day’s festivities from start to ﬁ  nish. Blue, who has lived in Gainesville for 25 years, said the city is more pro-
gressive than others in regard to LG-
BTQ+ rights. “I think it all boils down to per-
sonal issues,” Blue said. “Some 
people are very homophobic and are 
very afraid of gays and whatever rep-resents them.”
Dozens of residents who partici-
pated in the march brought their chil-dren to immerse them in a positive LGBTQ+ environment. 
Erin O’Donnell, 37, said she 
brought her children because they 
need to be educated in how to sup-
port the LGBTQ+ community.
“I think it’s the only way to ﬁ  x the 
problem,” she said.
O’Donnell said she thought the 
issue of LGBTQ+ rights would have been resolved by the time she grew up. Evidently it was not, O’Donnell said. 
She said she doesn’t know if it 
will be resolved by the time her own children grow up.
***
At about 2 p.m., more than 250 
marchers began the daylong rally at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave. They planned to make their way through downtown Gainesville on South Main Street, eventually ending on Bo Diddley Plaza. 
Despite the overcast skies and hu-
mid air, spirits were high.
Marchers chanted “Hey hey — ho ho — homophobia’s got to go,” “Trans Lives Matter” and “I’m gay, 
that’s OK.“ 
Demonstrators held signs ﬁ  rm 
and high. Some read, “We’re united 
and it feels so good!” and “Make the Army gay again.” 
Cars passing by honked and 
wooed in solidarity.
***
While Sunday’s local Equal-
ity March mirrored more than 100 across the country, organizers Diana Moreno and Shirley Rodriguez — the two who recited the names and ages of the Pulse victims at the start of the rally — said they aimed for the expe-rience on Bo Diddley Plaza to reach a wider and more inclusive scope.  
An activist with Gainesville’s 
community group Madres Sin Fron-teras (Mothers Without Borders), Moreno emphasized the intersec-
tion between the immigrant and LG-
BTQ+ communities. 
Moreno, the third featured speak-
er to take the stage Sunday, said one of the greatest issues facing the LG-BTQ+ community is the safety of undocumented gay or transgender people of color, who are reluctant to seek support in their sexual identity 
because of their immigration status.
“There’s an intersection between immigrants and LGBT people that 
isn’t represented enough,” said the 
29-year-old Ecuadorian. “They’re the 
most vulnerable.” 
Rodriguez, 27, spoke of giving a 
voice to the transgender community speciﬁ  cally, a group she said often goes overlooked when speaking of LGBTQ+ rights. 
“A lot of marches that have hap-
pened, speciﬁ  cally national marches, 
had really great intentions — but 
have fallen short in providing that space (for transgender rights),” said Rodriguez, who identiﬁ  es as queer.
Sunday’s rally was signiﬁ  cant in 
both its message of equality and its speciﬁ  c focus on including the voices of women of color who are transgen-der and those who identify as queer, 
Rodriguez said. 
“The voices of the most margin-
alized are the voices that need to be 
heard,” she said. “So we wanted to make sure in Gainesville, although it’s not perfect by any means, to make sure we start on that pledge.”
UF psychology senior Chloe Gold-
bach was the last speaker to take the 
stage. 
To the group of about 150 who 
stayed on the plaza until the rally’s 
end, Goldbach said as a transgender lesbian woman she’s been called a freak, a man and an “it.”
“We need to trust that transgen-
der people are who they say they are, and not consistently question their 
identity because they don’t meet a 
preconceived gender construct,” the 27-year-old said. 
Goldbach, the co-chair of trans-
gender community group Alachua TranQuility, said she’s glad organiz-ers of Sunday’s local march openly included the transgender commu-nity.
Goldbach said important trans-
gender issues such as increased rates of violence against transgender wom-en of color, are not prioritized — even among like-minded individuals.
“Even within our LGBT commu-
nity until recently, trans rights have largely been overlooked,” she said. 
Sporting the transgender ﬂ  ag col-
ors — pink, blue and white — with her freshly dyed hair and striped T-shirt, Goldbach said the main thing she wants people to take away from the Equality March is the importance of bringing people together. 
“We’re all human,” she said. “We 
all have many more things in com-mon than most of us like to say. We 
should all be ﬁ  ghting for the same 
things.” 
‘Rest in Power’: Gainesville Equality March honors victims 
of Pulse nightclub shooting and celebrates LGBTQ+ pride
Ben Anderson / Alligator Staff
After making the one-mile Gainesville Equality March for Unity and Pride from Depot Park, 20-year-
old UF telecommunication junior Juan Aguerrevere displayed his LGBTQ+ pride while listening to speakers on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave. 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AM PM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonHIGH  85° LOW  70°NOON
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Laugh Local for a Cause
Gainesville Improv Guild will 
host its second annual charity show Wednesday. Awareness and money will be raised for the St. Francis House homeless shel-ter. The night will include live music, two sets of improv com-edy, a raffle drawing and several silent auctions. Doors will open at 7:15 p.m., and tickets are $10 
cash at the door. The show is at 
Trilogy School, located at 8700 NW 23rd Ave.Become #InvolvedUF at 
Gatormania
The largest summer event on 
campus, Gatormania 2017, will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. on the North Lawn. Start Summer B with free food, giveaways and live performances. For more in-formation, visit studentinvolve-ment.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. VOLUME 111 ISSUE 154
1
1312111098765432The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 7. Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, July 10 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the public on July 27 at 10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Photos by Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff
LEFT: Erin O’Donnell, 37, brought her children to the Gainesville Equality March for Unity and 
Pride on Sunday. O’Donnell emphasized the importance of teaching children how to support the 
LGBTQ+ community. 
ABOVE: Hundreds of Gainesville residents listened to guest speaker Donn Smith at the Gainesville 
Equality March for Unity and Pride on Sunday afternoon on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Smith 
encouraged community members  to take direct action in the ﬁ  ght for LGBTQ+ rights.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
By Felicia Vega
Alligator Contributing Writer
CodeRED is shutting down June 30, 
and AlertAlachua will become the primary 
emergency notiﬁ  cation system for Alachua County. 
Jeffery Bielling, the assistant director of 
Alachua County Emergency Management, said the switch was made because the Florida Division of Emergency Management offered it at no cost. 
“That saved us $45,000 a year,” he said.John Shaw, the director of Alachua 
County Emergency Management, said AlertAlachua is also more user-friendly. He said subscribers can customize what alerts they receive and prioritize how they receive them. 
AlertAlachua provides the option to receive missing person alerts, boil notice orders and 22 different weather alerts. It provides the option to receive these alerts via email, text message, phone call, TTY (a 
text telephone) or the ContactBridge app.
The app also provides messages and a 
map, which shows every alert in the U.S.
Residents of Alachua County are 
encouraged to sign up for AlertAlachua 
because of the severe weather alerts and targeted location warnings, Bielling said. 
Students, especially those who live off-
campus, are also encouraged to sign up, even though UF has its own alert system. 
“UF Alert is designed for university 
facilities, but AlertAlachua is designed for the entire community,” said Kenneth Allen, the director of UF Emergency Management. “It is important to have a way and a method to be notiﬁ  ed when an alert is sent out.” 
Alachua County’s emergency notiﬁ  cation system changesBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was arrested 
on DUI charges Saturday night after 
driving with her two-year-old and four-
year-old children in the backseat.
Her blood alcohol content was 
nearly four times the legal limit, ac-
cording to a Gainesville Police arrest report. 
Jehan Daniels, 23, is accused of 
driving recklessly while under the in-
ﬂ  uence and with a suspended license, 
causing a car accident and putting her 
children in danger, according to the 
report.
Police ﬁ  rst received word of Daniels 
at about 10:30 p.m. when Gainesville resident Aaron Kahn called 911 and said he was following a 2007 blue Mazda5 near the intersection of North-west Sixth Street and West University 
Avenue, according to the report.
As Daniels traveled toward UF’s 
campus, Kahn told police the car had 
driven on the sidewalk and swerved in and out of its lane multiple times, according to the report. Kahn stopped following Daniels when she sped through the changing streetlight at the 
intersection of Northwest 13th Street and West University Avenue.
Gainesville Police’s helicopter,  
AIR-1, was in the air at the time and followed Daniels’ car as she swerved 
along the road near Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, said GPD spokesperson Of-ﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Tobias said Daniels then contin-
ued driving on Southwest Second Avenue before turning on Northwest 
25th Street and heading back for West 
University Avenue. She stopped at the intersection but nearly drove into on-coming trafﬁ  c.
Daniels spontaneously tried turning 
left onto West University Avenue, pull-ing forward and colliding with another 
car, according to the report.
When police arrived, Daniels asked 
if she could drive herself home, not re-
alizing her car was wrecked, according 
to report.
Police noticed a heavy smell of al-
cohol from Daniels as she spoke and 
conducted ﬁ  eld sobriety tests. Her blood alcohol content was 0.318, To-bias said. The legal limit in Florida is 
below 0.08, nearly four times less than 
Daniels’ level.
Police said Daniels went through 
intense mood swings and called the ar-
resting ofﬁ  cer a “dumba-- kracka” and said his “people” used to own “her people,” according to the report.
Daniels’ two 
children were in the backseat dur-ing the accident, according to the report. Both were uninjured and were later picked up by 
their grandparents, who responded from out of town, Tobias said.
GPD rarely sees cases of drunk 
driving that involve children as pas-sengers, he said. 
Daniels faces a charge of DUI and 
driving with a suspended license, as 
well as two charges of child neglect. 
As of Monday evening, she remains 
in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a 
$150,000 bond. 
Tobias said police can’t be every-
where at once and is glad Khan took initiative when he did to call the au-thorities.
“We thoroughly appreciate the 
public acting as extra eyes and ears 
for us,” Tobias said. “The safety of the 
city depends on all of us working to-
gether.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgMother charged with DUI after 
driving with two kids in her car
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Dunnellon man and woman 
were arrested Sunday after police 
said they stole more than $150 worth of clothing from Wal-Mart and resisted arrest.
Mikhail Christopher McKen-
zie, 27, and Lorraine Gardner, 20, entered the Wal-Mart in But-ler North, located at 2900 SW 42nd St., at about 1 p.m. and began packing clothes into bags, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report. 
McKenzie placed eight cloth-
ing items, totaling $91, into his Wal-Mart shopping bags, and Gardner placed six, totaling $67.72, into her reusable shop-ping bag, according to the report. McKenzie left the store with the bags without paying and walked  to his car. 
Gardner tried to leave the 
store with her bags but was stopped by Wal-Mart employee Brent Chewning, according to the report. Gardner pushed Chewn-ing out of the way and ran from the location, dropping her stolen items. 
McKenzie tried driving away 
when he made eye contact with a patrol ofﬁ  cer. He then drove across Southwest 42nd Street into the parking lot of Jersey Mike’s Subs, according to the report. 
The ofﬁ  cer drove after McK-
enzie and yelled for him to stop and said, “You’re only going to add more charges,” according to the report. McKenzie stopped af-ter turning back from a dead end and running a stop sign inside the lot.
Once police arrested Gardner, 
she began kicking the patrol car 
door, dealing about $1,000 in 
damages, according to the report. 
McKenzie faces charges of pe-
tit theft, driving with a suspended license and ﬂ  eeing arrest. Gard-ner faces charges of petit theft and criminal mischief. 
As of Monday evening, both 
remain in the Alachua County 
Jail, each in lieu of a $15,000 
bond. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgGPD: Pair steal from 
local Wal-Mart
Daniels
TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Courtesy to the Alligator
On June 22 at 10 a.m., three Gainesville city pools — Andrew 
R. Mickle, Sr. Pool, Dwight H. Hunter (Northeast) Pool and H. Spurgeon Cherry (Westside) Pool — will host a free 30-minute swim lesson as part of The World’s Largest Swimming Lesson event in an attempt to once again break a world record.
By Salim Douaihy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents will have 
the opportunity to once again par-
ticipate in a record-setting swim lesson.
In 2010, The World’s Largest 
Swimming Lesson was introduced by the World Waterpark Associa-tion. Seven years later, the City of Gainesville’s Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department is continuing its efforts to help the organization set another world record — all while raising aware-ness about how important it is to 
learn how to swim.
Last year, The World’s Larg-
est Swimming Lesson had a total 
of 40,298 participants in 24 coun-tries. Gainesville city pools had 253 participants. 
On June 22 at 10 a.m., three 
city pools — Andrew R. Mickle, Sr. Pool, Dwight H. Hunter (North-
east) Pool and H. Spurgeon Cherry 
(Westside) Pool — will host a free 30-minute swim lesson as part of the event.
“Our biggest concern is just making sure people are aware that there are opportunities in the city, whether they be at our facilities or not, to attend swim lessons,” said Scott Chase, the interim program coordinator for the parks and rec-reation department. “The city has 
made it a point to try to make the 
swim lesson program here as ac-cessible and affordable as pos-sible.” 
According to the Center for Dis-
ease Control, drowning is the lead-ing cause of injury-related death for children between the ages of 1 and 4 in the U.S. It’s the second-
leading cause of death for children 
under 14.
For families with young chil-
dren who live in Florida, wa-ter-safety skills are especially critical, said Latecia Richards, a Gainesville mother who is plan-ning on attending this year’s event with her 10-year-old son.
“Water safety is something that 
I deﬁ  nitely worry about,” Richards said. “I think that learning how to swim is the bare minimum skill needed to remain safe around the water.”Advance registration for the 
event is not required to participate, and all skill levels are welcome. In the event of bad weather, Chase said the lesson will be canceled and will likely not be rescheduled.
Due to the time and expenses 
involved with the accreditation process, the World Waterpark As-sociation has not submitted docu-mentation to Guinness World Re-cords for any kind of ofﬁ  cial world record since 2014, said Aleatha Ezra, the director of park member development for the World Water-park Association.
Despite the fact that the feat 
won’t be entered in the record book, Ezra said event organizers are hoping to surpass last year’s numbers and set an eighth world record with this year’s event. 
“This is a very big issue that 
we feel has a solution,” she said. “Learning to swim is just as im-
portant as putting on a seatbelt 
when you get into a car or putting a helmet on when you get on a bi-cycle. We want to spread the mes-sage that swimming lessons save lives.”
GNV pools to participate in The World’s Largest Swimming Lesson
CAMPUS
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Trung Tran remembers June 12, 
2016, clearly. 
As a night owl, Tran recalls 
his phone continuously ringing as 
friends and loved ones called to make sure he was OK after a shoot-ing took place at Pulse nightclub, a 
popular LGBTQ+ club in Orlando. 
Tran, a 21-year-old UF com-
puter engineering senior from Or-
lando, said he was glad he was in Gainesville at the time.  
“It was really scary because a lot 
of my friends were worried some-thing happened to me,” he said. 
On Monday night, about 50 UF 
students, faculty and Gainesville residents came together in Ustler Hall to sing, talk and recite a poem 
about how the shooting affected 
them as either allies for the LG-BTQ+ community or members of it. 
Vice President for Student Af-
fairs David Parrott spoke to the au-dience about love and unity defeat ing hate.
“In the aftermath of the attack, 
it is love that would and will help 
us overcome,” he said. “In the face 
of these tragic events, our students, faculty, staff and the community 
band together to respond to the 
hate with reafﬁ  rming care, support and love.”
After Parrott gave his speech, UF 
alumna Jessica Grobman spoke to the audience.
“Today I stand here with a 
heavy heart and a saddened spirit,” 
she said. “My soul is weary for a 
community that gives so much in culture, education, beauty, power and knowledge, but is yet time and time again met with hatred and tragedy.”
Grobman read the names of the 
49 victims of the shooting, stopping several times to catch her breath 
and wipe away tears.
She also sang a song about the 
“injustice the queer community of 
color faces” on a regular basis. The 
song included lyrics such as, “I was 
here, I lived, I loved” and “I will make my mark so everyone will know I was here.”
Once Grobman ﬁ  nished singing, 
Dr. Zully Rivera-Ramos, who works at UF’s Counseling & Wellness Cen-ter, read an excerpt from a message the National Latina/o Psychological Association (NLPA) sent out Mon-
day and asked the audience to re-
ﬂ  ect on the passage.The remembrance ended with 
speakers and audience members hugging and crying tears of both sadness and joy.
UF President Kent Fuchs attend-
ed the ceremony as well and said he felt the need to support “our wonderful community that has been affected.”
He said he has a picture of Cen-
tury Tower lit with rainbow colors framed in his ofﬁ  ce.
“One of my favorite memories 
as president was when Century Tower was lit with rainbow col-
ors,” he said.
UF students, faculty remember victims of Pulse shootingThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Comey’s testimony did not incriminate Trump
Former FBI Director James Comey 
testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee last Thursday regarding 
possible obstruction of justice by President 
Donald Trump in the FBI’s investigation 
of collusion between his campaign and the Russian government. Trump’s political 
opponents desperately hoped Comey would 
show that Trump’s behavior provided grounds for impeachment. While Comey’s words showed he did not trust the president and believed the president wanted to dismiss the investigation of Michael 
Flynn, a former national security advisor, I believe it 
yielded nothing incriminating. In fact, I think it did more to clear Trump’s name. 
Comey assured the president three times that he was 
not the subject of any FBI investigation, although Comey refused to announce this publicly out of an irrational fear of having another former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton investigation fiasco on his hands. He also added that there was no evidence of any collusion between Trump 
and Russia. Trump was so pleased with this testimony he 
called it a “complete vindication.”  
While testifying, much to the pleasure of Republicans, 
Comey shifted the spotlight from Trump to the Department 
of Justice under former President Barack Obama. His 
testimony raised more questions about possible political influence by former Attorney General Loretta Lynch on the investigation of Clinton’s emails. According to Comey, Lynch directed him to call the Clinton investigation a 
“matter” (the word the Clinton campaign used to downplay 
the investigation) rather than an “investigation.” This directive reportedly made Comey feel “queasy” but did not stop him from obeying.  
The DOJ is supposed to be an impartial, apolitical body 
that can independently assess possible criminal behavior regardless of its employees’ political beliefs. Asking the director of the FBI to soften the rhetoric regarding an active criminal investigation of a presidential candidate seems anything but apolitical. If there 
was reason to suspect Trump had obstructed 
justice by “hoping” the investigation turned out the way he wanted, there is more reason to suspect the same from Lynch, who actually 
took action to alter the Clinton investigation.  
While on the surface this is not incriminating 
behavior and does not qualify as obstruction of 
justice, not all of the facts are known. Recall that Lynch met 
with former President Bill Clinton on a tarmac in Phoenix 
in June 2016 days before Comey announced publicly 
that the FBI did not recommend a further investigation of Hillary Clinton. This shady meeting, which Lynch forbade any government witnesses to speak of, was highly 
inappropriate because of the obvious conflict of interest 
and suggests that Bill Clinton could have influenced the investigation. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham has already declared that he wants to “hear from Loretta Lynch” in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Even 
Democrats acknowledge the clear problem with Lynch’s 
behavior, as Sen. Dianne Feinstein called for Congress to investigate Lynch as well. 
Instead of finding evidence incriminating Trump as 
Democrats expected, Comey’s testimony uncovered reasons to investigate Lynch. Unfortunately, there are still people who will oppose this purely for political reasons despite the seriousness of its ramifications. If the DOJ has been influenced by politics, the legitimacy of every one of 
its decisions will be undermined and called into question. 
Both sides of the aisle should agree that a politicized DOJ is a threat to our political system, not on the Trump and Russia collusion charges, which have proven completely 
baseless. 
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column appears on 
Tuesdays.Don’t let college 
life overwork you
Something we’ve noticed about UF students is that 
they all have a common undying need to succeed.
We go to one of the top public schools in the 
country, and we definitely didn’t get here by dragging our feet and screwing around all throughout high 
school. Most of us took Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate classes, were involved in at least five clubs, 
held leadership positions in at least three of them and 
played multiple varsity sports. We told ourselves we had 
to be perfect and successful, or we wouldn’t get into the 
college of our dreams. We reasoned that the immense stress 
we put ourselves under was nothing less than collateral 
damage for reaching our goals.
When we came to UF, our hunger for supremacy did 
not subside. Each of us felt responsible to keep our parents full of pride and ourselves occupied to our fullest capacity. Many of us joined Greek life before we could even find our way to the Student Recreation & Fitness Center. We joined 
every club that seemed even remotely interesting to us. We 
found jobs on campus, got internships, formed study groups 
and made entirely new lives for ourselves — most of us 
doing so before we even made it to our first football game. 
As neophyte college students, we didn’t think twice 
about the amount of pressure we were putting ourselves under. Our activities and responsibilities didn’t seem too far off from what we had handled in high school, so what could 
possibly be so different now? The answer is everything. 
When you come to college, everything changes, and you have to readjust and figure out what your new normal is. 
Most of us didn’t bother finding our new normal, because 
we didn’t know we needed to. This left us several months into school, overwhelmed and drowning in stress. 
We think it is important for UF students — and all 
college students for that matter — to realize that it’s OK to find a new normal. It’s OK not to be president of six clubs, 
play varsity sports and maintain a 4.0 GPA. In college, this 
lifestyle is not realistic for most people, and it doesn’t need to be. We all need a little time to ourselves and some time 
to live our lives.
This shift that we go through makes a lot of us feel like 
failures. We start to question why we aren’t able to operate like we have all our lives. Have we become lazy? Are we not 
as successful as we used to be? How is everyone else doing this so easily? These are the questions we asked ourselves 
over and over again until we feel disappointed in ourselves 
and our accomplishments.
We, as college students, need to stop overloading 
ourselves. We need to realize that what we do is enough.
This isn’t to say, of course, that we shouldn’t be involved 
on campus or that we shouldn’t strive for good grades and 
big accomplishments. It means that we need to recognize 
our limits. It’s OK to fall short of what you originally 
thought you could handle. It’s OK to say no and quit the 
things that are least important to you. It’s OK to prioritize 
your sanity over your resume, and it’s OK not to be perfect 
100 percent of the time.
We believe every college student should feel comfortable 
and confident during their college experience. We believe the key to success is identifying your limits and coming to 
terms with the fact that you can’t have it all. We must make 
sacrifices and decide what is most beneficial to us in the long run. When we come to terms with the fact that we are 
all mortal, nothing can stop us in our journey to excellence 
and success.Jack Story
opinions@alligator.orgIf 2016 was the year of realizing things, then 
2017 is the year of trying things.
Honest efforts of understanding and 
engaging intersectionality are rarely publi-
cized through the media, especially social 
media. Instead we are more likely to hear 
about instances where ignorance prevails over equality. The ﬁ  ctional stories of most charac-ters of a particular Netﬂ  ix show reﬂ  ect real 
circumstances. To better inform yourself on 
dangerous circumstances where inequality and 
injustice are the norm, catch up with the rest of a community that allows a show to make them sit down and listen.
“Orange Is the New Black,” a popular Net-
ﬂ  ix series, shows a reality. The show takes place in a prison — a place known to have systemic ﬂ  aws — and spotlights struggles that women from different backgrounds experience 
in comparison to others in the U.S. who have 
their achievements laid out ahead of them.
The characters openly discuss race, among 
other identities, as reasons for where they rank among their peers in the pris-
on cells. The women of Litchﬁ  eld Penitentiary question whether they would be treated the same way if 
they were men. If they were per-
ceived as heftier and more intimi-
dating, would they be neglected and demeaned as they are? 
If someone feels they don’t un-
derstand the feminist movement, it 
may be for one of two reasons. 
First, they may refute everything 
feminists stand for by arguing that it is illogical 
to be so radical, and believe that being radi-
cal never progressed anywhere. In “Orange Is 
the New Black,” the oppression these female 
inmates face (from the guards, the law, other prisoners, nonprisoners and men, speciﬁ  cally) is symbolic of what women go through in 
everyday life. The show is dramatized, but it 
feeds the ﬁ  re that calls for the inmates to stand 
up for themselves.
The second reason the feminist movement is often confused as a negative notion is because there is an inconsistency in its deﬁ  nition. There is no such thing as “bad” feminism; there is 
such a thing as privileged feminism. 
“Orange Is the New Black” calls out 
the often unspoken truth that not all feminists support each other be-cause one has status over another, 
and they use it to their advantage. 
Without giving away spoilers to the 
new season, I can conﬁ  dently say 
that race is a deﬁ  ning theme of every season. If the writers haven’t pushed stereotypes on dif-
ferent kinds of generalized American women, 
they haven’t made their point, which is that 
different identities in a woman (or any other person, for that matter) play a part in the vol-ume of their voice. Feminists don’t look down 
on others for their lack of immediate participa-
tion in the movement or the way they express 
their support, but rather, they look down on others for their silence in the movement and failure to understand perspectives and/or ex-periences that differ from theirs. It’s the re-sounding truth that has been around for a long time, and it hasn’t gone away.
The importance of this show, in the name 
of intersectionality, is the way that it deﬁ  nes feminism, something that is often misunder-stood.
It is a power and it has a responsibility 
to educate people that there are problems 
to address. One identity is not better than 
the other, but it remains a truth that people from multiple backgrounds can experience, have experienced and will continue to expe-
rience. The inmates of Litchﬁ  eld Penitentiary 
reveal the basic treatment and mistreatment 
that women face on a regular basis, and they make a point to say there is not one type of woman; intersectional feminism acknowl-
edges different walks of life.
Karla Arboleda is a journalism and inter-
national studies senior. Her column appears 
on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Attentio/n.end Alligator 
Advertiser/s.end!
CLASSIFIED 373-FIND
DISPLAY 376-4482The Alligator will not 
publish from Mon., June 
19th through Fri., June 23rd
The deadline for 
Tuesday, June 27th is 
Fri., June 16th by 4:00 p.m. 
for Display & Classiﬁed Advertising
'You've Got Time' to watch 'Orange Is the New Black' on Netflix
Karla 
Arboleda
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
On Saturday morning, 15 vol-
unteers from Women’s March 
Gainesville painted a mural called “Seeds of Resistance: Best Planted Together” on the 34th Street Wall, 
illustrating their stance on contro-
versial topics such as immigration, health care and LGBTQ+ rights. 
Only one day after it was painted, the mural was defaced. Those who painted over the mural wrote their own opinions about the issues dis-played, linking those in the “resis-tance” to autism, dubbing those who identify as LGBTQ+ with having a “mental disorder” and replacing 
the “Black Lives Matter” with “Blue 
Lives Matter.”
“Yeah Right” was spray-painted 
over a sign that said “Stop Climate Change.” 
“No” was written over a sign that said “Welcome Immigrants.”
On Sunday night, a group un-
affiliated with Women’s March Gainesville painted over some of the comments. 
Pamela Smith, a volunteer with 
Women’s March Gainesville, said 
she was not surprised that others 
wanted to remove the hate displayed by the defacement.
“I understand the pain of peo-
ple who are personally touched by things such as autism,” Smith said. Smith originally had the idea to 
paint the mural. She said she worked very hard to organize the painting event. 
Smith said a lot of work went into 
the project and, because volunteers were proud of what they were doing, 
they were more than willing to help. 
Painting the mural was a won-
derful experience, Smith said. Spirits 
were high, and the volunteers were having a great time. 
“We were just happy,” she said. 
“It was an incredible feeling.” 
On Sunday afternoon, Smith 
said Women’s March Gainesville 
received an inquiry explaining that 
someone had seen a single man de-facing the mural while driving down 34th Street.
Although the man added many 
changes to the mural, Smith said the most derogatory change was the ad-dition of the word autism. The man adjusted the mural to read “Seeds of 
Autism” as opposed to “Seeds of Re-
sistance,” adding snowflakes across the wall.
Last month, a Fox News contrib-
utor mocked a 10-year-old child with autism by calling him a snowflake, according to a Washington Post ar-ticle. 
Smith said the fact that autism 
did not have anything to do with this mural appalled her.
Ann-Marie Orlando, the associate 
director of UF’s Center for Autism and Related Disabilities, said mock-ing anybody in general is wrong, but to mock a group of people who have nothing to do with the statements on the mural is cruel. 
“It saddens me, and I think it just 
reiterates the importance of making sure that people learn about individ-uals who have disabilities and learn about the ways they can contribute to our society,” Orlando said. 
Smith added that despite what 
occurred Sunday, she does not con-sider the time spent painting the mu-
ral wasted. The painting will live on, 
she said.
Smith said she recognizes the de-
facement of the mural is free speech, but she wishes the man would have written his comments on his own mural instead of on theirs. She add-ed that Women’s March Gainesville met Monday night to discuss what to 
do next about this situation.
In an email, GPD spokesperson 
Officer Ben Tobias said when it 
comes to the murals on the wall, you have to take the good with the bad.
“All graffiti is technically against 
Florida law,” Tobias said, “but there has been an unwritten rule for many years in Gainesville that law enforce-
ment does not enforce the graffiti 
laws.”
Tobias said although there is no 
supervision of the wall, Keep Ala-chua County Beautiful and residents tend to remove “offensive” material rather quickly. 
Brittani Sahm, a UF mass com-
munication Ph.D. student, said she 
thinks it was disgusting for someone 
to treat the mural, which was trying to spread awareness in a peaceful fashion, the way they did.
“It’s just kind of sad that some-
body feels that they need to do that,” the 27-year-old said. “I don’t really understand it.”
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org Women’s March mural defaced within one day of painting
Courtesy to the Alligator
A mural on the 34th Street Wall that was painted on Saturday morning by 15 volunteers from Women’s 
March Gainesville was defaced a day later. On Sunday night, a group unaffiliated with Women’s March Gainesville painted over some of the negative comments, one of which alluded to autism.
TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
WILDLIFE
CROSSINGWelcom/e.end Bac/k.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s ﬁrst issue of the fall semester. Place the same ad in both our New Student and Welcome Back editions and take advantage of our 10% pickup discount.
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep Toda/y.end!
352-376-4482 · Alligator Advertising ·  advertising@alligator.org
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Courtesy to the Alligator
The ﬁ  rst of a four-phase construction project is underway at the intersection of Stadium Road and Gale Lemerand Drive to improve 
underground utilities. The intersection is expected to open again at 
the end of June. 
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
The North Central Florida 
YMCA will celebrate its 50th year in 
Gainesville this month, an achieve-ment that comes after a ﬁ  nancially stressful year. 
In December, the organization 
announced it would be closing its doors after struggling with debt for more than 15 years, according to Al-ligator archives. By March 14, the organization raised $1.3 million, set-tling its debt, mortgage and renova-tion costs. 
If closed, the organization would 
have left seven full-time and 82 part-
time staff members without work 
and nearly 5,000 members without multipurpose facilities, including af-fordable child care.
Hundreds of community mem-bers dove into trying to help the or-ganization remain open. Using every outlet possible, the organization was able to reach their goal and remain open, said the chapter’s CEO John Bonacci.
Bonacci said continued fundrais-
ing would be very beneﬁ  cial to help the organization maintain scholar-ship funds for at-risk families and for future renovations to the facility. 
The 50th anniversary celebration will take place June 24 at the North Central Florida YMCA, located at 5201 NW 34th Blvd., between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Bonacci said there will be activities that cater to people of all ages, including a bounce house and silent auction. 
“I think it’s going to be one heck 
of a party,” Bonacci said. “We’ve got a lot to celebrate.”
Bill Foster, the events and fun-
draiser coordinator for the YMCA, said he is hoping the turnout will be good. 
“We feel after everything the Y 
has been through over the past year with the threat of the doors being closed … this particular 50th anni-versary event is to give back to the 
community for helping us,” Foster 
said. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
North Central Florida YMCA to celebrate 50th anniversaryBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Gale Lemerand Drive will be under construc-
tion for the Summer semester to improve underground 
utilities for the university. 
Dustin Jackson, UF’s director of utilities and energy 
services, said the construction began May 3 and will be completed in four phases. 
The ﬁ  rst phase is currently underway at the inter-
section of Stadium Road and Gale Lemerand Drive. Jackson said the university has several different util-
ity products, like pipelines and steam holes, that cross 
through that intersection, and it is vital to maintain 
those utilities to prevent future damage and account for the future growth of the university. 
“When we go through and do these projects, we 
upgrade the pipes to make sure we have the capac-
ity to serve those future loads when they do arrive,” 
Jackson said. 
The improvements to this intersection include an 
installation of a new chilled-water manhole and piping, 
a new steam manhole and an upgraded trafﬁ  c signal, 
Jackson said. 
He said the area has been experiencing some minor failures because of old pipes.
“We’re trying to minimize the impact to the UF 
community,” Jackson said. 
Since the area is already under construction, he said 
the university will also be improving the sidewalks, 
curb ramps and bus facilities around the intersection. 
Within the next three phases, construction will 
move south along Gale Lemerand Drive. Jackson said he believes construction is running on schedule, and the intersection will reopen at the end of June as planned. 
While some may ﬁ  nd the construction on the inter-
section a hindrance, Jackson said choosing to complete this project over Summer was the best option, since there is less trafﬁ  c and fewer students on campus. 
The four phases of the project are expected to be 
completed by August 14. 
Alexander Tyler, a 19-year-old UF political science 
sophomore, said he agrees that having the construction over Summer inconveniences fewer students.
“If they have to do it, now would be the best time,” 
he said. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgConstruction on campus to improve underground utilitiesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
3BR/2.5BA new upscale condo in Haile 
Plantation Market Square. Modern finishes throughout: custom cabinetry, granite coun-tertops, stainless steel appliances, wood floors in open living area, tile bathrooms. On bus route, walking distance to Publix, restaurants, shopping, tennis courts, and more. Two units available. Each unit is ap-prox. 1450 sq/ft. Private balcony avail with one unit. $1875/month for each unit. Avail July, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.      6-27-17-5-2
3BR/3BA Beautiful Home with Vaulted 
Ceilings, Laminate Wood Floors. Located 
Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hospital, 
and VA Medical Centers. Screen Porch, 2 
Car Garage, Fenced Yard, Energy Efficient. 
W/D, Lawn Main, and Pest Control all 
Included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus 
Route. Avail Aug. $1875/month. Contact 
tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.    
6-27-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-3901    6-13-17-8-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
One bedroom of four bedroom condo for 
rent in Countryside @ UF Condos. $425 per room two available 352-870-2792 Text or Call     6-29-17-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14CASHIER NEEDEDExperienced, dependable, reliable. References needed. Backgound check & drug test required. Foodmax Foodstore, 404 S Main St, 32601. 352-338-1338   6-27-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      6-27-17-4-14
Need a Job? We're hiring! Stop by The 
Village Career Fair!
When: June 28th 9:00am - 2:00pm
Where: 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, 
FL 32606
Hiring for: RNs, LPNs, CNAs, Companions, 
Servers, Kitchen Porters, Cooks
6-27-17-3-14
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
1. In 2016, the New York Mets’ Bar -
tolo Colon became the oldest major-
league pitcher (42) to hit his first 
career home run. Who had been the 
oldest?
2. Who played more seasons for his 
only major-league team: Al Kaline (Detroit) or Willie Stargell (Pitts-
burgh)?
3. What is the highest point total 
that Notre Dame’s football team has 
recorded in a bowl game?
4. In 2016, Zach LaVine became 
the fourth person to win back-to-back NBA dunk contests. Name two of the 
first three to do it.
5. Who were the first two NHL play-
ers before Wayne Gretzky (1981-82 
season) to tally 50 goals by the 50th game of the season?
6. When was the last time before 
2016 that Denmark won a gold medal in Olympic swimming?
7. Name the last time that the Euro-
pean golf team lost consecutive Ryder Cup matches.
Answers
1. Arizona’s Randy Johnson hit his 
first homer in 2003 at age 40.
2. Kaline played 22 major-league 
seasons for Detroit (1953-1974); Stargell had 21 seasons with Pitts-burgh (1962-1982).
3. Notre Dame tallied 49 points in 
the 2008 Hawaii Bowl.  
4. Michael Jordan (1987-88), Jason 
Richardson (2002-03) and Nate Rob-
inson (2009-10).
5. Montreal’s Maurice Richard 
(1944-45 season) and Mike Bossy of 
the New York Islanders (1980-81 sea-
son).
6. Karen Harup won a gold medal in 
the 100 meter backstroke in 1948.
7. It was 1991-93.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 12, 2017 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Composer heard
at graduations
6 Exerciser’s target
10 Rescue from
trouble, with “out”
14 Actress Watts of
the “Divergent”
films
15 Change the
decor of
16 “... __ and for all!”17 Medical prefix
with -plasty
18 Beverage from
China’s WuyiMountains
20 Insertion marks22 World’s longest
river
23 Accessory
usually not wornon casual Fridays
24 Bearded antelope26 Cast a spell on31 From time
immemorial
34 Eritrea’s capital35 Opel model
meaning “stars”
in Latin
37 Ears in the field39 Move wearily
40 On-call doctor’s
gadget
41 Flightless Aussie
bird
42 Ballpark figure43 Lie adjacent to44 Small songbird45 German artist
Max
46 Movie theater48 Six-line sonnet
section
50 Subjugate52 Salty expanse53 Nav. VIP56 Drought-stricken58 Torment60 Attend a party
uninvited ... anda literal hint tofive sets ofcircled letters
65 Passport, e.g.:
Abbr.
66 Like a thesis
defense
67 James of jazz68 Backyard border69 Flamingo color70 Unhappy fate71 Fragrant
compoundDOWN
1 Make official, as
a law
2 Hawaiian island,
or Hawaiian
porch
3 Make terrific
progress
4 French sweetie5 Protective vests,
gas masks, etc.
6 To and __7 Novelist Uris8 Improvise on
stage
9 Algebra type
10 Marsh11 Pantry pest12 Cubes in a tray13 Grassy field19 The first “N” of
CNN
21 __-cone
25 Stomach woe
27 Contaminated28 Rep seeking
promisingperformers
29 White symbol on
Switzerland’s
flag
30 Owned, old-style
32 Storybook sister
who pushed thehag into the oven33 Semicircular
roofs
35 Speedily36 Polio vaccine
developer
38 Mystical letters42 “Stop sweating
the small stuff!”
44 Was indecisive47 Opposite of fem.49 Autumnal
equinox mo.
51 Muse for poets54 Nincompoop
55 Taxi calculator
57 This, in Spain
59 Summer
refreshers
60 Republican org.61 Shapiro of 
NPR
62 Shade provided
by the sun?
63 Moose kin64 Popular Easter
entrée
By Parikshit S. Bhat©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/13/1706/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Dirt removal
method
5 Like much
religious music
11 Uncooked
14 It replaced the
Cypriot pound
15 Go back16 Stumble
17 Sports geek get-
togethers?
19 Gardening tool
20 Upper part
21 Keep an __
22 Pesters online, in
a way
24 Wall St. event
25 Halloween
decoration?
27 Western city
named for a
Suquamish chief
31 Witness32 Longhair cat’s
monotonousroutine?
35 Throw39 Early computer40 Hound over a
debt
41 Agile42 Group of two43 Last one left
angrily carryingon?
45 Job ad abbr.47 Feature of many
negative reviews
48 Imperfection in a
pointillistpainting?
53 Corp. leaders54 Greets55 Feel around
57 Printemps month
60 Addams family
cousin
61 Moral?64 Tasseled hat65 Pair of ones?66 Wary of67 Test68 Fight against69 Essence ... and,
read differently, ahint to six puzzleanswersDOWN
1 Leading
2 Car3 Door in the floor
4 Sweating,
maybe
5 Tropical Rain
Forest seller
since 1993
6 “__ we go!”7 Leading8 Spanish queen9 Birthday count
10 Car user, 
maybe
11 Detox locale12 Draw from the
oven
13 Take forcibly
18 Digestive
23 Administrative
district
24 Words spoken
while shaking
26 Winter hrs. in
Berkeley
27 Went fast
28 Bitty29 “Nessun dorma,”
e.g.
30 Prefix with scope33 Race34 Quelques-__: a
few, in French
36 “__ boy!”37 Females
38 Period
41 Like L vis-à-vis
XL, in some
cases
43 Set the pace
44 Widespread46 Bivalve at a bar48 Nine to five, e.g.49 Spud50 Posh
51 Looks at in a bad
way?
52 Rome’s Fontana
di __
56 Is indebted to
57 Revealing attire58 Social climbers?59 “__ Rhythm”62 Pub offering63 Frothy quaff
By David Alfred Bywaters©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/09/1706/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, June 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com18 Personals 24 Pets 15 Services
 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & Found
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The men's and women's track and ﬁ  eld teams concluded their seasons this weekend, with redshirt senior Kyra Jefferson setting an NCAA record in the 200-meter. Read the story, pg.14Warriors Win 2017 NBA Finals 
The Golden State Warriors defeated the Cleveland Cavaliers 129-120 
on Monday night, clinching the series in ﬁ  ve games and taking home their 
second NBA championship over the past three seasons.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWhen anyone talks about this year’s 
NBA Draft, the ﬁ  rst name that always 
comes up is former UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball.
The hype surrounding him is endless, 
and that’s not just because of his playmaking abilities with a basketball in his hand. His dad, LaVar Ball, has made headlines everywhere with his 
insane and maniacal remarks about his 
children and the NBA.
He even released his own “Big Baller 
Brand” shoe that sells for $495 with 
Lonzo not having played a second of 
professional basketball.
LaVar also shared his plan for 
his three sons and their paths to the association. They will all be one-and-
dones and will all end up on the Lakers, 
starting with Lonzo being drafted second overall by Los Angeles nine days from now.
It would be easy to spend an entire 
column writing about all of the things LaVar has said or done, but I’m not going to.
With all the attention of this draft 
going towards Lonzo and his father, it’s easy to forget about what else is going on.
So my message is simple.
Don’t let the Ball family take away 
from the rest of the players entering the 
draft.
Go back to hyping the athletes, not 
just the drama.
According to just about every mock 
draft, former Washington point guard Markelle Fultz will be taken No. 1 by the Boston Celtics. That’s almost a 
guarantee.
So why is nobody talking about him 
or what he could bring to the Celtics? 
Why isn’t he all over the NBA Draft news?
How about the other one-and-done 
freshmen who will most likely make up People need to 
focus on other 
draft prospects 
besides Lonzo BallJakes on a Plane / Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJake
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s third consecutive berth to the College 
World Series wasn’t the only thing worth celebrating 
for junior Alex Faedo on Monday night.
The right-hander from Tampa was also selected 
18th overall by the Detroit Tigers in the 2017 MLB Draft, becoming the 19th Gator picked in the ﬁ  rst round in program history.
Faedo is 7-2 with a 2.55 ERA in 109.1 innings 
pitched this year. His 135 strikeouts are good for the eighth best mark in the NCAA as well.
UF’s Friday night ace is projected by many 
analysts to quickly progress through the minor leagues and establish himself as one of the top 
starting pitchers in professional baseball.
Faedo was ranked 10th overall by Baseball 
America in its 2017 Top 200 Draft Prospects list and 
was given a high grade on all three of his pitches.
His repertoire features a fastball that sits in the 
low 90s but can occasionally hit 94-95 mph. His slider also serves as a knockout pitch with good swing-and-miss movement, and his changeup ﬁ  gures to boost good leverage with further 
development in the minor leagues.
Faedo is the seventh Gator selected in the  Faedo taken 18th overall in 2017 MLB DraftGrace King / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz follows through on his swing during Florida's 6-2 loss to 
Bethune-Cookman on June 4, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL
 By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Wake Forest left ﬁ  elder 
Jonathan Pryor started running back on a deep JJ Schwarz shot to the outﬁ  eld in the bottom of the third inning after a three-hour long rain delay. As he reached the warning track, he started to slow down.
The same can't be said 
for the ball, however. It kept going until it cleared the wall and sailed over the bleachers.
Schwarz had crushed 
one out of the park, putting 
Florida ahead by three runs 
early in game three of the NCAA Gainesville Super Regional.
That lead would ultimately 
hold, as the Gators defeated Wake Forest 3-0 on Monday night at McKethan Stadium to advance to the College 
World Series in Omaha.
“I know the coaches 
wanted me to pull the ball,” 
Schwarz said. “So that’s what I was trying to do... I just reacted and put a good swing on it.”
The Gators got off to a hot start early in the game.
In the second inning, 
the Gators collected three hits, including catcher Mike Rivera’s single that scored third baseman Jonathan India from third.
Then in the third inning, 
Dalton Guthrie singled to left ﬁ  eld and took second on a wild pitch, setting up Schwarz’s bomb over the left-ﬁ  eld wall.
Florida also got some 
help from its three pitchers, including a career performance from freshman reliever Tyler Dyson.
Brady Singer got the start, 
and provided two scoreless innings, allowing just one hit and striking out three before the rain started coming down. When play resumed, Dyson took the mound.
The Bradenton, Florida, 
native, who had never pitched more than two innings prior to Monday night’s game, went ﬁ  ve scoreless innings, recording a career-high seven strikeouts and allowing just two hits.
In the top of the eighth, Gators advance to CWS after win over Wake Forest
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE MLB DRAFT,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Alex Faedo pitches during Florida's 1-0 win against LSU on March 24, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
TRACK & FIELD
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
The Florida track and field program has 
a decorated past, championship present 
and promising future.
The Gators wrapped up their season in 
spectacular fashion at the NCAA Outdoor Championships, with the men’s team placing first overall to clinch a national 
title and the women’s team taking fifth 
place behind five individual titles, 
including an NCAA record from Kyra 
Jefferson.
The redshirt senior beat Dawn 
Sowell’s 28-year record in the 200-meter 
on Saturday by two-hundredths of a second, putting an exclamation point on a 
remarkable career at Florida.
The other four individual titles were 
spread amongst three different Gators.
Junior KeAndre Bates won both the long 
jump and triple jump, senior Eric Futch 
finished first in the 400-meter hurdles and do-it-all freshman Grant Holloway had a top finish with his win in the 110-meter hurdles.
Overall, the men’s team (61.5 points) 
and the women’s team (39 points) combined for more points than any other school that participated at Hayward Field 
in Eugene, Oregon.
At the NCAA East Preliminary in May, 
the Gators saw a total of 26 entries qualify 
for the NCAA Outdoors, as well 16 athletes 
earn All-SEC honors.
Holloway, one of Florida’s All-SEC 
honorees, was also awarded the title of 
SEC Outdoor Freshman Runner of the Year.
Almost two weeks before the NCAA 
East Preliminary, three Gators were crowned conference champions at the SEC Outdoors.
Bates won the triple jump, Jefferson 
won the 200-meter and junior Lloydricia Cameron claimed the shot put title.At the SEC Indoors, which took place 
during the first half of the season, the Gators set a school record in the 4x100 relay.  As a team, the men finished third, while the women took eighth place.
At the NCAA Indoors, Holloway 
(60-meter hurdles) and Bates (long jump) each won NCAA titles.The men’s team finished as runner-up, 
just a point away from passing first-place Texas A&M, while the women’s team scored just 12 points in the competition, 
landing itself in a tie for 14th place.
Leading the way for the women was 
Jefferson, a top-10 collegiate women’s 
200-meter runner whose resume now includes Saturday’s NCAA record as well 
as numerous other accomplishments in 
both indoor and outdoor competitions.
Sophomore Yanis David had a solid 
season as well, doing her best work in the 
triple jump.  She placed third in the NCAA 
Outdoors, second in the SEC Outdoors, and was voted second-team All-SEC for the triple jump.
Senior Marija Vucenovic was a second-
team All-SEC selection and was the NCAA Outdoors runner-up in the javelin throw.
Holloway headlined the men’s team, 
while senior Andres Arroyo was strong in 
the 800-meter all year.
TJ Holmes and Eric Futch both 
consistently placed in the top five in the 
400-meter hurdles, and Bates finished with titles in the NCAA Indoors, SEC Outdoors 
and NCAA Outdoors this season.
While the Gators will lose Jefferson, 
Vucenovic, Arroyo and Futch, the talent 
they return in Bates, David and Cameron—
coupled with the leadership of seven-time 
national champion and head coach Mike Holloway—should be more than enough to keep the team on the right track in 2018.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org  Gators conclude season with individual and team national titles
The Associated Press
Grant Holloway competes in the 60-meter hurdles ﬁ  nal at the 2017 NCAA Outdoor 
Championships in Eugene, Oregon.
TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
The Associated Press
Former UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball (right) and his father, LaVar, shake hands after a game during the 2016-17 college basketball 
season.
the top ten?
Former Kentucky players Malik Monk 
and De’Aaron Fox are looking to make their 
mark and have already been impressing 
some of the teams they have worked out with.
Where’s their hype?Or how about Florida State’s Jonathan 
Isaac, Kansas’ Josh Jackson or Duke’s Jayson Tatum? Why aren’t they talked about as much?This is the problem. The media is slowly 
moving away from covering these players and their stories, and instead is gravitating towards a single player, his dad and 
whatever crazy thing he says.
The biggest story about the NBA draft so 
far is if the Lakers will take Lonzo Ball with 
the second overall pick and prove LaVar right when he says they’re the only team his 
son will play for.
The biggest story after the draft could 
potentially be the reaction if Lonzo isn’t 
drafted by L.A. 
That’s just not right. Every player in the draft deserves some 
attention, too, not just those who demand it.
It’s time the media stops riding the hype 
train brought on by LaVar Ball and goes 
back to covering the rest of the players in 
the draft as well. 
Who knows if the other players even 
want that much publicity, but still, it would be nice if every story you read on the draft 
isn’t about Lonzo and his egotistical father.
Jake Dreilinger is assistant sports editor of 
the Alligator. His column appears frequently on Tuesdays and Thursdays.COLUMN,  from pg13LaVar says all three of his sons will play for L.A.
first round under coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan. Brian Johnson and Mike Zunino were taken in 2012, Jonathon Crawford was picked in 2013, Richie Martin was chosen in 
2015 and Dane Dunning and A.J. 
Puk heard their names called in the opening round of last season's draft.
While it’s a difficult task to stay 
focused on a postseason run when you’re in the conversation for a top-20 overall pick, Faedo has been praised by his head coach in recent 
weeks for his concentration on the 
task at hand.
“I think the thing that separates 
Alex from maybe most people in his position, is he’s been able to handle all the expectations in the draft,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s been awesome.”
While Faedo and the rest of 
his teammates will spend the next couple days preparing for the College World Series in Omaha, Nebraska, several other Gators are expected to hear their names come off the board as well.
Rounds 3-10 of the draft will take 
place on Tuesday and rounds 11-40 will take place on Wednesday.
Shortstop Dalton Guthrie, 
catcher Mike Rivera, catcher/first baseman JJ Schwarz and catcher Mark Kolozsvary are all projected to be taken on day two of the draft by Baseball America. First baseman 
Christian Hicks and outfielder Ryan 
Larson should be selected at some point as well.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMLB DRAFT,  from pg13Seven Gators 
have been 
taken in the 
first round since 2012
RECENT GATORS SELECTED 
IN FIRST ROUND 
OF MLB DRAFT
Alex Faedo-RHP
(2017, 18th overall pick)
A.J. Puk-LHP
(2016, 6th overall pick)
Dane Dunning-RHP
(2016, 29th overall pick)
Richie Martin-SS
(2015, 20th overall pick)
Jonathan Crawford-RHP
(2013, 20th overall pick)
Mike Zunino-C
(2012, 31st overall pick)
Brian Johnson-LHP
(2012, 31st overall pick)
Matt LaPorta-OF
(2007, 7th overall pick)the Gators turned to usual 
starter Alex Faedo to close out the game. That inning was the closest Wake Forest came to 
scoring.
After walking Bruce Steel, 
Faedo retired the next two 
batters before Pryor singled against the Tampa native.
With runners on first and 
second and two outs, Faedo escaped the jam by striking out Jake Mueller and sent the Gators to Omaha with a 1-2-3 inning in the top of the ninth. 
“I take notes and throw it out 
the window at this point,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’s all about winning, and we’ve won a lot of tough games, a lot of ugly wins. But an ugly win is better than a pretty loss, I know that.”
UF's game three win came 
on the heels of a 7-5 loss against Wake Forest earlier in the day.
Demon Deacons catcher Ben 
Breazeale hit a walkoff homer against closer Michael Byrne in the 11th inning, forcing a decisive third game to be played.With Florida officially 
punching its ticket to Omaha, it will face TCU in the first game of the College World Series on June 18 at 7 p.m. The winner of that game will play the winner of a contest between Louisville and Texas A&M.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg13Faedo made his first relief appearance of the season16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University AvenueGATORS IN THE MLB
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
When the Red Sox began the 
2017 regular season, their pitching 
staff alone seemed enough to 
propel them to the playoffs.
Southpaw ﬂ  amethrower David 
Price, Boston’s $200 million man, 
narrowly avoided having elbow 
surgery this offseason. Rick 
Porcello was coming off a Cy Young 
campaign. Five-time All-Star Chris 
Sale was acquired from the White 
Sox via trade.
But nowadays in Boston, there’s 
unrest, albeit relatively minor. Price has made just three starts 
after getting more opinions on 
his injured elbow. Porcello has a measly 3-8 record with a 4.46 ERA, and Eduardo Rodriguez, 
the promising young lefty from 
Venezuela, is currently sitting on the disabled list.
Enter former Gator Brian 
Johnson, who spent all last year 
with AAA Pawtucket. On Friday, 
Johnson made his third start of the season with the big league club after receiving a call up following 
Rodriguez’s injury. Johnson was 
shaky, to say the least.
He threw 105 pitches in 4.1 
innings against Detroit and allowed 
eight hits, though he surrendered 
just three runs, two of which came off solo shots. It was a far cry from his previous start when he tossed 
a complete-game shutout against 
Seattle on May 27, striking out eight in the process.
There have been rumors in 
Boston that Johnson could take Rodriguez’s spot in the rotation, depending on manager John Farrell’s decision.
Tebow Watch
Tim Tebow has had a rough go 
of it in the minors this year.
The Columbia Fireﬂ  ies left 
ﬁ  elder is batting .225 with just 
three home runs on the season after 
hitting two in his ﬁ  rst three games. He also has three times as many strikeouts as he does walks.
With that being said, it’s 
understandable that he’s trying to adjust to the speed of the game. Tebow knocked in two RBIs in his last game with a timely single and has managed to get on base in seven of his past eight contests.
Minor-League RoundupFor Nolan Fontana, it’s been a 
tale of two leagues. In the seven 
games he’s been called up to play 
shortstop for the Los Angeles Angels, Fontana has a .056 batting average, with just one hit and one walk in 18 at bats.
For the AAA-afﬁ  liate Salt Lake 
Bees, however, Fontana has been having a career year. The 26-year-old is batting .273 with six homers and 27 RBIs through 47 games.
Left ﬁ  elder Preston Tucker is 
having a subpar year with Houston’s AAA-afﬁ  liate, the Fresno Grizzlies. Tucker is batting .262, about 20 points below his career average. 
He split time last year between the 
minors and Astros, though his .164 average with Houston in 2016 may be why he’s been relegated to AAA-ball this season.
In 10 starts with single-A 
Stockton, lefty A.J. Puk has gone 4-4 with a 3.98 ERA. He’s only given up one home run all year, though in his last two outings, has allowed eight runs. Nonetheless, the Iowa native has allowed just a .194 batting average against him.
Pitching alongside Puk, Logan 
Shore has had similar results. 
Sporting a 3.12 ERA, Shore hasn’t 
gone more than ﬁ  ve innings in an outing this season. He last pitched on May 14, a game in which he gave up eight hits including his second 
home run allowed this season. 
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org  Brian Johnson trying to make his mark in BoSox rotation
The Associated Press
Former Gators left-hander Brian Johnson pitches during Boston’s 8-7 win against the T oronto Blue Jays on April 18, 2017, at the Rogers 
Centre.
