We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 112 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
Opinion: Mike White deserves 
recognition
The second-year coach should be named SEC 
Coach of the Year, pg. 13
City commissioner to donate 67 gallons of blood
It will take him 89 years. He is 57, pg. 4
UF employees help create app for cancer patients
The app is aimed to guide kids through treatment, pg. 9FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorABOUT 100 PEOPLE            
ATTENDED. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Anushka Gupta can still hear 
Karan Khullar’s voice in her head.
Repeatedly, she hears Khullar tell 
her, “I’m hungry,” and, “I’m sleepy” 
in Hindi.
On Monday, she stood with 
about 100 others on Turlington Pla-
za to mourn the death of Khullar, a 
22-year-old foreign exchange student 
who died on Feb. 11 after police said 
he was hit at a bus stop by a drunk-
en driver.
Khullar moved to Gainesville 
from India in January. At the time of his death, he had been living in the 
city for just two months.
The vigil was put on by the Asian 
American Student Union, Indian 
Student Graduate Association, In-
dian Student Association and Sikh 
Student Association. The Dean of 
Students Ofﬁ  ce and the International Center helped organize the service and passed out white candlesticks, 
which were lit in a circle.“I cannot believe he’s not here 
with us,” Gupta, a 22-year-old UF 
computer engineering senior said. “This is not possible.” 
Gupta and Khullar went to the 
same college in India and came to UF together in December as exchange 
students. Khullar booked their ﬂ  ight. 
The small group that came from their 
college celebrated New Year’s Eve 
together in Tampa, happy to ﬁ  nally 
be in America, Gupta said. She said 
she was moved to see the amount of 
people who came for Khullar, even if 
they didn’t know him.
Gupta took photos of the crowd 
to send to Khullar’s brother back in 
India.
“I see so many people connect-
ed,” Gupta said. “It just makes me so happy to see that they’re here for us.”
To keep others from experienc-
ing the same loss, those gathered 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
The Citrus County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
on Monday identiﬁ  ed the man who 
was shot and killed by deputies af-
ter allegedly ﬁ  ring a riﬂ  e at the Sa-
bal Trail Transmission pipeline and leading a car chase.
The man, 66-year-old James Le-
roy Marker, was also identiﬁ  ed as 
an anti-pipeline protester by a resis-
tance organizer.
On Sunday, Marker, of Choko-
loskee, Florida, damaged part of the controversial natural-gas pipe-
line and construction equipment in 
Dunellon, Florida before ﬂ  eeing the 
scene, according to a CCSO news 
release.As he drove along U.S. High-
way 41, Marker was followed by 
members of the Citrus and Marion 
County sheriff’s ofﬁ  ces and Florida 
Highway Patrol, according to Alliga-
tor archives.
The chase ended when an FHP 
trooper rammed into Marker’s ve-
hicle and stopped it, according to 
the release. Upon being stopped, 
Marker brandished his weapon and 
“engaged with law enforcement of-ﬁ  cers,” who then fatally shot him.
He was pronounced dead on the 
scene. Three CCSO deputies and one 
FHP trooper were involved in the shooting, according to the release. The deputies involved have been 
placed on paid administrative leave.On Monday, about 15 anti-pipe-
line protesters gathered at 7 a.m. to hold a vigil for Marker.
Panagioti Tsolkas, an organizer 
for Sabal Trail Resistance who at-
tended the vigil, said Marker was a 
passionate and dedicated protester, 
and his death was not excusable.
“Nothing they’ve shown yet 
comes anywhere close to justifying it,” he said. “He didn’t act recklessly. 
He didn’t injure anyone.”
No construction workers were 
present when Marker shot at the site, 
and no one was hurt, said Andrea 
Grover, a Sabal Trail Transmission 
spokesperson.
The construction remains on 
track to be completed by the end of June 2017, Grover said. Candlelight vigil held 
for UF student killed 
by drunken driver
Alleged pipeline gunman  identiﬁ  ed
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 8SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 8Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Prashant Ahuja, 21, a UF computer science senior, stands for a moment of silence to honor the life of 
Karan Khullar on Turlington Plaza on Monday evening. Ahuja and Khullar came to the U.S. from India as foreign exchange students.
ABOUT 40 STUDENTS 
GATHERED ON 
TURLINGTON PLAZA.
ByJimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
The past two months have ex-
hausted Ana Guevara.
The UF information systems 
senior said she’s worried that some of her undocumented fam-ily members who emigrated from Nicaragua more than 10 years ago might be deported.
“It’s been emotionally, physi-cally and psychologically drain-ing,” said Guevara, the vice president of external affairs of Chispas UF, a student organiza-tion focused on helping immi-grants.
Because of people like Gue-
vara, about 40 students gathered on Turlington Plaza on Mon-day as part of the Day of Action protest to rally against recent events that occurred on campus, which students said were hate-ful, as well as President Donald Trump’s hardline stance on im- Students protest acts 
of hate at UF campus“It’s not an isolated incident. 
Drunk driving can take anyone 
at any time.”
Ronit Dastidar 
UF studentWHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF School of Theatre and Dance 
presents ‘Dance 2017’
UF School of Theatre and Dance 
is proud to present “Dance 
2017: Rounding the Corner” now through Thursday at the Constans Theatre. “Dance 
2017: Rounding the Corner” 
sets the standard for present-ing bold and unapologetically original contemporary dance. Tickets for the production are 
$18 for the general public, $15 
for seniors and UF staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the 
University Box Office. More in-
formation is available at arts.ufl.edu.
UF Fine Arts College Council 
presents the 2017 FACC Student Juried Arts ExhibitionThe Fine Arts College Council 
(FACC) at UF is pleased to 
present the 2016-2017 FACC Student Juried Arts Exhibition now through Thursday in the University Gallery. From 
sculpture and installation to 
ceramics, painting, photogra-phy and video, the exhibition features the work of graduate 
and undergraduate students 
from the College of the Arts in the UF School of Art + Art History and a special dance performance by students from 
the UF School of Theatre and 
Dance. All events are free and open to the public.
Color Your Spring Break 
presented by RUB EntertainmentThe Reitz Union Board Entertainment will be host-
ing Color Your Spring Break, 
a painting and tie-dye work-shop. Attendees will have the opportunity to design their 
own tote bags, bandanas and 
towels. The event will be on the Reitz Union North Lawn today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
‘Love and Solidarity’: a film 
screening and Q&A with Michael HoneyAt Pugh Hall today at 7 p.m., 
there will be a public screen-
ing of “Love and Solidarity,” a film that explores the life of the Rev. James Lawson, a Methodist minister who 
worked alongside Martin Luther King Jr. to initiate civil 
rights struggles in the 1960s South. His commitment to nonviolent social change in 
the 1960s remained his major 
life purpose. In recent years, he has taught nonviolent orga-nizing techniques to working-
class coalitions of black and 
Latino workers that refash-ioned the labor movement in Los Angeles. Utilizing oral his-tory interviews with the Rev. 
Lawson and archival film foot-
age, acclaimed labor and civil rights historian Michael Honey and award-winning filmmaker 
Errol Webber examine the 
nonviolent social change at the heart of present-day struggles for universal human rights, peace and economic justice 
in the face of violence. For 
more information, contact the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.
Glow-in-the-dark Zumba 
presented by RUB EntertainmentThe Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment will be hosting a 
glow-in-the-dark Zumba event in the Reitz Grand Ballroom on Wednesday from 6:15 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m.
Grove Street block party
The Grove Street Neighborhood 
is getting a makeover with the 
addition of a new brewery, ca-
fes, and now eight new murals by local and international art-ists. This is a nonprofit com-
munity project that’s wrapping 
up with a block party Saturday at 2 p.m. on Powell Plaza, lo-cated at 219 NW 10th Ave. There will be food trucks, DJs, 
performers, poi spinners, pro-
jections, a poetry reading by Spencer Rooney, art vendors, meet and greet with artists, 
live painting, a community 
mural and more. 
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango Club
Join the UF Argentine Tango 
Club for free tango classes at all levels, including first-tim-ers. Classes will take place in 
Dance Studio A at the Reitz 
Union on Sundays. The begin-ner’s class will begin at 6:15 p.m. followed by an interme-diate/advanced class at 7:15 
p.m. Be sure to dress com-
fortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, ballet, salsa shoes or even a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please 
visit facebook.com/groups/
uftango.
UF National Student Speech 
Language Hearing Association The 2017 Stride Against Silence 5k run/walk benefitting the UF Health Speech and Hearing 
Center is just around the cor-
ner. The race will begin at 8:30 a.m. March 18. Following the race, there will be fun-filled 
activities for all ages. Make 
sure to register early to guaran-tee your shirt and goodie bag. There will be prizes for the most creative team, the largest 
team and all heroes. Register 
now at bit.ly/2ktWm4A.
The Criticism of the Albigensian 
Crusade in Occitan Crusading 
Lyrics
In a public and free lecture hosted by the Center for the 
Humanities in the Public 
Sphere, Marjolaine Raguin of the University of Liege will discuss political dissent 
in Occitan lyrics about the 
Albigensian Crusade. She will show which kind of arguments were used, how they were ap-plied and in which historical 
and intellectual contexts they 
operated. This event will take place in Marston Visualization Lab, L136, on Wednesday at 
5:30 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 112
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  64°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Za’Karia, a kindergartner in Melvin’s class, cracks an egg during an 
“eggsperiment” on Monday.  
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Karen Melvin, a kindergarten teacher at Littlewood Elementary School, reads “Whoever You Are” by Mem Fox to her class. 
By Lindsey Paige
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students in Karen Melvin’s kindergarten 
class cracked open brown and white eggs on 
Monday. Much to the surprise of some, the 
contents of the eggs were all the same color. 
It was a messy lesson in racial equality, 
one that stressed everyone — regardless of 
race — is identical on the inside, and should 
be treated equally.Melvin, a teacher at Littlewood 
Elementary School, wanted to teach her 
kindergarten class an important lesson. So she brought 18 eggs to class, one for each of her students.
Six kindergarten classes at the school 
conducted similar “eggsperiments” to determine if an egg would look different on the inside based on the color of its shell. The experiment was meant to celebrate Black History Month, Melvin said, and aimed to teach the students how, just like the eggs, people were all the same on the inside.
“We have been talking about remarkable 
African-Americans throughout the month, but this experiment ties together my teaching 
that we are all the same,” Melvin said.
It was Melvin’s ﬁ  rst time bringing the 
experiment to Littlewood.
Some of the students thought the color 
on the inside would match the color on the 
outside of the egg.
Nasim Abouhamze, 5, got excited to 
see what was inside of his brown egg and 
smashed it before the rest of his classmates.  He said he knew the inside of his egg 
would look like all the others. 
“I wanted them to see my egg was just 
like theirs,” he said. 
Melvin said with all her students coming 
from different backgrounds, she wanted 
to build a sense of community with the experiment. 
“I think these children all have so much 
potential,” Melvin said. “If we can teach them at a young age to make a positive impact — big or small — we can really make the world a better place.”  Gainesville kindergartners learn racial equality with eggs
They cracked brown, white eggs
SCRAMBLING PRE-EGGS-ISTING NOTIONS
Students in Karen Melvin’s kindergarten class participated in an “eggsperiment” on Monday. The 
activity was part of a series of events celebrating Black History Month at Littlewood Elementary School. The class studied different colored eggs and predicted what they would look like on the inside, before cracking them open to see if they were right.By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
When A. Quinn Jones Sr. moved 
into his Gainesville home in 1925, the 
U.S. was still 29 years away from the birth of the civil rights movement.
But on Sunday, about 200 people 
of all races gathered in front of the late African-American educator’s resi-dence to celebrate its transition into a museum.
The A. Quinn Jones Museum and 
Cultural Center, located at 1013 NW Seventh Ave., honors the former prin-cipal of the then-segregated Abraham Lincoln High School, who developed 
it into the second fully accredited all-
black high school in Florida, according to the museum’s website.
The crowd on Sunday celebrated a 
ribbon-cutting for the new museum, which will open in April and give visi-tors a glimpse into Jones’ life.
Jones’ family deeded the home to 
the city in 2005, said Stephanie Seaw-
right, Gainesville’s Community Rede-
velopment Agency project manager. The 12-year project, funded by Gaines-ville’s CRA, cost about $400,000.
“The house tells his story,” she 
said. “It represents a man who was larger than life.”
All six city commissioners and 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe attend-ed the ribbon-cutting and applauded Jones’ 96-year-old son Oliver Jones as he received a key to the new museum. 
He said although his father wasn’t 
able to complete his doctorate pro-
gram, Jones motivated his two sons to 
complete graduate school.
“(My father) was always interested 
in education, and he encouraged us,” Oliver Jones said.
Although the museum will not 
open until April, the public can re-quest a tour of the museum before then, said Steve Phillips, the director of the Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department.
“The museum is a phenomenal 
opportunity to know so much more about this man, which would have been lost otherwise,” Phillips said. “This site is unique in the sense of the history here.”
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
1504 NW 13th St · 352-372-7836By Maddie Harlow
Alligator Contributing Writer
To Nam Diep, adding new and 
innovative choices to a menu is just 
another day at work. 
After introducing its new split-
cup in January, Gainesville tea shop Lollicup, located at 3550 SW 34th St., started serving mochi ice cream on Feb. 20, said Diep, the shop’s owner. About a year ago, he no-
ticed the dessert becoming popular 
in Asian-style mom-and-pop grocery 
stores in California and wanted to bring it to Gainesville. 
Diep said the new addition has 
sold at a rapid rate, and Lollicup is 
currently selling around 1,000 piec-
es every day.“We sold out in two days and 
couldn’t replenish our supplies fast 
enough,” he said. 
Lollicup will receive a new ship-
ment of mochi ice cream Wednes-
day.
Mochi is made of sticky rice, 
which is pounded until smooth, he 
said. The result is like dough, which 
is then wrapped around a ball of ice cream sold at $1.80 each. 
“We spent the last three months 
doing some research by making our 
own mochi ice cream,” Diep said. 
After realizing it would be too 
difﬁ  cult to make mochi ice cream 
from scratch, Diep began taste-
testing other brands — his favorite 
came from Hawaii. 
“We order and overnight ship them and fell in love with the qual-
ity,” he said.
Jhon Jabieski, 34, and a chef 
at Arredondo Café, said he heard 
about the self-serve dessert through 
social media.
He tried the lychee and pistachio 
ﬂ  avors for the ﬁ  rst time on Saturday. 
“The doughiness adds an extra 
depth of ﬂ  avor,” he said.   Lollicup debuts self-serve ice cream, promptly sells outBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Craig Carter is afraid of nee-
dles.
The Gainesville commissioner 
has only donated blood twice in 
his life, but starting Monday, he 
will begin to donate every two 
months until he reaches 67 gal-lons — about 536 times — in honor of his friend of 10 years, former Gainesville Mayor Perry McGriff. That means Carter would have to donate one pint per sitting, for the  next 89 years. He is 57 years old.
“The thought of someone put-
ting a needle in my arm scares me,” Carter said. “I’ll get over it. I’ll just think of Perry when they pull that needle out, and I’ll be ﬁ  ne.”
McGriff died Feb. 2 from com-
plications with a heart surgery, 
according to Alligator archives. 
He was 79.
He served on the City Com-
mission in the 1960s and 1970s.
Carter’s donations will be 
part of Pints for Perry, a program organized by the Rotary Club of Gainesville and LifeSouth Com-munity Blood Centers to collect blood in honor of McGriff, who was a frequent donor. McGriff donated more than 67 gallons of blood, Carter said.
“He donated to people he 
would never see or never know, and he didn’t care because he 
just wanted to help,” Carter said.
A blood-
mobile will visit  the 
Gainesville City Hall at 9 a.m. Mon-day until 
March 7, said Laura Bialeck, Life-South community development coordinator. The bus will also go to the Gainesville Regional Utilities building downtown on 
Wednesday and Gainesville Pub-
lic Works on Thursday. Donors can also go to any LifeSouth lo-cation and register their donation with Pints for Perry.
Bialeck said about 50 people 
have already registered to partici-pate in the program. She hopes 536 people donate blood, which 
will meet the program’s goal.
“That will be quite a testi-
mony to Perry McGriff’s life and 
what he did for the Gainesville community,” she said.  City commissioner 
hopes to donate 
67 gallons of blood
McGriff
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator Staff
City employees cut the ribbon in front of the new A. Quinn Jones 
Museum and Cultural Center. The museum, which was A. Quinn Jones Sr. ’s former home, is set to open in April.
LOCAL
 Museum to open in memory of 
accomplished black educatorTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
PRESERVE WATER
TICK.TOCK.
Reduce your showertimeby 2 min.By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
Grace Shan wrote “loved” in 
green ink on a paper outline of a 
person’s body. 
The 19-year-old was one of 
more than 300 students who par-
ticipated in GatorWell’s ﬁ  rst day 
of the fourth-annual Celebrate EveryBODY events Monday. Nat-alie Rella, the event organizer, said the activities were inspired by the National Eating Disorders Association’s awareness week to celebrate body positivity.
“We take the angle of chang-
ing the culture of body accep-tance,” Rella said. 
For part of the day, the organi-
zation hosted a health and well-ness fair on UF’s North Lawn, where students wrote positive messages within an outline of person’s body on a paper canvas.
Shan’s message was joined by dozens more, some of which read, “Smile as bright as you can,” “Learn to laugh at your-self” and “Unique & proud.”
These messages reassured 
students that they are appreci-ated.
“Everyone is loved whether 
they know it or not,” the UF sta-tistics sophomore said.
In other areas of campus, 
such as the Counseling & Well-ness Center and Reitz Union, students encountered mirrors covered in paper, Rella said. 
In a Reitz’s women’s bath-
room, the mirror displayed phrases like, “You are enough” and “My body is a temple.”
Rella said as more students 
learn to embrace their self-imag-es, others will follow. 
“Embrace the genes you were 
born in,” Rella said. “We are so much more than what we look like.”
GatorWell promotes self-love on campus 
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
One in ﬁ  ve people will experi-
ence mental illness while in middle or high school.
That’s what mental health ad-
vocate Terrie Mullin told a group 
of six students Monday during an 
event hosted by the National Alli-ance on Mental Illness and Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. The event, called Ending The Silence, took 
place at the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce, located 
at 2621 SE Hawthorne Road, and aimed to teach students that men-tal illnesses don’t devalue the peo-ple who have them, Mullin said.
“The most important thing is 
that you talk to someone,” she said. “It’s not a sign of weakness to ask for help.”
Following the deaths of stu-
dents from Gainesville high schools in the past year, students learned 
about symptoms and suicide pre-
vention at ACSO on Monday night, she said.
Robert Dentmond, a 16-year-
old Gainesville High School sopho-more, was killed by police March 20 after calling 911 to say he was planning to kill himself and had a gun, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
Diamond Ward, a 16-year-old Buchholz High School student, took her own life in January. Her 
friends said they thought bullying  may have led to her suicide, ac-cording to archives.
Students were encouraged to 
be attentive and report any suicide warning signs from classmates to prevent further tragedy from strik-ing Alachua County Public Schools.
Sheriff Sadie Darnell talked 
about her experience with mental illness, both personally and profes-
sionally. Her mother attempted sui-
cide three times, and after seeking help, lived to be 92 years old, she said.
“It’s important to reach out,” 
she said. “We care about you, and we want you to be able to live as old as my mom.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org 
 After student deaths, ACSO teaches suicide preventionEvent today:  
EveryBODY can exercise, yoga event on 
the North Lawn from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. with a limited number of free yoga mats. 
Where to ﬁ  nd help for eating 
disorders:
UF Health Shands Psychiatric Hospital: 
352-265-5481National Eating Disorders Association hotline: 1-800-931-2237Counseling & Wellness Center: 352-392-1575UF Health Florida Recovery Center: 855-265-4372UF Nutrition Services: 352-392-1161The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Observations of a changing political atmosphere
To my readers who may not be athletic 
or interested in sports, I apologize to you for my incoming analogies, which may be lacking in relevance to you. For the rest of you, have you ever noticed 
how you must change the way you maneuver when playing on a different court or field? For those who have ever played tennis, football or volleyball, you are probably saying to yourself right now, “Yes, idiot. That’s obvious.” Right now, I’m also telling myself that same message because, at least instinctively, you’d catch me dead before you’d catch me taking a charge on a concrete basketball court.
What I want to focus on here is instinct. We as 
sports fans and players adjust to different environments through some inexplicable, visceral understanding of muscle memory, yet we — also as participants of society — seem oddly and continually surprised about the politi-cal atmosphere we must currently traverse. It’s as if we have been taking charges this whole time and wonder why the “gym” floor has cut us up so much. I’d like to point out a few observations I’ve noticed through reflec-tion and from the wisdom I’ve gained by suffering scars of surprise from this new political era.
Fox News Channel is no longer monolithically the 
head of Republican ideology. For as deep as the chasm of my memory reaches, Fox News has been a relay network for Republican pundits, passing along idea after idea on its individual talk shows reinforcing a manner of ideas Republican politicians across the board mimicked. This by no means makes Fox News partisan towards Repub-licans (I am neither defending nor advocating for Fox News) because that line will always remain nebulous, but I’d vouch that Republicanism matched Fox News’ ideologies — at least this used to be the case. For lack of space, I can only provide one example, but I hope it’s sufficient enough: the issue of Social Security. 
Prior to President Donald Trump, there 
hasn’t been a Republican politician who has outright stated or even had the intent to leave Social Security as is. Traditionally (and really just history), most Republicans would follow a neo-Reaganite set of policies that are, ac-cording to Politico, a “synthesis of support for a hawkish foreign policy, social conservatism and cuts in middle-class entitlements to finance further tax cuts for the rich.” Trump may fol-low a few of these ideas, but he outright de-
clared his “absolute intention to leave Social Security the way it is,” during his campaign. Consequently, Mother Jones reports Trump’s Social Security team has the in-tention to increase the retirement age, reduce benefits and a few other things. Either way, he’s one of only few Republicans to ever say he plans to keep Social Security the way it is.  
The craziest thing about this political paradigm shift 
isn’t just Trump. The most baffling aspect about these incongruent and seemingly vagrant shifts is that they’re happening on both sides of the spectrum. Trump’s incor-rigibility, his appearance of not being “swamp-like,” an emboldening supporter base that clouds discrimination as nationalism and how he acts and speaks is unlike any-thing ever seen before in a “politician.” A comparison of Bernie Sanders to Hillary Clinton nets the same results. Clinton in every regard is the typical Wall-Street-esque, shady, old, white male politician — except for being male — and Sanders is an avowed socialist who begs citizens to protest for what they believe in (we miss you, Bernie). 
I may be banal in saying what has already been said 
many times over, but the terrain is changing. Make sure you’re ready for it.
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.The purpose of art
We will take a bit of an esoteric approach today, in-stead of launching into a commentary on the Oscar picks. We’re sure the events of the Oscars are plas-tered all across social media. There’s a lot we could talk about: the political overtones of the night, the 
now infamous mix-up that occurred at the end of the evening, etc. But we’re not going to do it.
We’re going to take a step back and talk about art. After 
all, cinema is art, and it is necessary sometimes to reflect upon that.
“What is art?” is a question that is posed frequently, usu-
ally in juxtaposition to some piece of modern art, usually something the average person claims their 5-year-old could do. We’re not going to focus on only the typical visual art of paint-ings and sculptures. We are going to consider literature, film, music, dance, performance, theater, design and architecture — all facets of art. We will clarify right now that there is no answer to this question. Perhaps that goes against the nature of an editorial, where we try to convince you of an argument. But think of it as us convincing you there is no conclusion.
The simplest definition of art is something aesthetically 
pleasing. “Aesthetically pleasing” is a nice blanket state-ment — not everyone is pleased by the same aesthetics, but an aesthetic may be pleasing to anyone. Saying something is aesthetically pleasing is not saying it is simply conventionally beautiful. Even within the definition of conventionally beauti-ful, there are variations and facets. Sure, we could argue that a pretty landscape is aesthetically pleasing to most, but you might be particularly compelled by seascapes, while your friend is drawn to pieces with bright flowers. Additionally, al-though aesthetically pleasing may seem to simply cover just visuals, one must remember there are aesthetics that can ap-peal beyond sight. You can appreciate the heavy bass part of a song or perhaps the more melodious strings.
This is a solid definition; it is one way to look at art.Where, then, does literature — and to some extent theater 
and film — fall in? One can point out the aesthetically pleasing aspects of film and theater, and although literature may evoke some sense of aestheticism through its form or imagery, com-pared to a painting or a symphony, it may not be as obvious.
Perhaps another definition of art is to convey emotion. In 
this aspect, literature shines. Stripped of music, of artwork, literature somehow makes you feel for what is essentially ink on a page. Film and theater use aspects of aesthetic in order to convey emotion. Of course, paintings, sculptures and mu-sic can also fall in this category — although you might not be emotionally compelled by a Thomas Kinkade landscape or Miley Cyrus’ “We Can’t Stop,” you could definitely argue for something like Artemisia Gentileschi’s “Judith Slaying Ho-lofernes” or Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah.”
In short, art can be beautiful. Art can appeal to our emo-
tions. Art can do both. But is one more valid than the other?
To take this back to the Oscars, we’d like to pose a ques-
tion. Surely, things like costume design, cinematography and production design reward the aesthetics of the art of cinema. What of the emotional aspects? For that, we’d say the screen-play, obviously, but also the acting categories, as they take the emotion on the page and convey it to the screen. Where does this leave best picture and best director though?
It’s that balance — what do we value more, perhaps, at dif-
ferent times of our own lives, at different times of humanity? It’s a question with no set answer, except for a pause for one’s own reflection.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORJames 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
That headline was intentional, Mike 
Foley. Don’t get your wrap-around glasses in a bunch.
Newspapers do not ﬁ  ll space. Peo-
ple ﬁ  ll space.
Editors ﬁ  ll space. Not because they have 
all the news they want, but because they have space to ﬁ  ll. Because the editorial de-partment is told by a higher power there’s an objective amount of “news” that should be told on any given day, and if they fail to pro-pose enough “viable” stories by 5 p.m., then they haven’t done their jobs well enough.
Writers ﬁ  ll space. Not because they want 
to seek the truth or explore a topic for which they’re passionate, but because they have space to ﬁ  ll. Because writers are sent to en-gage in wild goose chases by an editor or at the whim of breaking events, and if they ulti-mately fail to hit that two-source mark by the end of it, then they haven’t done their jobs well enough.
Layout artists ﬁ  ll space. Not because they 
want to guide the reader’s eye in a new and interesting way, but because they have space to ﬁ  ll. Because, perhaps a writer didn’t meet inch count, and now the story needs a pull quote to get rid of that pesky white space. They stretch the graphic not because it’s 
the most important thing on the 
page, but because its size eases the burden of the writers, who no longer have to fudge extra words to make a story ﬁ  t. If they fail to contort any given page into a reli-ably busy mishmash of graphics and words, then they haven’t done their jobs well enough.
Opinions writers ﬁ  ll space. Not because 
something needs to be said, but because they have space to ﬁ  ll. An editorial, written by the editorial head honchos, had better leave its mark on current events, lest it feel petty. Two darts and two laurels every Friday. If they fail to reprimand and applaud their quota of crooks and do-gooders, respectively, then they haven’t done their jobs well enough.
Photographers ﬁ  ll space. Not because 
they want to hone in on the minutiae of life or on those intimate moments of love, humanity and goodwill, but because they have space to ﬁ  ll. Because a higher power tells the editorial department that words 
alone aren’t interesting enough 
— that it’s the paper’s obligation to entice and pander to the reader with a cute dog or child. And if they fail to ﬁ  nd an eye-catching front-page photo in the 24 hours they’re given, then they haven’t 
done their jobs well enough.
Al Pacino’s got this preachy monologue 
about inches:
“The inches we need are everywhere 
around us … On this team we ﬁ  ght for that inch. On this team we tear ourselves and ev-eryone else around us to pieces for that inch. We claw with our ﬁ  ngernails for that inch. Because we know when we add up all those inches, that’s gonna make the f------ differ-ence between winning and losing.”
It’s not about newspapers, but it sure as 
hell sounds like it.Newspapers ﬁ  ll those inches. Newspapers 
can ﬁ  ll those inches for many reasons, but at any given time, there’s no guarantee the reason is passion.
The Associated Press Stylebook demands 
that news publications are not placed within quotation marks in news stories. AP Style also demands that all works of art be placed within quotation marks. The governing rule set for most news organizations does not deem newspapers art.
But you’d better believe the folks working 
at any given newspaper are artists. Because they don’t just ﬁ  ll space. People ﬁ  ll space. 
Artists tell stories. They share experiences. 
They elucidate, explore, provoke and expose. And they care.
I have about 40 words left to ﬁ  ll in this 
column. I’m going to ﬁ  ll them, not because I have space to ﬁ  ll, but because I’ve been granted the opportunity to ﬁ  ll space. And as an artist, I’d be damned not to.
Michael Smith is a UF mechanical 
engineering junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Newspapers ﬁ  ll spaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaacccceeeeeeeeeeeColumn
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
signed their names in Sharpie onto 
a pledge beside a photo of Khullar 
smiling, vowing not to drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
Ronit Dastidar, the external vice 
president of AASU, said he hopes 
to hang the banner of signatures in 
the Student Activities and Involve-ment suite.
Dastidar, a 20-year-old UF mi-
crobiology and cell science junior, 
said the groups began planning the 
vigil about a week and a half ago. Although not everyone knew Khul-lar, what happened to him could 
have happened to anyone, Dasti-
dar said.“It’s not an isolated incident,” 
Dastidar said. “Drunk driving can 
take anyone at any time.”
Lakshay Arora, a 23-year-old UF 
computer science graduate student, knew Khullar in India, and the two were roommates in Gainesville. Arora came to UF a year before Khullar. He said the two used to talk about when they would be re-united again in America. 
Though they fought often, Arora 
said he misses Khullar. 
“He’s like a brother to me. 
Wherever he is, I hope he’s hap-py,” he said.
        @romyellenbogen
     rellenbogen@alligator.orgVIGIL,  from pg.1Students signed a pledge
migration.
Following the Turlington dem-
onstration, about 20 students gathered in Matherly Hall to sign 
protest letters to send to state of-
ficials and a petition to make UF a 
sanctuary campus.
Guevara, 22, said students were 
protesting acts on campus, includ-
ing the noose left in a Weimer Hall 
classroom, the man who visited 
campus wearing a swastika arm-band, the uprooting of the sign outside Walker Hall marking the African American Studies depart-ment and the Center for Jewish Studies and racist epithets found on a whiteboard in Anderson Hall.The protest aimed to unite mi-
nority students, Guevara said.
The protesters also wrote on 
two whiteboards about how UF 
administration should react to 
these kinds of events. Some said 
they wanted UF President Kent 
Fuchs to use social media to con-
demn hate acts, while others said they want safe spaces on campus for underrepresented students to meet.
Sergio Brenes, a UF history and 
Spanish senior, said he wants to see more white students protest-ing on campus.
“It’s not affecting them direct-
ly, so they’re not helping,” the 22-year-old said.
Brenes said the Counseling & 
Wellness Center, Pride Student Union and LGBTQ Affairs helped him feel at home at UF when he first enrolled.
“I came in as a closeted gay stu-
dent who’s Latino,” Brenes said. “It was all about finding the ad-equate resources to accept myself and get a sense of community.” 
But now, Brenes said he’s afraid 
other students don’t have the re-sources he did because the center needs funding, and three directors within Multicultural and Diversity Affairs have recently left.
“I need a staffer who’s not go-
ing to leave when stuff gets hard, because I have to stay here when it’s hard,” Brenes said.
Rana Al-Nahhas, the president 
of Students Organize for Syria, said she attended the rally to stand in solidarity with other minority students feeling threatened in the current political climate.
“Nobody should ever be denied 
access to the American dream be-cause of the color of their skin, the god they worship or the language they speak,” the 21-year-old UF psychology junior said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgPROTEST,  from pg.1They met to write letters  
to send to state officials
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
About 40 people attended Chispas’ Day of Action, where students from different communities spoke about their experiences as a result 
of President Donald Trump’s executive order and hate speech on campus. The group called for UF to do more to make all people feel welcome.
Ana Guevara, a 22-year-old UF informations systems senior and vice president of external affairs for Chispas UF, calls for UF President Kent Fuchs to publicly denounce acts of hate speech. She said emails are not enough at the Day of Action event on Turlington Plaza on Monday afternoon.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
About 100 people who attended the vigil signed a pledge against drunk driving on Turlington Plaza on Monday night. UF student Karan Khullar was killed after being struck by a drunken driver.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
LOVE YOURSELF 
Gaurav Yeole, a 21-year-old UF electrical and computer engineering graduate 
student, places a sticky note on which he wrote, “I love the way I help people” on a mannequin on Monday on the North Lawn. Members of AWARE (Awareness Wellness Ambassadors Reaching Everyone), an ambassador program for the Counseling & Wellness Center, encouraged students to write what they love about themselves to support mental positivity.
THE APP IS AVAILABLE FOR 
FREE ON THE ITUNES STORE.
By Daniela Garrido 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
With the help of a new app, UF employ-
ees are using cartoon characters to guide 
children with cancer through their treat-
ment.
Patients using the app, called ProtonU, 
are walked through their upcoming proton 
therapy with Jefferson, an orange, circular 
cartoon proton. Proton therapy, which uses 
lasers to treat tumors, is used to treat young children with cancer. Jefferson teaches them to sit still during the daily 30- to 40-minute treatment, said Kim Todd, a child specialist 
at Jacksonville’s UF Health Proton Therapy 
Institute who helped create the app.
“Our patients are less anxious and more 
familiar with the medical environment when they walk in, so it’s less intimidat-ing, and they’re more cooperative with our 
medical team,” Todd said. 
Todd, 29, said she created the app with 
help from Flagler College students and Ste-
phen Arce, a UF biomedical engineering lecturer.
The free app was available for download 
Jan. 19 on iTunes, she said. There have been more than 250 downloads since. 
Arce said he began helping with the app 
after his brother-in-law, a doctor at the UF Institute, said someone needed to help build it. Although he had no coding experi-ence, Arce took on the project, asking his friends to teach him how to build the app.
UF staff have helped integrate the app 
into patient experiences at the institute, he said. 
“They tried to treat a 4-year-old,” he 
said. “He went through the app, and he learned what the process was, and it got him to sit still through the therapy.”  UF employees help create 
app for child cancer patientsHEALTHBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
Designated drivers are the greatestAlligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 __ New Guinea
6 Closest buddies,
for short
10 Cleaning cloths
14 Three through
nine, in many golf
club sets
15 On the sheltered
side, at sea
16 Old flames
17 “The Daily Show”
regular Black
18 *In Hades,
euphemistically
20 Back to square __
21 Ballet skirt23 Every bit24 Béarnaise sauce
herb
26 Pearly whites
29 Escorted by
30 *Puffy Chinese
dog
33 Where to find a
sleeper hit,perhaps
35 Lascivious look36 “Good point!”37 “Raggedy” doll38 601, to Seneca40 Obstinate mount
42 East, in Essen
43 Fishing poles45 Leave out47 Actor Cary __ of
“Kiss the Girls”
49 *Bovine yogurt
brand
51 Part of a process
52 Adjust just a bit
53 “Way to go,
sister!”
57 Hook shape
58 “Very cool!”59 Where bovines
graze
60 Pained
expression, anda hint to two crieshidden in eachanswer to astarred clue
64 Makes angry,
with “up”
66 German
automaker
67 Commuter’s
choice
68 Popped up69 Fountain of jazz70 Poet St. Vincent
Millay
71 Poked at, cat-
styleDOWN
1 First sitcom
episode
2 Hockey venue
3 *Auto feature that
doesn’t need acrank
4 College, to
Aussies
5 Per what was
previouslymentioned
6 Mistreating7 Frilly addition to a
skirt
8 “A __ Good Men”9 Capitol Hill
lawmakers
10 Put back in office11 Rock singer Rose12 Prefix with
political or logical
13 NNE opposite19 Failed, as a fuse
22 “That’s awful!”
25 Divested (of)27 *Head rest on a
sofa
28 Lawmaking body31 Oil or gas
follower
32 Dampens33 Stinging remark34 Stifled laugh
35 Long ride, for
short
39 Intolerably
confident
41 Put out bait, say44 Beau or boo46 “Sign me up!”48 Relay race part50 Trio member with
Crosby and Stills
51 Metro stop: Abbr.54 Electrical pioneer
Nikola
55 Dodger Pee Wee56 Zapped with a
beam
60 Activate, as a
phone app
61 Tint62 Home security
giant
63 “Cool!”65 Nest egg initials
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/28/1702/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, February 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Maria T orres carried the UF women's golf team to a ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish in the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational. UF will look to repeat that result this year.  Read the story, pg. 15Gators' ace wins SEC Pitcher of the Week
After throwing 8 and 2/3 shutout innings in Florida's win over Miami on 
Friday, UF junior Alex Faedo was awarded SEC Pitcher of the Week, the conference announced on Monday. LACROSSE: GATORS 21, JACKSONVILLE 14
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Junior midﬁ  elder Allie Pavinelli 
intercepted a pass.
In her ﬁ  rst caused turnover of 
the season, Pavinelli corralled the 
ball into the net of her stick and turned upﬁ  eld. She noticed sopho-more attacker Lindsey Ronbeck 
open and threw the long pass to her 
Gators teammate.
The unguarded Ronbeck stood 
in front of the net, turned around and shot the ball between the legs 
of Jacksonville goalkeeper Mariah 
Cudlipp.
Ronbeck, who had yet to record 
a goal this season, had scored her 
third of the game. 
It was this chemistry among 
players that led to No. 3 Florida’s 
(2-1) 21-14 win over Jacksonville (0-3) on Monday night at D.B. 
Milne Field. 
“Jacksonville played a very good 
game,” UF coach Amanda O’Leary 
said in a release. “They pushed us 
at both ends of the ﬁ  eld. Credit 
them for a hard-fought game.”
Florida got started early with 
back-to-back goals two minutes apart by junior attacker Shayna Pir-reca.
Once the Gators got the lead, 
they never gave it up.
Two Ronbeck goals at the end 
of the ﬁ  rst half, including the one from the Pavinelli pass, put Flori-da’s ﬁ  rst-half goal total at 12, a sea-son best. The Gators also held JU to 
ﬁ  ve goals.
Ronbeck led all Gators going 
into halftime with three goals, but 
she was just one of many scorers 
for Florida. 
Senior attacker Sammi Burgess 
ﬁ  nished the game with four goals, 
while senior attacker Mollie Ste-vens and Pirreca tacked on three of 
their own. 
Florida was also able to work 
the ball around on offense, with 
six Gators recording an assist and 
four Gators getting off at least four 
shots.
On defense, the Gators forced 10 
turnovers and limited the Dolphins to 30 shots, 23 of which were on goal. In comparison, Florida had 40 shots with 33 of them on goal.
And on faceoffs, Florida domi- Gators dominate Jacksonville for second consecutive win 
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Shayna Pirreca (7) attacks the goal during Florida's 13-10 loss to North Carolina on Feb. 11 at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
 SEE LACROSSE,  PAGE 16
IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
If you’re an avid college basketball fan and you’ve found yourself wonder-ing who should win SEC Coach of the Year, then 
you haven’t been paying very close attention.
Mike White deserves it. And 
I think he’ll get it.
In just two years since Billy 
Donovan left, White will have 
led Florida back to the NCAA Tournament, has them in prime position to finish top 
two in the SEC standings, and has the 
Gators hovering around the top-10 mark at No. 12 in the country with just two regular-season games remaining.
But to only examine this season of 
Florida basketball would be a disservice to White and what he has accomplished. His run for SEC Coach of the Year didn’t just begin at the start of this season.It began in 2015.It began when he accepted 
the Florida job two years ago, 
taking on one of the most dif-
ficult acts to follow in college basketball.
In his first couple months 
on the job, White had to scramble to secure some of Florida’s committed recruits (see: incoming freshmen KeV-
aughn Allen, Kevarrius Hayes) and con-
vince others to stay (see: rising redshirt 
senior Dorian Finney-Smith). 
Some of those players had promised 
loyalty to Donovan, not to White. They 
could have bailed for a steadier program 
with a tenured coach.
Somehow, White convinced them. And, in retrospect, that was the easy 
part. 
White’s turnaround of UF  basketball 
should earn him SEC Coach of the Year
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbBy Spencer 
Thompson
Sports Writer
A sign written in Latin 
hangs in Florida’s locker 
room. Its translation: “vic-tory through harmony.” This season, it’s the motto of the Gators women’s tennis team.
“What that really means 
is, ‘For me to play at my best in May, I have to be at harmony with everything,'” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “Not just hitting a ball great, but my body has to be feeling good. I have to be at a good state of mind. Academ-ics need to be taken care of.’”
While the Gators are at 
harmony outside of athlet-ics, they are also playing in harmony on the court. With an undefeated record, a Na-tional Indoor title and a win over the defending national champions, Florida has prov-
en that it has a deep, veteran 
team able to score on every 
court. 
After a grueling February 
schedule, Florida had a full 
week off for the ﬁ  rst time 
this Spring. While the play-
ers used this time to recover and refocus, Thornqvist used 
his time off to visit the Rafa 
Nadal Academy in Spain. 
Thornqvist said he wants 
to expand his knowledge of 
tennis this year by learning 
the new and best techniques 
in the industry. He wants to 
merge his team’s “college behaviors” with professional behaviors to get the Gators to play at their highest level possible. 
Despite the team’s im-
pressive record this season, Thornqvist believes that Flor-
ida will continue to play bet-
ter tennis. This belief comes 
as the Gators will begin con-ference play against LSU on Friday. 
The team has described 
SEC play in the past as “bru-tal,” and Thornqvist expects that this season will be no 
different. Florida will enter 
play as the No. 1 team in the 
country.
Thornqvist anticipates 
that Florida’s conference 
competitors will hit hard at 
the team's weaknesses. 
“They know what you 
don’t like to do, and they’re 
going to make sure that you  UF women's tennis looking to 
Latin motto for inspiration
SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 1614   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
SWIMMING AND DIVINGBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After three tournaments in four 
weeks, the Gators are no strangers 
to the physical challenges of a rig-orous, professional-style schedule. 
UF has muscled itself through 
marathons of 36-hole days in New Orleans and Lecanto, and it will face that same challenge again on March 11 for the first day of 
the SunTrust Gator Invitational at 
Mark Bostick Golf Course.
“We talked a little bit about 
how to manage this long stretch that we went through and sort of managing your energy and your emotions,” coach Emily Glaser said Monday. 
“I think it’s important that 
we’ve had those opportunities to play 36, and that’ll give us at least 
an idea of what to expect in a cou-
ple of weeks.”
Through the brutal schedule 
UF has played, it has learned some lessons, botching a late lead in Palos Verdes and coming up 11 strokes shy of first in New Or-leans.
Taylor Tomlinson, who took 
a share of first place in Palos Verdes, took a tumble in her per-sonal game in the next tourna-ment in New Orleans, finishing 8 over after struggling through a 5-over first round. Glaser said that she and assistant coach Janice Olivencia will talk with Tomlinson about consistency.
“There’s no doubt that she’s 
talented,” Glaser said. “Winning that event in (Palos Verdes) just proves how talented she was. That was a field that was packed with All-Americans.”
Meanwhile, 
Maria Torres, one of the senior 
leaders of the 
team, will hope to continue her consistent play 
in Gainesville on March 11 and 12. Last year at 
the Gator Invitational, Torres tied for fifth individually on the way 
to leading UF to its 19th team ti-
tle in the event’s history with an 11-stroke win over FSU.
“The thing I love about coach-
ing Maria is that we played 36 holes that second day in New Or-leans, and immediately after we got off the golf course, we were sort of already talking about ways 
to improve,” Glaser said. “That’s 
the great thing about Maria: She’s constantly looking for ways to improve, and you can really give her honest, straightforward feed-back.”
Glaser said her team is pre-
pared for the challenges and pres-sures that come with grinding 
through a 36-hole day.
“There’s an art to it, to a certain 
extent, of sort of managing the 
day,” Glaser said. “I think we’re on the upswing of confidence, but I think we can build more.”
@morganmcmuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgWomen’s golf having ‘upswing of confidence’ before home  tourney
Alligator File Photo
T aylor T omlinson putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
In 2016, T omlinson tied for 12th in the SunTrust Gator, and teammate Maria T orres tied for fifth. As a team, the Gators came in first in 2016 and are hoping to do so again this weekend. 
T orres
By Sean Denison
Sports Writer
At UF’s Last Chance Meet over 
the weekend, coach Gregg Troy 
and the rest of the Gators coach-ing staff wanted to see how the men’s and women’s teams would 
respond after the SEC meet last 
month in Knoxville, Tennessee.
They couldn’t have asked for a 
better outcome.
“It was fantastic from our 
standpoint,” Troy said. “Probably three of the best days we could have possibly had.”
During the three-day event over 
the weekend, the Gators had 37 swimmers — 24 men and 13 wom-en — post B-standard times, which gives the swimmers a chance to either qualify or pick up optional events for the NCAA Champion-ship next month in Indianapolis.
“It was a highly successful meet 
for us,” Troy said. “We’ll find out 
the definite qualifiers on Wednes-
day for the women this week. The men still have one week.”
The Last Chance Meet, which 
was one of nine in the country, provided the women’s team a much-needed spark, especially considering it ended the regular season losing two consecutive 
meets and finished seventh at the 
SEC Championships.“The main thing is we got 
a little more confidence on the women’s side,” Troy said. “They raced so well, even though they’re 
a little inexperienced. I think the 
extra week of them feeling confi-dent about themselves, being at home in a little more comfortable environment showed.”
Judging by its performance this 
past weekend, Troy is happy with 
the improvements the women’s 
team has made throughout the year and believes it could have performed better at the SEC Cham-pionship.
“Had we had some of the per-
formances we had at this weekend 
and put together relays — and it 
looks like we could — we prob-ably would’ve been more like cer-tainly fourth, maybe a little hunt for third,” Troy said. “I think that gives us a little sense of confidence moving forward because they are so young.”
For both the Gators men’s and 
women’s teams, the NCAA Cham-pionships pose a number of chal-lenges, including competing on the road. 
This year — because of the 
renovations made to the O’Connell Center — the Gators were forced to compete on the road for every 
competition this season except for 
their regular-season finale on Jan. 28 against Tennessee.
“I think swimming on the road 
helped everyone get some expo-sure to unique dynamics, which helped us at the conference meet,” Troy said. “We went to places that were either unenthusiastic or little 
bit of a hostile crowd.”
If anything, the Gators won’t 
make excuses for the long trip to 
Indianapolis. Instead, the athletes and coaching staff look forward to the challenge.
“We have the opportunity to go 
and compete,” Troy said. “It’s not really about obstacles but taking 
advantage of the opportunities you 
have.”
@seandenison
sdenison@alligator.orgUF has chance to compete at NCAAs after ‘fantastic’ weekend
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
UF swimming and diving coach Gregg Troy (second from right) celebrates during UF’s meet against 
T ennessee on Jan. 28 in the O’Connell Center. 
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2017
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
TAKING CARE 
OF BUSINESS
352-226-3879
tcbautosinc.com
2027 NE 27th AveAUTO SALES
by appointment only
White’s first season was likely one 
of the hardest basketball challenges 
he had ever faced.
As it began, nearly every question 
White received from the media had some connection to Donovan. 
How much pressure do you feel to 
follow in his footsteps?
How do you get your players to 
believe in your plan?
How long will it take you to reach 
the NCAA Tournament?
White answered all of those ques-
tions. With class.
He explained that he wasn’t trying 
to replace a legend. No, that would 
be impossible.
He was only trying to rebuild a 
program whose culture had been de-
pleted with the loss of their leader, whose players were uncertain about 
what direction UF would be headed 
and whose fan base lusted for win-ning after a 16-17 final season under Donovan.
So far, White has delivered. He al-
ready has more wins (44) in his first two seasons than Donovan had in his first two (27). He has remained competitive in recruiting while per-
suading the players he inherited to buy into his plan. And he has quickly earned the respect of coaches and 
basketball experts around the league.
“Mike has them playing through 
his eyes now,” South Carolina coach 
Frank Martin said after Florida defeat-
ed the Gamecocks 81-66 last week. “Last year was obviously him trying to get guys to see what he sees. That is definitely happening right now.”
That much is clear.No. 12 Florida is 23-6 and will be 
one of the favorites to win the SEC Tournament in March, and much of it 
is because of White.
He has improved on last season’s 
eighth-place SEC finish and trans-
formed the Gators back into one of the conference’s elite.
He has quickly forced Gainesville 
to temporarily forget about a coach-ing legend, distracted by the success of the current team.
He has once again made Florida an 
attractive landing spot for top recruits who want to play in the SEC.
And he did it all in a little over a 
year.
“As an opponent, it’s fun to 
watch,” Martin said. “It’s not fun to play against.”
Award the man SEC Coach of the 
Year.
No one is more deserving. COLUMN,  from pg13
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike White looks on during Florida's 81-66 win over South Carolina on Feb. 21 in the 
O'Connell Center. 
have to do what you don’t like to do for two hours,” he said. “Mentally, that’s the great chal-lenge with the SEC.”
Having faced a number of the top teams in 
the country already, Thornqvist thinks that his team is mentally prepared and up to the chal-lenge. 
The team returned to practice Monday and 
will continue to prepare throughout the week for its weekend matches. The Gators face LSU on Friday at 5 p.m. and Texas A&M on Sunday at noon. While the Gators have 
already built an accomplished 
résumé this season, Thorn-qvist believes the toughest 
challenges lie ahead. 
“Everyone’s back here, 
and we’re rejuvenated, and we’re focused on the second 
leg of this long season,” he 
said. “And that’s perhaps sometimes — and I do 
expect it this year — the most grueling part, and 
that’s the SEC season.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org WOMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg13The Gators face two SEC 
opponents this weekend
Thornqvist
nated, winning 24 draw controls to JU’s 
13. Stevens' 11 draw controls are a UF single-game record.
“We did a better job in the draw circle 
and competing for those 50/50 ground balls,” O’Leary said. 
This was also the ﬁ  rst game where Flor-
ida was able to give all three of its goalies playing time.
Sophomore Haley Hicklen started the 
game, saving six shots while letting up 10 goals. After 48 minutes, O’Leary put in ju-nior Olivia Cole, who recorded a save, but let up three goals. 
To close out the game, freshman Kenzii 
Kittell got her ﬁ  rst taste of action, making two saves while letting up one goal.
“It was great to see all of our goalies get 
playing time,” O’Leary said.
The Gators will travel to Maryland this 
weekend for a two game road stretch. The ﬁ  rst is against No. 17 Towson on Sunday and the second against Loyola on March 8. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org LACROSSE,  from pg13Florida will play back-to-back 
games in Maryland next week