We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
De-stress study fest
Check out the photo story, pg. 9
Residents light 352 candles for death row inmates
They discussed ending the death penalty, pg. 3Gators bet Alabama State 
in straight sets
Florida advances to second-round NCAA T our-nament matchup against Miami tonight, pg. 14SHE INCREASED 
THE MUSEUM’S 
MEMBERSHIP , FUNDING 
AND ART COLLECTIONS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Under her leadership, the 
Harn Museum of Art’s member-
ship grew six times as large as it 
began.
Now, after 16 years working 
around art exhibitions and collec-
tions, Rebecca 
Nagy will retire 
in June 2018.
While she 
was director, the amount of 
people regis-
tered as mu-seum members increased from 1,000 to more 
than 6,000, Nagy said. Through 
partnerships with UF Student Government and other fundrais-ing efforts, including private do-nations, the museum made mem-
bership free for everyone.
“More people have become 
part of our family, as we like to 
say,” Nagy said. “That has been 
a real joy for me.”
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost 
appointed a search committee, 
which started the national search to replace Nagy. The goal is to 
have a new director by the time 
she leaves, said Nagy, adding she’s retiring because she thinks it’s time for a new leader to create 
the next vision for the museum.
Eric Segal, the museum’s di-
rector of education and curator of academic programs, said the 
most valuable contribution Nagy made to the museum was build-ing relationships between the 
museum and people from the lo-
cal public and private sectors.
“The community is becoming 
more and more engaged in the museum and recognizing that it’s 
not just that thing that is on the 
other side of the UF campus,” he said. “People are starting to really see the Harn Museum of Art is a 
great resource for sort of every 
aspect of Gainesville and Alachua County.”
As part of her integration ef-
forts, Nagy created Segal’s posi-
tion to better engage with UF, he 
said. The museum also raised its number of curators from three to six.
She also raised funds for an 
education program that allowed students from the Duval Early Learning Academy to visit the museum. After the pilot program 
last year with Duval, Segal said 
the program grew and added four more visiting centers this year.
Since Nagy was appointed, 
endowments supporting the Harn have grown to a total value of $19.2 million, according to a news release. This includes 22 new endowments, estimated at a 
current value of $8.48 million.
But funding and membership 
are not the only numbers that 
have escalated under Nagy’s di-
rection. The Harn’s art collec-
tions have expanded from nearly 5,000 works to more than 11,000 works, according to the news re-VOLUME 112 ISSUE 40
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THEY PRESENTED A LOCAL 
RESOURCE FOR STUDENTS.
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
Members of Student Government’s new 
mental health taskforce held its ﬁ  rst town hall 
to help students ﬁ  nd mental health resources in Gainesville. At the meeting Thursday in the Reitz Union, 
students spoke about mental health and the Counseling & Wellness Center, for which  UF Provost Joe Glover recently secured permanent funding for eight new mental health counsel-ors, according to Alligator archives. 
Gregory Davis, a public relations specialist 
at Gainesville Peer Respite, told the crowd of about 30 students about the services the non-proﬁ  t organization provides, including support groups, phone support, wellness activities and 
overnight stays for up to eight days.
Davis said the organization, located at 728 
E. University Ave., is unique because there are 
no counselors or hierarchies. Instead, it’s led by peers, people who have gone through men-tal illness.
Davis said he sees a beneﬁ  t in helping peo-
ple talk about their mental health.
“It is sometimes easier to talk to people we don’t really know, who aren’t in our inner cir-
cle,” he said. “Every guest that comes into the 
respite, we talk to them as a friend.”
The task force disclosed their goals during 
the hourlong town hall, which included in-creasing mental health awareness on campus, getting four new counselors in the CWC and engaging the Student Body in their efforts.
Sophia Ahmed, a 19-year-old UF materials Student mental health group discusses Gainesville resources 
Nagy
Harn’s leader to retire 
after 16 years at UF
SEE HARN,  PAGE 8SEE HEALTH,  PAGE 8
By Jessica Giles and 
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writers
About 2,000 chicken-lovers visited the new Chick-
ﬁ  l-A at The Standard at Gainesville apartments during 
its grand opening Thursday and were greeted by the signature Chick-ﬁ  l-A cow mascot and smiling team 
members.
Staff members said “my pleasure” to guests who 
ordered nuggets, tenders and sandwiches at the 4,000 
square-foot fast-food restaurant. The staff was enthu-siastic to welcome customers to the new store, said Karyna Kaufmann, the store’s operator.
“The team is having fun, the guests are super ex-
cited for us to be here, so it’s great,” she said. 
Emma Bond, a UF nursing freshman, ordered a 
Chick-Fil-A sandwich and fries for lunch and said the 
excitement exuded by the Chick-ﬁ  l-A staff was almost 
overwhelming.
“They were bombarding us with friendliness,” the 
18-year-old said. 
Besides a warm welcome, staff members gave out Chick-ﬁ  l-A at The Standard now open 
for service across from UF campus 
SEE CHICK-FIL-A,  PAGE 8Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
SURPRISE SOLAR
A Legrand-branded solar panel appeared on Turlington Plaza early this week. The station is equipped 
with four USB ports and is one of three units from across the U.S.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
HIGH  79° LOW  54°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Apply well before the dead-
line to ensure the federal pro-
cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-
sistance with completing your 
FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
‘Agbedidi: A Fusion of Traditional 
African and Contemporary Dance’“Agbedidi: A Fusion of Traditional African and Contemporary Dance” will once again grace the Constans Theatre stage, located east of the Reitz Union on the UF campus. The concert will be held today and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. 
and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets cost 
$13 for UF students, $15 for UF faculty and staff, $15 for seniors and $18 for the general public. The concert, under the direc-tion of Mohamed DaCosta and Trent Williams Jr., presents tra-ditional West African dance and contemporary dance by African-
American choreographers. The 
show celebrates diversity of cultures and dance forms by bringing together UF faculty and world-renowned guest artists and musicians. 
Little Run on the Prairie 5K
The Alachua County 4-H is host-
ing its annual Little Run on the 
Prairie 5K on Saturday begin-ning at 8:30 a.m. It is a trail run through the historic and pristine Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park. This community and fam-ily-oriented event benefits 4-H summer camp scholarships for special interest, residential and county day camps. To learn more about the race, please go to ac-tive.com, their Facebook page or contact Amanda Morgan at amor-gan133@ufl.edu or 352-955-2402.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 40
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
A FORMAL ACTION WILL BE 
DECIDED IN ABOUT A WEEK.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s chapter of the Tau Epsilon Phi Fra-
ternity is facing disciplinary action after serv-
ing alcohol to minors, being in possession of drugs and causing damage to a hotel room.The fraternity had a conduct hearing Mon-
day and is awaiting a formal disciplinary rec-ommendation which will be given to the dean 
of students, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email. Sikes said the decision should come in the next week or so.
In August, the fraternity held an unregis-
tered event during which alcohol was served to minors. On a trip to New Orleans in Sep-tember, fraternity members had drugs and damaged a hotel, Sikes said. She did not know details of the extent of damages.
Sikes said the disciplinary action stems 
from at least the two incidents. 
“It’s possible there were some others con-
sidered,” she said. 
Matthew LaTorre, the president of the fra-
ternity, declined to comment.
Tim Smith, the international consul for Tau 
Epsilon Phi, wrote in an email he is aware of the disciplinary action facing UF’s chapter, but he has not received formal documentation from UF. 
“We take all allegations levied against our 
members seriously and respect any actions 
taken by the University of Florida regarding 
those allegations,” Smith said. 
Smith declined to comment further until 
formal reports are given to him and the group’s board of directors reviews the situation.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF’s Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity faces disciplinary action
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
In 1974, Kathy Dillon was in her 
ninth-grade science class when her father was murdered.
After being taken home from 
school in the back of a cop car, she 
learned her father — a New York 
State Trooper — had been shot and killed in the line of duty during a routine trafﬁ  c stop.
The district attorney continu-
ously reassured Dillon’s family the man who shot their father would be sentenced to death. For Dillon, the looming prospect of the death pen-
alty didn’t put her mind at ease.
“I’ll always miss my father,” she 
said. “An execution won’t change 
that.”
The man who shot her father 
was sentenced to 25 years to life. Dillon believes if he were executed, she would’ve suffered even greater trauma.
Dillon and about 25 others gath-
ered at St. Patrick Catholic Church, located at 500 NE 16th Ave., on Thursday evening to discuss end-ing the death penalty as part of a 
national event called Cities for Life 
Day, which is held every year on Nov. 30. This was the ﬁ  rst Cities for Life event celebrated in Gainesville, said Lowell Hecht, a deacon at St. Patrick Catholic Church. The event included speeches from Dillon; Ron Wright Jr., an exoneree from death row in Florida; Dr. Joseph Thornton, 
a physician who worked with death 
row inmates; and Sonya Rudenstine, a Gainesville attorney who works with death row inmates. After the speeches, audience members lit 352 candles on the steps of the church’s lectern to represent the 352 inmates on Florida’s death row, Hecht said.
“The goal with this event was to 
try to get some grassroots support for it,” he said. “It’s very important. It’s a matter of life and death.”
Hecht invited Catholic parishes 
in Florida and some non-Catholic churches to ring their bells at 7:30 
p.m. in solidarity with St. Patrick. He said he was unsure how many 
participated. About 2,100 cities around the world held Cities for Life 
Day events, Hecht said.
Susan Johnson, a Gainesville 
resident, attended the event to show 
her support for abolishing the death penalty. Her friend’s son has been on Florida’s death row for about 17 years.
“I knew there was goodness in 
him, because I had known him as a 
boy,” she said.
The outcome looks bleak for 
him, but she hopes one day she’ll 
see an end to state-sanctioned deaths, she said. Johnson believes people overlook the pain the death penalty causes the family of death row inmates.
“I’ve seen how the families of 
the convicted become secondary victims in these situations and the trauma that it creates in their lives,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Gainesville residents call for abolition of death penalty
Jessica Giles / Alligator Staff Writer 
Susan Johnson bends to light one of the 352 candles in St. Patrick 
Catholic Church, located at 500 NE 16th Ave., on Thursday night. The candles, which represented the 352 inmates on death row in Florida, were part of the church’s Cities for Life Day event.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
By Katherine McGuinness
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pharmaceuticals and personal 
hygiene items are contributing to 
water pollution, a UF researcher found.
Alexander Reisinger, an assistant 
professor in UF’s soil and water sci-ences department, co-authored a paper with ﬁ  ve researchers from dif-ferent universities. The November study examined how pharmaceuti-cals and other items impact the en-vironment by disrupting the ecosys-tem and creating an imbalance.
Pharmaceuticals and personal 
care products, or PPCPs, pollute natural waterways and bodies of water because they can’t be eas-ily removed from the environment, he said. Reisinger said he hopes to change how people classify contami-nants and pollution in the environ-ment.
“We’ve come up with this over-
arching framework of how we should think about contaminants in the environment,” he said.
Wastewater treatment plants, which are built to remove solids and 
contaminants from water before it’s 
released back into the environment, aren’t designed to process chemicals found in pharmaceuticals and simi-lar products, Reisinger said.
Reisinger and his colleagues be-
gan the study when they noticed similarities between personal care items and endocrine disruptors, 
chemicals that interfere with the 
health of wildlife and humans.
The presence of pharmaceuti-
cal pollution in the environment is changing organisms’ behavior in the ecosystem in the same way endo-
crine disruptors do, Reisinger said.
“We have a decent idea of what 
chemicals are out there but we don’t 
know much about the mixture of these chemicals,” Reisinger said.
Local and state parks are taking 
preventive measures when it comes to pollution, like Devil’s Den Spring, a privately owned spring located in 
Williston, Florida.
Megan Bryant, the public rela-
tions representative for Devil’s Den, 
said they work to keep the spring clean from all pollution, not just pharmaceuticals and similar items.
“We have staff around that 
makes sure no one goes down the steps with anything except their mask, snorkel and ﬁ  ns,” Bryant said.
Reisinger said people can reduce 
pollution from personal items by not ﬂ  ushing pharmaceuticals down the drain, and considering what’s in prescriptions.
“You may be taking more chemi-
cals than you need, and that’s not really good for you or your body, and that’s not good for the environ-ment,” he said.
UF researcher studies pharmaceutical waterway pollution
THE FORMER BLACK HIGH 
SCHOOL CLOSED IN 1970.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Albert White attended Lincoln High 
School, east Gainesville’s school for black stu-dents during segregation, he never paid for a single school lunch.  
It was an agreement the 72-year-old alum-
nus and author made with the school’s then assistant principal, John Rawls, in 1959 when he dreamed of joining the junior varsity foot-ball team, White said. 
If White, then in eighth grade, kept his grades up while on the team, Rawls told him 
he’d never have to worry about lunch money 
in his pocket — in exchange for hard work.
“The teachers at Lincoln teached and 
preached,” White said. “They were getting us ready for this mean world that was outside waiting for us.” 
White recounted his memories of Lincoln 
High in front of about 200 Gainesville residents Thursday inside Matheson History Museum, 
located at 513 E. University Ave. His story was 
the ﬁ  rst speaking event of Matheson’s exhib-it, which debuted Nov. 8, called “Liberating Learning?: The Story of Desegregation in Ala-chua County Schools.”
White based his lecture on his book, “Lin-coln High School: Its History and Legacy,” 
which he co-authored with retired UF English 
professor Kevin McCarthy. 
All residents should be aware of the coun-
ty’s history of desegregation, particularly be-cause of national racial tensions, Matheson Executive Director Peggy Macdonald said. 
“We can only learn of today by looking to 
what happened then,” Macdonald said. 
For White, Jan. 30, 1970 is a date he’ll 
never forget, when the all-black high school he graduated from seven years prior shut its doors for good. After the Brown v. Board of Ed-ucation Supreme Court decision, Lincoln High students thought white schools would simply open their doors. Instead, they lost their own school, he said. 
“When you take something that you love 
away, you know it’s going to hurt,” White said. 
As former Gainesville Mayor Jean Chalmers 
admired the museum’s exhibit, with a timeline of county desegregation and prominent Lin-coln High faculty, she was taken back in time. 
Chalmers, who served as mayor in 1985, 
said she remembered walking on West Univer-sity Avenue to protest with hundreds of other 
young adults and Lincoln High students in De-
cember 1969 when it was announced the high school would be closed. 
“Lincoln was the cradle of black culture 
back then,” Chalmers said. “They loved that place, we all loved it, and we fought for it.”
Lincoln High alumnus talks desegregation, school’s closingFRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
THERE WILL BE A GRAPHIC 
DESIGN DISPLAY.
By Courtney Mims
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Lisa Klug’s friend was 
diagnosed with HIV in 1998, Klug 
was devastated. 
But Klug and her friend decided 
to make the best out of a bad situa-
tion — by telling her story.
Now, about 20 years later, Klug 
is being honored for a graphic nov-el she created to tell her friend’s 
story. Klug’s work will be displayed 
today, which is World AIDS Day.
Klug, 56, along with three oth-
ers, entered a graphic novel contest 
hosted by UF Health Science Center 
Libraries and the Sequential Artists Workshop to educate people on 
what it’s like to live with AIDS. The 
novels, which ranged from three to 
10 pages, were judged by a panel 
of four people, including two art-
ists, a librarian and a GatorWell 
specialist.
“I think we both had a real bit-
tersweet feeling about (winning),” Klug said. “Part of me was like ‘Oh yes, we won’ and then I’m like, 
‘but it’s her story’. I really wish I 
had never been able to write it. I 
wish she weren’t ill.”
Ariel Pomputius, one of the or-
ganizers of the contest and a UF Health Science Center Libraries li-
aison librarian, said the idea came from thinking about ways to en-gage the student community.
“We came up with the idea of creating comics,” Pomputius said. 
“Then we thought if we get people 
involved and encourage people to 
create their own comics, then that 
is even more engagement.”
She said they hoped by creating 
a visual product, students would 
be more interested in learning 
about HIV and AIDS.
The comic contest opened in 
May, she said, and entries were 
due in the Fall.
“We wanted creative and en-
gaging messages,” Pomputius said. 
“But we also wanted them to be accurate in terms of the health in-
formation that they were putting in 
them, too.”
All entries were compiled in a 
magazine and will be given out at 
an artist workshop today. Pages from the graphic novels will be en-larged and displayed on the walls, 
giving people the chance to walk 
through the novels, she said.
Klug said she’s incredibly proud 
of her friend for making the best of 
her life with the disease.
“It’s very important for younger 
people to understand this disease has not gone away,” Klug said, “And anyone can catch it.”
Along with UF Health Science 
Center Libraries, other student 
groups are raising awareness for 
World AIDS Day. Gators for Re-sults, Students Taking Action 
Against Racism and GatorWell will 
be on Turlington Plaza today pass-ing out condoms and red ribbons, which symbolize AIDS awareness.
Gabriella Insabella, the presi-dent of Gators for Results and a 
UF health education and behavior 
senior, said the event is important 
because of the continuing stigma 
around AIDS and HIV.
Evelyn Veras, the agency chair 
for Students Taking Action Against 
Racism, said the group is partici-
pating because of continuing health disparities across races. Veras said, for example, Latinos in the U.S. are 
more likely to be diagnosed with 
HIV.
“I hope that our event helps 
provide resources along with re-ducing the stigma around AIDS,” 
Insabella, 21, said. “We really 
want to show our campus and the Gainesville community we’re all ready to take action to put an end 
to AIDS.”UF groups raise AIDS awareness for World AIDS Day
VOLUNTEERS WILL HELP 
CLEAR DAMAGE CAUSED BY 
HURRICANE IRMA.
By Michele Rosalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Devil’s Millhopper Geological State Park’s 
staff hopes to get help from citizens Saturday 
clearing the damage Hurricane Irma left be-hind at the park.
Volunteers will remove parts of the sink-
hole’s boardwalk and help carry the damaged wood up the 232-step staircase from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., said Robert Steele, the park man-ager. The sinkhole, located at 4732 Millhopper Road, has remained closed since the hurricane in September. He said although staff has al-
ready disassembled the bottom boardwalk af-
ter it was destroyed by flooding and landslides, the amount of wooden boards that were taken apart is too large for the employees to carry up.
“(The volunteer event is) a huge help to my 
staff and I,” he said. “If we had to carry all that wood up on our own, it would take us forever.” 
The park staff will provide gloves and protective glasses to volunteers, Steele said. Friends of San Felasco, a citizen support group for the park, will give volunteers lunch. 
While entry into the sinkhole is restricted, 
visitors still have access to the park’s visitor 
center and nature trail, which borders the top 
of the sinkhole, Steele said.
“This time of year, when leaves are falling 
off the trees, you can see all the way down to the bottom,” he said. 
Elena Cabezas, a Santa Fe College physical 
therapist assistant senior, said she takes visit-ing friends and family members to the park, which is one of the her favorites in Gainesville. Cabezas, 32, plans on volunteering Saturday, and it will be the first time she will visit the park since Hurricane Irma hit, she wrote in an email. 
“Enough of us, hopefully, will show up 
on Saturday and we can get a bunch of work done,” she said.
Steele said the sinkhole has no set date to 
reopen, but he hopes it will be reopened by Christmas.
“Because (the boardwalk) is such a rare 
feature, everything that goes into the Devil’s Millhopper has to be specifically designed for this site, and that takes time,” he said. 
Devil’s Millhopper to host volunteer dayBy Kylee Gates
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF pop-up art shop is coming 
back for its second year, but in a new 
location.
Last year, the Fridge Pop-Up Shop 
was located in a gallery space in Thor-
nebrook Village Shopping Center in 
Gainesville. This year, it will be held 
on campus at the Mint Design Studio in Infinity Hall. The shop is open to-
day and Saturday from 10 a.m. to 7 
p.m.
The shop features artwork made 
by UF students, faculty and alumni. 
Ashley Fuchs, the Mint Workshop co-
ordinator, said the theme is an hom-
age to the tradition of hanging the best 
work on the refrigerator with pride, also known as being “fridge-worthy.”
“We’re trying to build this into a 
cultural thing where every year, peo-
ple know it’s going to happen,” Fuchs 
said. “So then they’re excited about 
submitting and wanting to sell.”
Fuchs said the price of each piece 
is up to the artist. Forty percent of the proceeds will go to the Mint Studio to 
fund the pop-up shop next year. Stu-
dents are encouraged to think about 
the percentage cut when pricing their 
works, which can lead to higher pric-
es, she said.
The most expensive piece sold last 
year was a painting for $2,000 and the least expensive was a packet of post-cards for $3.
Marissa Volk, a UF graphic design 
masters student and the graduate as-sistant for Mint Studio, said she and 
Fuchs helped put the shop together 
after the idea was brought up by a colleague.
“People are always creating, but 
there’s no unified outlet to sell those works,” Volk said.
Last year, more than 100 people 
stopped at the shop and most of the artwork was sold by the last day, Volk 
said.
There were more than 30 submis-
sions last year. Volk said they didn’t 
expect that many submissions and had to keep art pieces in the back 
room due to lack of space. If a piece 
was too big to fit inside the shop, a 
picture was provided to show buyers. 
When someone expressed interest, 
they were allowed to go see the piece 
in person and purchase it from there.
Volk said this year there were 
more than 60 submissions from peo-
ple who hope to gain exposure. Volk 
hopes in a few semesters, they will be 
able to obtain their goal of establish-
ing a permanent shop.
“The original goal was to always 
have a place where work could be sold, but I think we need a few more 
semesters to work out a few kinks,” 
she said.UF art show moves 
to new location
THE CAFE’S HOURS WILL CHANGE TO 7 
A.M. TO 3 P .M. DAIL Y.
By Emily Nolan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Root & Pecker will start serving breakfast, stop of-
fering dinner and bring food truck rallies back Mon-
day.
The cafe, located at 5408 NW Eighth Ave., will 
change its hours to 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. daily and serve 
breakfast items from when they open until 10 a.m., 
said Brad Brooks, the co-owner, CEO and head chef. 
New menu options include homemade bagels and vegan quiche cradled in a hash-brown crust. 
“We haven’t seen the success during dinner as we 
have in our daytime hours,” said Brooks. “When you 
come to our property at 7 a.m. the parking lot is full, 
but if you come at 7 p.m. there’s like three cars.”
Root & Pecker is currently open for dinner from 
Wednesday to Saturday, but once the changes are made, the cafe will only be available in the evenings 
for private parties and community events.
“We basically want to open up the nighttime space 
for more community centered events, like we used to 
do,” Brooks said. 
The cafe will host food truck rallies occasionally, 
but dates for the rallies have not been set. Brooks said 
trucks used to serve food in the parking lot the first 
Friday of every month, but the tradition, which started April 2013, stopped during the summer of 2016 when 
residents nearby complained about the noise the event 
caused.
Root & Pecker won’t offer any deals Monday be-
cause Brooks doesn’t want to overload the kitchen 
staff, he said. “In restaurants, you get one shot to make a first 
impression. We don’t want to overwhelm ourselves 
and be counterproductive,” he said.
Brooks opened Root & Pecker four years ago when 
he found out he was going to have a son, Evan. He 
had owned a garden supply store on the same prop-
erty but couldn’t compete with stores like The Home Depot and Lowe’s, he said. The name of the cafe was 
Cymply Fresh before he changed the name in 2016.
“My son was definitely the main catalyst behind 
Root & Pecker,” said Brooks. “The restaurant opened 
two weeks after Evan was born.”
Hannah Green, a 23-year-old Gainesville resident 
and Root & Pecker regular, said she is disappointed 
she’s losing the dinner option. 
“I’m sad that they aren’t serving dinner because 
it’s hard to find vegan restaurants, and when I go out, I want to be able to go somewhere with my non-vegan 
friends,” she said. Root & Pecker to serve 
breakfast, stop offering dinner
BREAKFAST MENU OPTIONS:
• Fried egg on a biscuit $8.50
• BLT on a bagel with a fried egg $7.50
• Breakfast burrito $6.50
• Bagel and lox $6
• Waffle plate $8
• Biscuits and gravy $9
• Quiche $9
• T ofu Scramble $11
BAGELS MADE DAIL Y, IN-HOUSE:
• Single $2
• Dozen $15The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORCampus is crowded. Like, really crowded. More so than usu-
al, and you’re fed up with it. Everyone who neglected to attend 
classes or show their face in the library is ﬁ  nally creeping out of their dorms and apartments with the realization that ﬁ  nals week is just around the corner.
This means no scooter parking. Anywhere. No free tables in 
the library — especially ones near outlets. Worst of all, there are impossibly long waits at every Starbucks on campus. 
After coming to terms with the fact you just might have to 
share a table with a stranger in the Marston Science Library base-ment if you were ever going to ﬁ  nd a place to settle in, you plop down next to an innocent-looking guy who looks like he is study-ing pretty hard. 
“Good, they won’t try to talk to me. I can get some work 
done,” you think to yourself.
This fantasy lasts about an hour and you’re really in the zone 
with your studying, certain you’re on your way to an A in chem-istry  — and you’re interrupted. 
You’re shocked to ﬁ  nd at some point during your focused 
study session, someone had thrown a paper airplane at you. You look around to see if you recognize anyone around you. Nope, nothing but unfamiliar and stressed-out faces.
You curiously unfold the airplane and on the paper it says:
Darts & Laurels
With another week came more revelations about sexual as-
sault and even more incriminating details about celebrities and other high-proﬁ  le members of society we once held in high es-teem. Needless to say, the upset we felt every time our news alerts went off on our phones is the ﬁ  rst unpleasant dart of the 
week.
Revelations about NBC’s “Today” show’s Matt Lauer were 
probably the most difﬁ  cult to stomach. It isn’t that we hold Lauer to a higher standard, but for a lot of us, he was somewhat of a staple in our lives as we grew up. Before the time of smartphones and social media, many of us woke up and ate our Cheerios with the voices of Matt Lauer and Katie Couric in the background as our parents digested morning news through the “Today” show. At the least, we all watched him present the Macy’s Thanksgiv-
ing Day Parade. To learn about some of the disgusting things he 
allegedly did was, to put it lightly, heartbreaking. 
While it feels like just yesterday we were gifted the laurel of 
saying goodbye to former UF head football Coach Jim McElwain, we have just as soon been granted another with the appoint-
ment of Dan Mullen as his replacement.
Mullen, who previously worked for Mississippi State Univer-
sity, is returning to UF after nine years away. From 2005 to 2008, Mullen helped lead the Gators to win two national titles as an 
assistant coach. Mullen has expressed he is prepared for the chal-
lenge our school represents. We can only hope this upcoming season goes better than the previous one.
This upgrade in the coaching staff, unfortunately, did not 
come soon enough. Our football team ended the season with the record of four games won and seven lost. We were not able to earn a bowl game and will not be going to the SEC champion-ship. Although we often pride ourselves on going to a school that is about much more than just sports, it would be nice to have a 
football team to brag about.
There is one thing every one of us has to look forward to: a 
break. We award our last laurel to the end of the 2017 Fall 
semester. After months of homework, tests and early morning classes, we will have nearly an entire month to relax, have fun and blow off steam.
Whether you plan to spend your break on the couch binging 
Netﬂ  ix, on vacation somewhere exciting or surrounding yourself with friends and family from back home, it is something to be ex-
cited about. We have less than one week of classes left and just a 
few short days of exams between us and a month without stress. Pull through, dear reader! We can do this!
We should avoid unhealthy, discouraging memes 
In a way, the process of how rapidly and ex-
pansively a new meme spreads is impressive. 
Someone takes an image that is only mildly 
funny and then does something to it that sud-denly renders it into a new creative medium of 
expression. If the meme is hot, “memelords” from around the internet will start using the new tem-
plate and begin the production of new content uti-
lizing this meme. For a few days, it will be the only meme you see on the internet, until it dissolves into irrelevancy just as quickly as it entered it, the 
ultimate fate of every meme.
But just like any substantial economy, the meme sector of 
the internet has its own categories and common themes, with 
self-pity and depression being a large component. The last couple decades of postmodern thought have instilled a strong 
— but potentially debilitating — strain of self-awareness in our 
generation, which now believes a little too heavily in making fun of oneself and laughing at one’s own shortcomings.
Nihilism seems to be cool nowadays, especially on the in-
ternet, where large sects of the meme community place exis-
tential dread on the same comedic level as slipping on a ba-
nana peel. Spend 10 minutes browsing Reddit, or the cesspool that is the “explore” section of Instagram, and you will see the far too prevalent jokes and overall mishandling of themes like 
depression and hopelessness.
It kind of makes sense. I’ve laughed at such memes many 
times, but the laughter is usually followed by the unsettling 
feeling of having Kermit the Frog remind you of your life’s struggles.
Depressed college student memes are popular because they 
are relatable, and that is exactly what memes are to be. Memes are essentially massive inside jokes, tapping into the collective experiences and culture of our demographic and somehow generating humor out of seemingly meaningless pictures.
The majority of the time, self-awareness is an incredibly 
useful and beneﬁ  cial trait to have. It allows you to honestly assess yourself (strengths and weaknesses) and your situation, ultimately helping you improve overall. But the strain of cyni-
cal and twisted self-awareness found online has transformed into “woe is me” and self-pity and has ditched the 
one thing that is supposed to make self-awareness 
an admirable trait — the motivation to take that 
awareness and improve yourself with it.
What used to be a way to kill time between 
classes in high school or grant a laugh at lunch now reminds me of upcoming midterms, the pos-
sible outcomes of utter failure and the overall 
plight of life as a college student. It’s not a coping mechanism, but instead a catalyst that only fur-thers the negativity.
Memes are generally a wonderful thing, but like any re-
source available to anybody, they can very easily be abused and contorted. Make a creative template open to anybody with an internet connection and you’re bound to have users creat-ing offensive content. Such terrible and offensive memes are 
rarely stumbled upon innocently and are instead nestled deep 
in the dark corners of the internet, the regions that require some deliberate searching to arrive at.
The sad part is a signiﬁ  cant portion of mainstream memes 
(found on the front pages of Reddit, Facebook and Instagram) 
are this toxic strain of “everybody is depressed” and “life is 
suffering” mentality. Aside from completely mishandling and negatively normalizing the sensitive topic of mental health, such memes only create a detrimental feedback loop of woe-
fulness and self-pity.
I don’t know when exactly it became funny or cool to cel-
ebrate personal shortcomings or hurdles online, but it turns 
out to be a hit. It’s not as if it doesn’t make any sense either. Humans have always stuck together and built social bonds to 
cope with and confront their collective plight, but this is not a 
healthy method of coping and does not actually confront the issues in an effective way. Such memes are funny, but I fear the popularization of depression and self-pity will only propa-gate more of the same, instead of encouraging people to stand 
up and confront their lives with conﬁ  dence.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
In about two weeks I'm going to graduate. 
It’s been an interesting four and a half years, ﬁ  lled with ups and downs, things I expected and others I never thought would. I didn’t think I’d end up at UF, but I sit here now 
and realize this was where I needed to be. I'm happy with how the last four and a half years transpired, and now I wait for the next.
This is my last column. There’s a host of 
things I should talk about— including but not limited to: life after graduation, everyone and everything I've been grateful for in college, fol-lowing your passions/dreams/goals, how the real treasure was the friends I made along the 
way, et cetera. That’s a lot of topics (a lot of 
cliche topics, mind you) to cover.
Instead, I'm going to use this last column 
to talk about endings. As an English major and lover of stories, I value a good ending. People often talk about the beginnings of stories and trade fa-vorite ﬁ  rst lines. But rarely do we talk about the last lines. It’s easy to 
start; it’s harder to ﬁ  nish. I’ve started 
many books with promising begin-nings, only to ﬁ  nd unsatisfactory endings. 
Summoning the feeling of the ﬁ  rst 
weeks of freshman year is easy; one remembers anticipation, excitement, sticky Florida August air and silhouettes of Spanish-moss-covered trees. It felt like this was 
the start of something great, something wonder-
ful. It's now the end of something great.
Often, we try to stick endings together with 
beginnings. This is the end of one thing, but the beginning of another. It's the end of my undergraduate years, but the beginning of my experience as an adult/graduate/student/corporate cog in our capitalist, consumeristic 
society.
I don’t like this. I think we ought 
to appreciate endings as they are. 
That we try to spin endings into posi-tives reveals we have turned them into negatives. Endings are facets of life and contain a little bit of both. 
Maybe because of the human draw to create bi-naries for no reason, we regard endings as nega-
tive and beginnings as positive. The only time 
we want an ending is to something bad. We want good things to last. But everything ends — good and bad — so we should reevaluate how we perceive the end.
In my life, something is ending. Like the last 
lines of my favorite books, I'll remember it. The beginning started with hope, promise — the middle had twists and turns and yes, some dull 
parts, horrible parts and exciting parts — and 
now, we're on the last page. There's a tinge of sadness as we ﬁ  nish books and movies, as we ﬁ  nish life events, but we should appreciate they happened, that we got to experience them. Their impermanence is what makes these moments and parts of our lives special. The fact they end isn't something to mourn, but an integral part of life and humanity we should appreciate.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her columns appeared on Fridays.
Nicole (which is not her real name) was a freshman, a virgin and far from her Mid-western home. She indulged in the sta-ples of ﬁ  rst-semester college life like alco-hol, fraternity parties and boys. Although 
she heard stories of sexual assault on campus, she never thought its reach would extend to her. 
“Yeah, it happens,” she told me about her 
impression of sexual assault before being raped, “but it’s not going to happen to me.” 
That impression would prove naive. While 
walking on Fraternity Row one night in Fall of her freshman year, brothers from Kappa Alpha Order Fraternity, an Interfraternity Council at UF, 
invited Nicole and a friend inside to party, Nicole 
said. She had been there before and thought the men were nice.
After some time swing dancing, Nicole and a 
brother began making out. She set clear bound-aries. “I am a virgin,” she remembers telling him. “I will not have sex with you.” He told her it was OK, they didn’t have to do anything she didn’t want to. 
Without good reason to doubt his intentions, 
she continued. They kissed. They undressed. He got forward. She protested physically and verbally, resisting his advances, reaching for her clothes, telling him she’d had enough. He ignored her.
“He basically forced my legs open 
and tried to force me to have sex with him,” she recalls. She said he com-plained during the rape she wasn’t “letting” him have sex with her. 
On a sunny afternoon outside Pas-
cal’s Coffeehouse, Nicole recounted his words with a pained, wry smile. His com-plaint is ridiculously oblivious. It’s also reﬂ  ective of a larger cultural problem in fraternities.
During interviews with fraternity men in the 
past weeks, only one question had unanimous “yes” answers: “Do you feel that your fraternity encourages the objectiﬁ  cation of women?”
Men from eight fraternities said with little 
hesitation that while their fraternities stress re-spect for women in person, nobody resists disre-specting them in private. 
When asked about his fraternity’s treatment 
of women, one Theta Chi Fraternity member said, “Women are objectiﬁ  ed pretty heavily when talking amongst the brothers.” He described the practice of gather-ing “Rush boobs,” where brothers encourage girls to write “Rush (in-sert fraternity name here)” on their 
breasts and take pictures. They then 
distribute the pictures in fraternity-wide group chats. Members from two other fraternities, including Pi Lambda Phi Fraternity, conﬁ  rmed the practice isn't speciﬁ  c to Theta 
Chi. 
One member of Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity 
said pledging processes in his fraternity encour-
ages brothers to “get with as many girls as pos-
sible.” The promiscuity, he said, wins pledges “brownie points” with older brothers. 
This behavior shouldn't be written off as, 
“Boys will be boys.” It has tangible effects, teaching fraternity men to treat women as sexual chess pieces to be conquered rather than people to be engaged with. As multiple rape survivors and sorority women said, many fraternity men 
feel “entitled” to sex, especially after a woman 
pays them attention. We can trace this tendency to small moments when men are measured by breasts he’s seen or women he’s slept with.  
The Nicoles of the world suffer the conse-
quences of that entitlement.
For this reason, senior fraternity men, who 
younger members respect, need to be hypercriti-cal and vocal about objectiﬁ  cation of women in their chapters. Tolerance won't do. 
UF also must adhere to that commitment. 
Fraternity punishment at UF is a temporary pres-sure. During scrutiny, normally after public mis-steps, UF is hard on offending organizations. 
Scrutiny subsides, UF lets up, and organiza-
tions return to their original behavior. We see 
this in fraternity hazing data provided by UF’s 
Student Conduct & Conﬂ  ict Resolution ofﬁ  ce. Since 2000, fraternities like Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, Theta Chi, Alpha Epsilon Pi Frater-nity and Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity have been punished twice or three times over. 
If we’re unwilling to permanently punish or-
ganizations for repeated violations, why should they craft permanent solutions?
Champe Barton is a UF economics and psy-
chology senior. His column appears on Fridays.On the beginnings and endings of things
When sex is king, fraternity men stoop low for the throneColumn
Column
Champe Barton
opinions@alligator.org
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgscience and engineering sophomore and task 
force member, said hiring more counselors for the CWC would strengthen UF.
“We have this saying on campus, ‘Every Gator Counts’. This is one way to make it truly count,” Ahmed said.
Task force members asked the audience 
questions about the climate of mental health at UF, including questions about how the task-force can help them and what improvements can be made to current mental health services.Students expressed frustration with the 
wait times to see counselors at the CWC.
Dhara Patel, a 20-year old UF Spanish soph-
omore, said she sometimes felt she was not be-ing heard by her counselors.
“I have had good and bad experiences with 
the Counseling & Wellness Center,” Patel said. 
“I really encouraged my friends to go and they 
came back extremely disappointed, so even with the counselors we do have, I think better training would be effective.”
Patel decided to come to the town hall be-
cause of her trust issues with SG, she said. She also said she wants to see the CWC grow.
“I just wanted to come and voice what the 
needs are of other students who could benefit from the Counseling & Wellness Center,” she 
said.
@camille_respess
crepess@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
By Matthew 
Pennington
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. 
and Chinese generals engaged in 
an unusual set of security talks Wednesday, just hours after North Korea’s most powerful 
missile test yet, focused on how 
the American and Chinese mili-taries might communicate in a crisis.
As President Donald Trump 
greeted the North Korea’s launching of another intercon-tinental ballistic missile with fa-miliar demands for China to get 
tougher with its ally, the low-pro-
file and unpublicized meeting at the National Defense University in Washington was taking place amid signs China is more willing at this time to discuss how the two world powers would man-age an even worse emergency on the divided Korean Peninsula.The Pentagon stressed the 
talks were scheduled before North Korea’s surprise missile launch early Wednesday. Offi-cials insisted the dialogue wasn’t centered on North Korea or any-
thing else in particular.
Trump has vowed to pre-
vent North Korea from having 
the capability to strike the U.S. mainland with a nuclear-tipped missile — using military force if necessary. But some experts said the missile fired on a high trajec-tory that splashed down in the 
Sea of Japan showed North Ko-
rea’s ability to strike Washington and the U.S. Eastern Seaboard.
The threat of a military con-
frontation is making China re-think its resistance to discussing contingencies involving North Korea, according to experts. 
In a phone conversation with 
Trump on Wednesday, Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated his desire for a diplomatic reso-lution to the standoff with North Korea.
Objectives for Wednesday’s 
military consultations appeared modest.
“The engagement will serve 
as an opportunity to discuss how to manage crises, prevent mis-calculations, and reduce the risk of misunderstanding,” the office of Gen. Joseph Dunford, chair-man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told The Associated Press in a statement.
Oriana Skylar Mastro, a 
Georgetown University profes-sor, said her Chinese contacts indicated willingness to broach North Korea contingencies in the military dialogue.
“Things are shifting right now 
in both China and the United States. There seems to be an opening,” said Mastro. 
AP writer Robert Burns 
contributed to this report.
US, China hold lowkey military 
talks amid North Korea tension
THE TOURNAMENT RAISED 
$6,000 LAST YEAR.
By Kuvira Sanichara
Alligator Contributing Writer
Golf players will tee off today at 
Haile Plantation Golf & Country Club to 
fundraise for athletes from the Alachua County chapter of Special Olympics 
Florida.
The Second Annual Golf Classic 
Tournament, which will be hosted at 
the Mark Bostick Golf Course and last year raised $6,000, will start at 12:30 
p.m. This year’s goal is $10,000 and 
goes toward athletes’ expenses includ-
ing competitions and travel, said Dav-ey King, the county director of Special 
Olympics Florida, Alachua County. He 
said the money aids special athletes 
who would normally not have the re-
sources to participate in their sport.
“We never want a cost to be a bar-
rier of entry,” King said.Sabrina Ochoa, a development 
intern, helped contact businesses for sponsorship, including BMW of 
Gainesville and Perry Roofing Contrac-
tors.
“This is my first year involved with 
Special Olympics, and I can say that it has been a blast,” she said.
The cost to play in the tournament 
is $100 and includes green fees, a cart, lunch and a tee gift, according to the organization’s website.
Special Olympics Florida, Alachua 
County heavily relies on volunteers and donations to support intellectually disabled athletes, King said.
“This event means that people in 
the community care about our athletes 
with intellectual disabilities and sup-
port their involvement in sports and 
other activities,” he said. “Whenever I’m around (special) athletes, I’m al-ways having a good time. Their happy attitudes and personalities are just so infectious.”Golf tournament fundraises 
for Special Olympics athletes
HEALTH,  from pg. 1Students asked about the CWC
200 to 300 stuffed animals of their cow mas-
cot Thursday and coupons Wednesday.
Wednesday’s event on the sidewalk out-
side the store attracted lines of people from 9 
a.m. to 6 p.m. Attendees walked up a 5-foot red carpet, pressed a button, and a machine 
printed coupons for free menu items.
Nich Rardin, a UF journalism freshman, 
was one of 100 people who won Chick-fil-A for a year, which counted as 52 free chicken 
sandwich meals, fries and a drink. 
After waiting in line for 10 minutes, 
the 18-year-old strutted the red carpet and pressed the button.
“For a few minutes, when I felt like I was 
on my own red carpet getting something for free, it was exciting,” he said. “They made 
you feel like it was about you.”
This franchise has a few characteristics 
that set it apart from most other Chick-fil-As, Kaufmann said. The restaurant offers a sepa-
rate space for people to pick up mobile or-
ders, which is meant to streamline customer 
service and prevent congestion. 
“It’s something that I wanted to be able to bring to the Gainesville community because it’s so tech-savvy,” she said. 
Kaufmann discovered her love for the col-
lege atmosphere while working for Chick-fil-
A when she attended the University of Cen-tral Florida. She hopes to make her newly 
opened franchise a staple in the lives of 
Gators. 
“We want to be known as UF’s Chick-fil-
A, and we want to continue to do a lot of 
things with the UF community,” she said. CHICK-FIL-A,  from pg. 1100 people won free Chick-fil-Alease.
During Nagy’s time, the museum got 
a wing with galleries for contemporary 
art, classrooms and a cafe in 2005 and a 
wing for Asian art in 2012.
Segal said Nagy is a nurturing leader. 
Although it’s unusual for an organiza-
tion’s director to do so, Nagy takes on 
interns under her wing every semes-ter, including her final semester in the Spring.
She does it because she believes in 
the museum’s mission to serve students, Segal said. She also knows the future of museums depends on future genera-
tions.
It’s her way of telling the 62 museum 
staff members: “If I can do it, you can, 
too,” Segal said.
A particular skill Nagy has is she re-members everything. Segal said she al-ways keeps the museum’s strategic plan and its goals in mind, and constantly 
checks in with employees.
“I have learned a tremendous amount 
from her as a leader,” he said. “She set a 
really high bar for consistency, integrity, 
transparency, energy — anything that 
ends with a ‘y’ and is positive.”
Segal said he thinks it won’t be dif-
ficult for the new museum’s director to continue Nagy’s legacy because she cre-
ated the initial connections within the 
community.
As for Nagy, she’s not sure what the 
next challenge she takes on will be.
“I feel like I need a break and a re-
fresh to think about what I’ll do next,” she said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgHARN,  from pg. 1She expanded the art collections 
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
FIRE TRAINING
Gainesville Fire Rescue performs a training exercise outside the Hampton Inn & Suites, 
located at 101 SE First Ave., on Thursday evening.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
DE-STRESS STUDY FEST
Target and the Reitz Programming Board’s De-stress Study Fest offered free facial masks, 
headphones, Starbucks beverages and ride attractions.LEFT:
Students relax in a hangout area on the North Lawn during the De-stress Study Fest.
BELOW:
Sara Jamhour, a 19-year-old UF public relations sophomore, takes a spin on an attraction on the North Lawn on Thursday. 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
• Musicians/Bands  
  WANTED
• Pavilion available for  
  group rental• 18 miles to UF Campus
17500 NE US Highway 301
Waldo, FL 32694
352-468-3988
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK song
ABOUT 500 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE EVENT. 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Irving Roth said he didn’t 
understand why he was at Aus-
chwitz. 
“Why was I there? What 
crime did I commit?” the Holo-
caust survivor said as the audi-
ence sat in silence. 
About 500 students came out 
to hear Roth speak at the Reitz Union Auditorium on Wednes-day night. About 350 students were able to watch Roth speak in the auditorium, while the rest were taken to an overﬂ  ow 
room to watch the speech from 
a Facebook Live video. 
“My crime was a very sim-
ple one,” Roth said. “I was a 14-year-old Jew. My parents were Jewish. My grandparents were Jewish.”
Roth told his story of surviv-
al after he was transported to 
Auschwitz, a Nazi concentra-
tion camp, as a teenager. As he spoke, Roth made jokes about his childhood and his experi-ences with American soldiers after being freed from the con-centration camp. As he spoke, the audience laughed with him or, at later parts of his speech, wiped away tears. 
He also spoke about how 
the non-Jewish members of his community alienated him be-
cause of his faith. 
“That’s what made what 
was next possible; the support 
of the people,” Roth said. 
Taylor Roth, the president 
of UF’s Christians United for Is-rael branch, said the goal of the event was to present students with the increasingly rare op-
portunity to hear directly from 
a Holocaust survivor. Taylor Roth is not related to Irving Roth. 
“I think they’ll take away 
from this event the opportunity of a lifetime to actually be able to tell their grandchildren one day that they listened to some-
body who’s survived one of 
the worst events in human his-tory and still had the courage to share his experiences and educate others,” the UF public relations sophomore said. 
The 19-year-old said Roth’s 
speech will allow students to understand the Holocaust and 
prevent something like it from 
occurring again. 
“I think it relates to the polit-ical environment today because there’s a lot of anti-Semitic rhet-oric in college campuses, espe-cially when we had a speaker like Richard Spencer coming, and this is just a way we can 
counter-challenge that with our 
own free speech,” she said. 
Jillian Stern, a Jewish UF 
student, said she didn’t want to miss out on one of her last few chances to hear from a Ho-locaust survivor. 
“I think he was unique be-
cause he was able to bring hu-
mor to his story,” the UF his-
tory junior said. “He was able to not be so sad, but rather talk about it in a lighthearted man-ner and look back and not see the good in it, but in a way for people to relate and understand easier.”
The 20-year-old said stu-
dents should share Roth’s story.
“As people, we have an obli-
gation to continue telling these survivors’ stories, even when they’re no longer with us,” she said. “It’s going to be our responsibility to share their sto-ries and tell the truth about the Holocaust.”
 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
Holocaust survivor speaks at UF about time in Auschwitz  
Christina Morales / Alligator Staff
Holocaust survivor Irving Roth speaks to students about his experiences in 
Auschwitz. Roth spoke to about 350 students in the Reitz Union Auditorium on Wednesday. 
By Soﬁ  a Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville was ranked No. 20 on a 
list of the top cities to live for those with 
student debt.
Student Loan Hero, a lender and ser-
vice that gives information on loans, published the list Nov. 7, and Gainesville was the only Florida city to make the top 
20, with Durham, North Carolina, being 
No. 1. Gainesville has a low cost of liv-ing, compared to the national average, Elyssa Kirkham, the media outreach spe-cialist of College Hero, wrote in an email. This was the first year Student Loan Hero created the rankings list, and the com-
pany calculated the scores by comparing 
disposable income with average local wage after covering basic living expenses and taxes, Kirkham said.
She said the average cost of living in 
Gainesville is lower than the national av-erage. The average rent in Gainesville is  $852 per month.
“Housing costs are the area where 
(Gainesville residents) see the most savings, paying 9.2 percent less on this expense compared to the national aver-age,” Kirkham said.Emily McKee, a Sante Fe College nurs-
ing freshman, has taken out more than a 
thousand dollars in loans for her first se-
mester. To pay off her loans, the 18-year-old works 17 hours a week between her jobs at the Mark Bostick Golf Course and Panera Bread, for $8.10 and $8.25 in 
hourly wages, respectively.
McKee said she agrees with the rank-
ing and would reccommend living in 
Gainesville to others. However, she said 
she spends a great deal of her earnings 
on tuition and rent.
“I think overall Gainesville isn’t all 
that cheap,” she said.Gainesville ranked among top cities for residents with student debt
TOP 20 BES T CITIES
FOR RESIDE NTS WITH  STUDE NT LOANS
ACCORDIN G TO  STUDEN T LO AN HERO:
1. Durham, N C
2. Kennewick , WA
3. Hou ston, TX
4. Des Moine s, IA
5. Aus tin, TX
6. Kalamazoo, MI
7. Memphis, TN
8. San Antonio, TX
9. Knoxville, TN
10. Huntsville, AL11. Dallas, T X
12. Columbus, O H
13. Oklahoma Ci ty, OK
14. Kansas Cit y, MO
15. St. Louis, MO
16. Dayton, OH
17. Kingspor t, TN
18. Phoenix, AZ
19. Amarillo, TX
20. Gain esville, FLBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608Century 21 Elite LocationsCall Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Felt single speed/fixie with flip flop hub. White Industries freewheel & custom Campagnolo components. One of a kind, build cost $1350. 55cm/medium size frame in excellent condi-tion. Absolutely a steal at $480. 352-278-4421  12-1-17-3-9●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N       12-1-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils 
& internet incl. Grad student preferred. 
Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for very suc-cessful Entrepreneur. $20/hr. Must have vibrant personality, be in great physical shape, enjoys sporting events. Office sup-port; computer &amp; plan social functions; light house work/errands; some travel. Email resume & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com    1-8-18-6-14RGIS, LLCHiring NOW!
Inventory Associates• Starting: $9.00• Flexible p/t work• Promotion opportunities• Regular wage reviews• Grp health plan after 90 days• Equal Opportunity EmployerStart your career today!Apply @: www.rgis.comJob #: PRE1511       1-8-18-6-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14
Weekdays after 2:30 pm. To help with 3 kids ages 8-15, with after school pickups and activities. $12/hr. Experience, references required. email: rosenson@ufl.edu.     12-6-17-3-14
WANTEDBartender & Barback Experienced, Reliable and ResponsibleDirty Bar, Gainesville FL(352) 373-1141     1-10-18-5-14
Girls Place, Inc. Classroom CounselorsLooking for passionate & enthusiastic peoplePT M-F After SchoolApply online www.girlsplace.net     1-8-18-4-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
Reduce Your Student Loans & Obtain Financial Freedom!  Join Our Affiliate Program At ConversionPros and Get Paid on 3 Levels! Unlimited Potential!  See Exciting Details at http://ernie187.recruitlikeamachine.com/partner    1-8-18-5-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA ertification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.     12-1-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Qualifier for a hall
entry?
5 Excuse
descriptor
9 Med. recordings
13 Over, in much
Twain dialogue
14 “__ my way”
15 Relatives of
windsocks
17 Hugo character
memorablyportrayed byCharlesLaughton
19 Fuming20 Uncle __21 Risk pieces22 Type of large TV23 With 36- and 44-
Across, what 17-Across mighthave said whenhis job becametoo repetitious?
26 Sitarist Shankar28 Metal sources29 Important part of
a whale’s diet
31 Feigned33 Many an IRS
employee
36 See 23-Across39 “Got it now?”40 Parts of Walmart
work uniforms
41 Frodo’s home,
with “the”
42 Gentlemen
43 Actor Omar44 See 23-Across51 Lengthy account52 Participate in a
race, maybe
53 Fluoride-touting
org.
56 Blazing
57 17-Across’
workplace
59 Problems electric
razors should
prevent
60 Avoid getting into
deep water?
61 “Lobster
Telephone” artist
62 “__ who?”63 Monthly Roman
calendaroccurrences
64 Turned yellow,
perhapsDOWN
1 Customer info
sources
2 Lago contents
3 ’80s cop show
featuringFerraris
4 USN rank5 Keep in check6 Merged gas
company
7 Auto datum
8 Brian of music
9 What
superheroes
seek to thwart
10 Gold fineness
units
11 Grind12 “They __ up!”:
scapegoat’s cry
16 Alteration target18 Infamous Amin22 Intrinsically24 Rank partner25 Doesn’t do much26 Classic movie
theaters
27 “Alfred”
composer
30 Red state?31 Broadway
choreographerfor “Chicago”32 PC key
33 Cuts into, with
“at”
34 Cop’s collar
35 Iowa college
town
37 Jones or Gilliam
of Monty Python
38 Passé pronoun42 Impertinent in
tone
44 PBS “Mystery!”
host Cumming45 LP players46 Erie Canal city
47 More than fear
48 Circumflex
cousin
49 Doesn’t do much50 Satisfied54 Editor’s mark55 Like much of
New Mexico
57 Md. airport
serving D.C.
58 Not quite right
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/01/1712/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, December 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 WC
4 Cardiff-born9 Many Dickens
kids
14 Action film gun15 Kauai greeting
16 Northern home
17 Pap19 Like hardened
mud on boots
20 Asks too many
questions
21 Central points23 Mountain legend24 Pep30 Getting-started
instruction
32 1976 Dylan song
about his firstwife
33 Like FM radio,
typically
36 Old lab heaters37 Playa __ Rey:
L.A. community
38 Pip41 Biol. or chem.42 Places to find
stacks
44 Some DVD
bonus tracks
46 Little dipper?47 Lovey-dovey49 Pop
51 Sounds of activity
55 __ beer56 Legendary
moralist
57 Angiogram
image
60 Pup64 Counterintelligence
targets
65 The life of Paris?66 Tre meno due67 Disconcerting
gaze
68 Stingray kin69 Salary
DOWN
1 Like poorly made
Cream of Wheat
2 Clear blue3 Stay and catch
up
4 Techniques5 “The Hobbit”
being
6 WC7 “Homeland”
channel, for short
8 Enjoyed
themselves9 Contemporary
pagan religion
10 In contact with
11 Kind12 A Capulet, to a
Montague
13 Cover for a bald
spot?
18 Art theft, e.g.
22 Unlatch,
poetically
24 “Deadwood”
actress Jewell
25 Fencing sword26 “Should I have
waited?”
27 Lenox china
brand
28 Word with period
or note
29 It might be a
mirage
31 Koppel and
others
33 By the seat of
one’s pants, e.g.
34 Indira Gandhi’s
father
35 Plumlike fruits
36 Classic
accusation
39 Be catty?40 Missouri River
native
43 Laser device45 Clambake
leftovers
47 Ottoman honorific48 Ice dancing
Olympic goldmedalist Davisand Oscarwinner Streep
50 Pull the plug on
52 Run through
53 2016 Disney film
set in the SouthSeas54 Spread apart
56 Tommie of 
’60s-’70sbaseball
57 Hee-hawing
animal
58 Choose
59 Narrow inlet
61 Barrel wood
62 The Cavaliers of
the ACC
63 It may be 
picked
By Morton J. Mendelson
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/30/1711/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Cranky
1.  Third sign of the zodiac5.  Divine food
2.  Anonymous 6.  Deer family member
3.  Type of squad7.  Greek ____
4.  Coercion PYUMGR
EIGINMNAMAN
SMOEO
AMUDNEN
OPLANTODIANSO
RDSESUANSWERS: 1A-Grumpy  5A-Manna  6A-Moose  7A-Adonis
1D-Gemini  2D-Unnamed  3D-Platoon  4D-Duress  B-Maya Angelou12-1-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This poet and civil rights activist was born 
in St. Louis, Missouri, on April 4, 1928.BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 19 ConnectionsWill Florida's new football 
coach be a success? Two of our writers debate how much success we can expect from Dan Mullen in this week's picks column, pg. 15.Gators announce new defensive coorinator
Florida coach Dan Mullen is bringing another assistant to UF from Missis-
sippi State. T odd Grantham, Mullen's defensive coordinator last season, will serve the same role for Florida next season, the school announced Tuesday. Read our story about Grantham and his track record at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK
Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
Six games into the season, 
Florida's offense is already garnering national attention. 
The Gators sit atop the country 
in scoring offense at 99.5 points per game and have scored over 100 points in four of their six contests.
“(We've) learned that we’re a 
talented offensive group, for sure,” coach Mike White said. “That we’re willing to share the basketball.”
After a home game against New 
Hampshire in which the team to-taled three assists, sharing became a priority.
Through the next three games, 
Florida averaged 18.7 assists per game.“Shoot good shots,” guard Jalen 
Hudson said. “Give up good shots for great shots. I like it. I think it’s a good offense.”
With four players averaging over 
13 points per game, there is a wealth of options for the Gators if they need an offensive jolt.
UF's defense is still a work in 
progress
Throughout the Gators’ three 
games at the Phil Knight Invitation-al in Portland, Oregon, they surren-dered a little over 43 points in the paint per game.
White said that isn’t going to be 
acceptable if Florida wants to make a deep postseason run in March.
“We’re struggling with our inte-
rior defense, from our interior guys, as much as anything else,” White said. “And they’re capable of more than that. They’ve shown that in the past.”
Centers Kevarrius Hayes and 
Gorjok Gak and forward Keith Stone continue to anchor the defense while the Gators await the return of arguably the team’s best defensive player, John Egbunu.
Smaller players know they must 
pick up the slack as well, especially when playing against bigger oppo-nents.
“It’s a team sport, so you’ve got 
to make sure that you’re helping others as well,” Hudson said. “If they get beat, you have to be there to help them as well.”
Florida has a long way to go to 
 Florida oﬀ  ense exceeding expectations
It’s no secret UF 
men's basket-
ball coach Mike 
White doesn’t have conﬁ  dence 
in some of his players just yet. 
It was obvious 
against New Hamp-shire on Nov. 19 when he put in three freshmen 
for just a handful of minutes 
each. After the game, White explained why he limited their 
playing time, citing his players’ 
need to earn it.
“I’m going to put the guys out 
there that I trust the most, both offensively and defensively, in a tight game to help us win,” White said.
I understand 
wanting to run with the athletes who have 
already established 
themselves as reliable options. As a coach, 
it’s the smart and safe 
thing to do.
However, that mentality 
hurts the team in the long run. 
The Gators can skate by early 
working with six players who 
see most of the action, but as 
the season drags on, a lack of depth will come back to haunt 
them. We saw it against Duke on Coach Mike White needs to 
start trusting his freshmenJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16VOLLEYBALL: UF 3, ASU 0
UF faces Miami in the second 
round tonight at 7 in the O'Connell 
Center and on SEC Network +.
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
More than 2,200 fans piled into the 
O'Connell Center on Thursday, eager for 
a full night of Florida volleyball. Just 65 minutes later, they were headed home. 
The No. 2 seed Gators made quick work 
of Alabama State in their ﬁ  rst match of the 
NCAA Tournament, sweeping the Hornets, 
3-0 (25-9, 25-13, 25-9). 
"We took care of business," UF coach 
Mary Wise said.
In its most efﬁ  cient offensive perfor-
mance of the season, featuring a season-high 11 service aces, Florida (26-1) ad-
vanced to a second-round matchup against Miami (22-5) tonight at 7.
After giving up the ﬁ  rst point of the 
postseason to Alabama State, the Gators 
wasted no time taking control of the open-
ing set. The Hornets had no answer for Florida’s balanced offensive attack, in which eight Gators scored.
Senior Carli Snyder served two of her 
three aces in the opening frame, and UF had just one attack error, compared to sev-en from Alabama State. Florida’s 16-point differential was its second-largest margin of victory in a set this season.
The Gators continued their strong play 
into the second set. The Hornets took a 1-0  Gators pummel Alabama State in NCAA Tournament opener
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan (1) tallied five kills in UF's 3-0 sweep of the Hornets on Thursday in the O'Connell Center. With the win, the Gators advanced to the second round of the NCAA T ournament and will face Miami tonight at 7.
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 16Staff Report
A new era is ofﬁ  cially underway 
in Gainesville.
Exactly four weeks after dismiss-
ing disgraced head football coach Jim 
McElwain, Florida’s athletic asso-
ciation announced the hiring of Dan 
Mullen.
Mullen was UF’s offensive coordi-
nator from 2005 to 2008 — winning two national championships along-side Urban Meyer and Tim Tebow — before spending the past nine seasons coaching Mississippi State.
Now, just ﬁ  ve days into his new 
job as the leader of the Gators, Mul-len is already making some changes to the program.
He ﬁ  red interim coach Randy 
Shannon, offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier and four other assistants left over from McElwain’s tenure.
He’s been hot on the recruiting 
trail too, visiting ﬁ  ve-star quarterback 
Justin Fields and earning a commit-
ment from three-star offensive tackle Chris Bleich.
And he’s promised to resurrect 
Florida out of the ashes of the SEC and back into the spotlight as an FBS powerhouse, saying at his introduc-tory news conference on Monday: “I will give relentless effort in every-
thing I do to make sure that we return 
the football program to a national-
championship level.”
But can he?
The Gators were successful in 
Mullen’s ﬁ  rst stint with the team, but they’ve failed to win a conference title since he left and have been mired by problems with offensive inconsis-tency.
So who knows what the future 
holds?
Will Mullen be the next Spurrier, 
or another McElwain?
Sports editor Matt Brannon and 
assistant sports editor Dylan Dixon 
have the answer:
Dan Mullen will be a resound-
ing success because…
I’ll admit I wasn’t sold on the 
Mull-man from Mississippi State 
when I ﬁ  rst heard he was getting hired. I wanted Chip Kelly because he combines a serious win-now mental-
ity with the looks of Winnie the Pooh. 
But after hearing the Mullinator’s ﬁ  rst news conference, I was all in on Mullen. He talked about his national championships as Florida’s offensive coordinator, said Tim Tebow’s name 10 times and even acknowledged the most important quality of a Gators coach. 
“What (do) you do if you’re a 
Florida Gator and you’re going to start coaching? You start wearing the visor,” Mullen said in a room of hoity-toity swampy supporters. While I was hesitant at ﬁ  rst, I completely be-lieve in him now. Consider me a full-blown Mullenial.
-       Matt Brannon Dan Mullen will be a miserable 
failure because…
Mullen may have razzle dazzled 
Matt into jumping onto his bandwag-
on, but I’m not convinced.
Not by a long shot.
Yes, the 45-year-old coach had 
success with the Gators while serv-ing as their offensive coordinator in 
the mid-2000s. But how did he fare 
in Starkville, Mississippi? Some of the numbers are downright ugly.
Mullen went 2-16 against teams 
ranked in the AP Poll over his nine-year tenure with the Bulldogs, the worst record of any coach in NCAA history. He also has a meager .458 winning percentage in the SEC and 
is a combined 5-22 against Alabama, 
Auburn and LSU.Granted, he was coaching a Mis-
sissippi State program that lacks the level of resources Florida has, but that track record is far from promising.
I don’t care what fans say. Mullen 
won’t amount to much in his second 
stint in Gainesville.
Miserable failure might be an un-
derstatement.
-       Dylan Dixon
 
Now, onto our competitors!
In ﬁ  rst, at 66-37, is 247Sports’ 
Thomas “Arachnid midwife” 
Goldkamp, who — in an attempt to kill a pregnant spider — unleashed hundreds of its babies onto his liv-ing room sofa. Rumor has it, Thomas wet himself and ﬂ  ed his apartment screaming for help. Grow a pair, Goldy. You really, really need to.
In second place, at 60-43, is Gator 
Country’s Nick “Salty UCF alum-
nus” de la Torre, who is still fuming over Florida’s hire of Mullen. Nick 
wanted UF to hire Frost, so much so 
that he’s protesting by dying his hair with frosted tips.
In third, at 56-47, is the Orlando 
Sentinel’s Edgar “Get off my lawn” 
Thompson, who is leading a peti-tion to get Twitter to switch back to a 140-character limit. Sorry Edgar, your 
opinions are outdated, just like the 
idea that you can change anything in 2017 with a petition.
In fourth, at 54-49, is the Alliga-
tor’s Ian “Obsessed with Henry 
VIII” Cohen, who was so inspired by the English king’s lack of commit-ment (six marriages) that he stopped showing up for work all together in 
an effort to “party and be free like it’s 
1533.”
Up next, at 53-50 is the Gainesville 
Sun’s Graham “Amateur hour” 
Hall, who was widely taunted after his dilapidated tripod tipped over dur-ing Mullen’s introductory news con-ference. It’s unclear if Graham will ever overcome the embarrassment of such a terrible ﬁ  rst impression and his tripod’s fall from grace that was worse than Jim McElwain’s.
In sixth place, at 52-51, is the 
Alligator’s Ethan “Party pooper” Bauer, who popped the optimism balloon of Gator fans who are ex-cited about coach Mike White of the UF men’s basketball team. As fans praised White, Ethan was rightfully raked over the coals for mentioning 
White will leave for a real coaching 
job soon.
In a tie for seventh, at 47-56, is 
the Alligator’s Dylan “Straight outta 
Swampton” Dixon, who is leaving behind journalism to start a rap ca-reer under the nickname D-Illin’. Be sure to avoid his ﬁ  rst single “Eyes on the prize like Kadeem Telfort on 
Chester’s Hot Fries.”
Tied with Dylan, at 47-56, is the 
Alligator’s Matt “Oh s---, what time 
is it” Brannon, who slept through 
the ﬁ  nal exam of his sports informa-tion management class on Thursday. When he ﬁ  nally woke up, he called a colleague in tears, sputtering over the fact “he wasn’t gonna graduate next semester.” Look at the bright side man, you can come back in Fall 2018 and avenge your horrendous picks 
column record. Everything happens 
for a reason.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
VS.PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Sept. 1, 2018
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Redshirt junior guard Funda Na-
kkasoglu drove to the paint from the right side of the three-point line. She beat her defender, cut inside the in-coming forward and raised up for a 
layup attempt without opposition.
The ball left her ﬁ  ngers, weakly 
bounced off the lowest part of the 
backboard and tipped off her hand out of bounds.
In her ﬁ  rst game back from an 
ankle injury suffered on Nov. 21, Nakkasoglu wasn’t playing like her usual self. Coach Cameron Newbau-
er said she hadn’t been practicing 
much leading up to Florida’s 69-59 win against the Dolphins. He also said her ankle wasn’t 100 percent during the game.
“(She) kind of favored that a little 
bit here and there,” Newbauer said. “It isn’t her best, but we’ll take it.”
Nakkasoglu had arguably her 
worst night as a Gator against Jack-sonville. She ﬁ  nished the game just 2-of-11 from the ﬁ  eld, shooting well below her season average of 54.5 percent. After leading the team with 17 points per game before her injury, Nakkasoglu ended up with six on Tuesday night.
Nakkasoglu also had six turn-
overs against the Dolphins after giv-ing the ball away nine times through her ﬁ  rst four games. 
Newbauer said even with Nakka-
soglu hampered by her ankle, she’s a valuable asset for the Gators offense.
“Just the fact that she was out 
there I think took some defensive awareness to her and also helped 
our other players to get shots,” New-
bauer said.
He said he appreciated her tough-
ness and aggressiveness during the game. 
Those traits will be put to the 
test Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Big 12-SEC Challenge. The Gators will play against an Oklahoma team looking to 
bounce back from two consecutive 
losses against Oregon and Little Rock in which the Sooners were outscored by a combined 30 points.
Senior Vionise Pierre-Louis leads 
Oklahoma’s scoring attack. Her team-high 18 points per game on 68.4 percent shooting is a testament to the Sooners’ approach of feeding the 6-foot-4 center in the paint.
Pierre-Louis is joined by fellow se-
nior Gabbi Ortiz. Ortiz, a guard from Racine, Wisconsin, leads the Big 12 in minutes played and is shooting 41.7 percent from beyond the arc. 
Whether or not Nakkasoglu is 
100 percent on Sunday, Newbauer said he’s been preaching a “next man up” mentality to account for 
her injury. With sophomore forward 
Sydney Morang, a key bench piece for Newbauer, out for the year with concussion-like symptoms, he said his players will be ready to play un-familiar positions.
“That’s the versatility that we’re 
trying to build with this group,” Newbauer said. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
Nakkasoglu recovering  as Gators prepare for Oklahoma
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Florida’s transfer guard, Funda Nakkasoglu (3), is still bothered 
by an ankle injury she suffered on Nov. 21.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2017
Monday, when Florida got too tired 
at the end of the game and couldn’t 
hold on to take the win, losing by 
three.
That lack of depth will carry over 
to next season, when those reliable components will be gone. At the end of the 2017-18 campaign, Chris 
Chiozza, John Egbunu and Egor 
Koulechov will have no more eligi-bility left. And who knows if KeV-
aughn Allen or Jalen Hudson will 
try their luck in the NBA Draft.
That’s ﬁ  ve players who could po-
tentially be departing next season, meaning Florida’s ﬁ  ve scholarship freshmen — Mike Okauru, Chase 
Johnson, Dontay Bassett, Deaun-
drae Ballard and Isaiah Stokes — will need to take on a larger role 
next season.
Wouldn’t it make sense to get 
them some experience this season?I don’t expect White to start 
them or make them the ﬁ  rst to come 
off the bench, but he’s had multiple opportunities to give his freshmen 
some much-needed experience in 
close games, to throw them into the ﬁ  re and see if they succeed.
For example, take a look at the 
Phil Knight Invitational, which took place last week. Against Stanford, 
the Gators had a more balanced dis-
tribution of playing time, with Oka-uru and Ballard compiling 20 min-utes and 19 minutes, respectively. 
The lineup at the end of the game 
even featured Okauru, Ballard, Johnson and Florida’s two walk-
ons, showing that White has no 
problem playing his underclassmen when the Gators have the game in 
hand.
Then take a look at the Gonzaga 
game the following night, when Okauru saw 10 minutes of playing 
time and Ballard just seven. They were the only two freshmen to get on the court. And against Duke two 
nights later, they played even less. 
Those were valuable games that 
should’ve been used to develop the ﬁ  rst-year players.
If their reduced minutes are due 
to a lack of trust, then White needs to give them a chance to earn that 
trust on the court. 
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator’s 
online sports editor. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14Coach Mike White doesn't have enough faith in his freshmenbecome the top-ﬁ  ve defense it was 
last year, a unit that allowed just 66.5 points per game.
White and players not paying 
attention to UF news, polls
With the hiring of Dan Mullen as 
the new Florida football coach, White was asked if he is happy that the news is helping the basketball team keep a 
low proﬁ  le.
It doesn’t seem like he even no-
ticed.
“I wouldn’t know because I prom-
ise you I don’t read it,” White said. “I don’t listen to it. I’m oblivious to any 
of it.”
That mindset appears to be the 
same for the players. After rising to 
No. 6 in the AP poll, Hudson restated 
White’s philosophy.
“Yeah, it sounds nice, honestly,” 
Hudson said. “But every night, you 
have to show up no matter who you’re playing.”
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 14Gators move up to No. 6 in latest AP poll
lead to start, but it was the last time Florida trailed in a set throughout the match.
Snyder and senior Rha-
mat Alhassan took over ear-ly and led UF on a 9-1 run to ﬁ  nish the set, putting the Gators up 2-0.
UF completed its sweep 
of the Hornets after scoring the ﬁ  nal six points of the match. In one of the team’s most lopsided victories of the season, Wise gave re-serves Lindsey Rogers, Mia Sokolowski and Taelor Kellum signiﬁ  cant playing time.
Alhassan said it was nice 
to see Kellum, a fellow mid-dle-blocker, perform well on the court.
Sokolowski, a redshirt 
freshman, and Rogers, a senior, accounted for all three set-winning points. Sophomore Morgyn Greer also spent a lot of time on the court, ﬁ  nishing with six kills. Greer has seen her playing time increase over the season and is coming off a season-high nine-kill match in UF's regular-sea-son ﬁ  nale at Missouri.
The Gators don't have 
much time to rest, as they host Miami tonight at 7. The team is trying to stay focused on the Hurricanes, despite knowing it’s one step closer to an NCAA title.
“We want to go to the Fi-
nal Four. We want to win a national championship,” Al-hassan said. “But, in order to do that, we have to take the small steps.”
Wise has fewer than 24 
hours to prepare Florida for a Miami team coming off a win Thursday over the Col-lege of Charleston.
“We expect tomorrow to 
be another one of those re-ally, really hard battles in a 
VOLLEY,  from pg. 14UF on to Round of 32
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Jalen Hudson said the team's No. 6 ranking sounds nice, but he doesn't take much stock in it. "Every night, you have to show up. "
