We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 166 THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
Zaire excited for new start at UF
Former Notre Dame QB Malik Zaire trans-
ferred to Florida this summer and is ready to compete for the Gators, pg. 14
Former UF quarterback dies at 67
He played under head coach Steve Spurrier, pg. 4
UF students bond over meme page
The “swampy” memes have attracted more than 16,000, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
THE MEETING HAS 
BEEN RESCHEDULED 
TO AUG. 23.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Hours before a meeting at the 
Gainesville City Hall on upcom-
ing renovations to the Institute of 
Black Culture and the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures, UF sent a letter. 
“We will not have representa-
tives at the Aug. 1 event,” wrote UF Vice President for university relations Jane Adams to the city, citing negotiations between stu-dents and administrators already in place. 
The Intervention Town Hall 
event scheduled for 3 p.m. Tues-
day was then immediately can-
celed and postponed to Aug. 23, said District 1 City Commissioner Charles Goston. 
Goston said he proposed and 
sponsored the event to bring stu-dents, UF administrators and city commissioners together for an open conversation on the two-
house design for IBC and the In-
stitute of Hispanic-Latino Affairs, or La Casita, that UF’s Multicul-tural and Diversity Affairs an-
nounced July 18.
Before MCDA said it would 
abandon their conjoined “U”-shaped design and pursue a plan 
for two separate houses, UF stu-dents and faculty had been going 
back and forth for months.
Goston said he felt Tuesday’s 
City Hall meeting could’ve been 
an opportunity to better the re-
lationship between the students 
and administrators and move for-ward.
“It’s disappointing,” Goston 
said. “I guess they felt like they 
would be attacked if they came to 
the event.”
UF administrators have been 
reinvited to the new “Interven-
tion” on Aug. 23, Goston said. As 
of press time, it is unclear wheth-er the university will send repre-sentatives.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said the university will continue 
working with students on the two 
houses project, but not necessar-ily in the format Goston has pro-posed, which involves local gov-
ernment.
“We have not formally de-
clined but our intention is to 
engage on this topic on our cam-pus,” wrote Sikes in an email.
For Daniel Clayton, he feels 
it’s a shame that UF is looking at the event purely from a public re-lations standpoint. 
Clayton said he and his fel-
low student organizers involved with “No La IBCita” — a coali-tion of students dedicated to hav-ing students’ voices heard in the renovations process — now want 
the process to involve the entire 
Gainesville community, not just UF students and administrators. 
The 22-year-old UF electrical 
engineering senior said he also sees the open-dialogue format of the “intervention” event as a way to keep all parties accountable.
“It’s an opportunity for all par-
ties to come together and say, ‘Look, there’s been a lot of drama — let’s ﬁ  nd a way to move for-ward,’” he said. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
UF refused to send representatives to MCDA ‘Intervention’By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
In a Twitter video released 
Wednesday afternoon, UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs — decked out in Gator-themed gym clothes and a protective head piece — stood next to professional wrestler and UF alumnus Thaddeus Michael Bullard, better known to wres-tling fans as Titus O’Neil.
“I’m very excited about get-
ting ready to kick our president’s a--” O’Neil said. 
At New Student Convocation 
on Aug. 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the O’Connell Center, a special video featuring O’Neil and Fuchs will be shown as a fun way to intro-
duce new students to the univer-
sity, UF spokesperson Steve Or-
lando said. 
“We’re getting ready to do 
something very adventurous be-cause he loves the University of Florida so much,” O’Neil said in the video, with Fuchs smiling next to him.
Orlando said the video will 
then be distributed around more broadly to help kick off the new school year. 
What will actually be happen-
ing in the video is unknown, Or-lando said. “It’ll be a nice surprise,” he 
said. 
Before his career in profes-
sional wrestling and years in the Arena Football League, O’Neil 
was a Gator. From 1997 to 2000, 
O’Neil played for the Florida Gators football team under coach 
Steve Spurrier, and in 2000 he 
served as Student Government 
vice president. 
Orlando said O’Neil is making 
his appearance with Fuchs pro bono.
Fuchs wrote in an email that 
he’s grateful and excited to be 
making this video with O’Neil.
“Titus (Thaddeus) is a pretty 
special Gator, willing to give his 
time to numerous good causes 
and to his alma mater when asked,” Fuchs said.
The promotional video was 
initially released on O’Neil’s 
Twitter page, which about 
571,000 people follow.
“As you notice he is very 
dapper in his wrestling outfit,” O’Neil said, complimenting the president. 
“Arms are out,” he said while 
lifting Fuchs left arm. 
Fuchs flexed his arm in re-
sponse. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Fuchs and pro wrestler to face oﬀ   in Convocation video
The content of the video will be ‘a nice surprise,’ UF oicial said
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pro wrestler and UF alumnus Thaddeaus Michael Bullard, also known as “Titus O’Neil, ” will star in a video with UF President Kent Fuchs for 2017’s Convocation video. 
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
The Irie Ones
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department will host its an-nual series of free concerts in downtown Gainesville on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza. 
Featuring local and regional musicians, the 2017 “Free Fridays” concert series plays every Friday night from 8 p.m. 
to 10 p.m. through Oct. 20. 
This Friday features the reggae band The Irie Ones. For more information, visit gnvcultur-
alseries.org/free-fridays-con-
cert-series.Guided tour of Kanapaha 
Botanical GardensKanapaha offers a guided tour 
of the Botanical Gardens the 
first Saturday of every month, starting at 10 a.m. The price for non-members is the same as regular admission, $8 for 
adults and $4 for children, and 
members are admitted for free. For more information, visit kanapaha.org.
Weekly Bible study on deliver-
ance through discipleship
Elnathan of Haven of Hope, located at 321 SE 48th St., will sponsor a weekly Bible study. This study will focus on deliv-erance through discipleship. For more information call 352-377-8669, text 352-213-2147 or 
email hutchinsonjoanna12@
gmail.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 166THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
Your hard work. Your dedication. Your vision.  
You’re what makes the Gator Nation great.  
As we celebrate how far you’ve come,  
we look forward to seeing the many ways  
you’ll spread the #GatorGood wherever you go.  
Because there is no such thing  
as a former Gator.
Together, we are unstoppable.
congratulations.congratulations.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
UF football great John Reaves passed 
away in his Tampa home Tuesday at 67 
years old. 
Reaves is well known in the UF ath-
letics world as the quarterback who led 
the football team to one of its greatest 
seasons of all-time with a 9-1-1 record. He was the leader of what was known as the “Super Sophs,” a group of top sophomore players on the 1969 Gators team, which included Carlos Alvarez and Tommy Durrance. 
In his senior year, Reaves was 
named an All-American quarterback, 
and by the end of his career held the 
all-time record for NCAA passes, with 7,581 made in his college career as well as the record for most touchdown pass-es in the SEC.
After playing football at UF for three 
years, Reaves went on to be picked by the Philadelphia Eagles in the ﬁ  rst round of the 1972 draft. He continued 
to play in the NFL for a total of nine 
years, during which he played for ﬁ  ve different teams.
When his time in the NFL ended, 
Reaves went on to play for the Tampa Bay Bandits under then-head coach Steve Spurrier from 1983-1985. Spur-rier told the AAC in a press release he was saddened to hear of Reaves’ pass-ing and looked fondly upon him when he was on the team.
“He was a wonderful player to coach 
and a super teammate,” Spurrier said. “He was as good a pure, drop-back passer as I’ve ever coached.” 
Later, in 1990, Reaves returned to 
UF as a football coach under the newly hired Spurrier. There he worked as an assistant coach until 1992 and then again in 1994, eventually leaving for 
good after being offered a job at the 
University of South Carolina.
“It’s sad to see that John has passed 
on, but we’ll celebrate his life down there in Tampa with so many good friends and Gators,” Spurrier said. “His memory will always be with us.”
According to Tampa Police Depart-
ment Public Information Ofﬁ  cer Eddy 
Durkin, Reaves was discovered by a 
family member lying on his bed unre-sponsive. The police received the report at 2:30 p.m. Tuesday and determined there was no evidence of foul play. 
“As a matter of routine, the Medical 
Examiner will conduct an investigation to determine the cause of death as the decedent was not under the direct care 
of a physician,” Durkin said. 
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgFormer UF quarterback 
John Reaves dead at 67
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Hawthorne Middle/High School, located at 
21403 SE 69th Ave., has been a “D” school for 
several years. 
As a result, the school faces the possibil-
ity of closing if it can’t reach a “C” rating by August.
The legislation that put the school in this 
position is HB 7069, which took effect July 1 
and will close any public school with a rating lower than a “C.”
“Unfortunately right now there aren’t a lot 
of good options we have based on the require-ments that the state has put before us,” said 
Jackie Johnson, a spokesperson for Alachua 
County Public Schools.
For Hawthorne Middle/High School, there 
are only three options: completely close the school, turn it into a charter school or give it 
to an independent contractor. 
If the school were to close down, Johnson 
said it would affect about 300 students. 
“In all three of the options, you can’t say 
for sure how many students would be going and how many students would be staying,” she said. 
In an attempt to save the school, adminis-
trators have put several initiatives into play 
for the coming school year.
“What we’re working on are plans to im-
prove student achievement at school, no mat-
ter what comes for 2018 and 2019,” she said. “That includes, we’ve got a new principal there and a crop of teachers that have proven track records of raising student achievement.”
She said another major change is the 
school will have a full-time attendance ofﬁ  -cer because unexcused absences are a major problem.
“We’ve got a number of strategies that 
we’ll be using to try to attack all of those prob-
lems, but that’s harder because it doesn’t mat-
ter how wonderful your academic programs are or your extracurricular programs are if the kids aren’t in school to take advantage of them,” Johnson said.  
Hawthorne mayor Matt Surrency has 
grown up and raised his family in the city. He 
said the school closing would be a major loss 
for the community.
“It’s anxious in a way, not knowing what 
the future holds for the school,” Surrency 
said. “But at the same time, it gives me some comfort that it’s in our hands in terms of de-
termining the future of the school.”
Surrency said a big thing for people to keep 
in mind is to “not get too wrapped up in it.”
“Just do stuff as normal, but also be a little 
more focused on your education,” he said. “As for parents with their kids, take ﬁ  ve more minutes to go over the homework, take ﬁ  ve more minutes to read a book every day.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgHawthorne Middle/High School 
to potentially close its doorsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Morgan McMullen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students can ﬁ  nd themselves 
falling into several different niches 
once they arrive in Gainesville. Intra-mural sports teams, Greek life and different clubs on campus can divert 
students’ attention from school or 
other social and professional obliga-tions. 
There is one other way students 
can be sidetracked. It comes in the form of an online community dedi-cated to the creation of UF-based memes. 
The Facebook page is called 
“Swampy UF memes for top ten pub-lic teens.” It takes a satirical look at physical features of UF’s campus as well as the political and social issues that surround the university. 
Rebecca Ragan, a 19-year-old UF 
music and chemistry sophomore, began the group March 21. Though the group is only months old, it has 
already accumulated more than 
16,000 followers.
“One of my high school class-
mates started ‘Yale Memes for Spe-cial Snowﬂ  ake Teens,’ and I thought of how people always refer to UF as a public ivy,” Ragan said. “I noticed most of the Ivy League and upper-tier universities had meme pages, so 
I thought it would be ﬁ  tting for UF to 
have one as well.”
The group’s memes range from the innocence of SpongeBob Squarepants to the raunchiness of out-of-context porn screenshots to national political discourse. The $2 million allocated for the Reitz Union railings, UF President Kent Fuchs’ pool and Student Body President 
Smith Meyers’ arrest in Key West 
have all garnered a fair amount of at-tention on the page. 
“The reception has always been 
overwhelmingly positive,” Ragan said. “I know that there are people who don’t enjoy the group, and that’s totally ﬁ  ne.” 
Kelena Klippel, who graduated 
from UF last Spring with a B.A. in English, is one of the 14 moderators of the group and has the responsibil-ity of either approving or rejecting memes submitted to the page. 
“I’d say at least 10 or 15 on a slow 
day,” the 22-year-old said when asked how many memes the mod-erators review on a daily basis. “It 
varies.”
Klippel said her favorite meme on 
the page was a video parodying the 
opening to the show “The Ofﬁ  ce.” 
“I love the memes that obviously 
show originality and time put into them,” she said. 
Klippel became somewhat of a 
celebrity since her time in the group 
began the day of its inception.
“At ﬁ  rst, it was purely comedic,” 
Klippel said regarding her relative 
internet fame. “But after borderline creepy memes being made about me, it started getting strange, yes. Despite that, this whole status is so surreal to me. I love making people laugh and being recognized for it makes me happy.” 
Contrary to Klippel, Ragan seems 
to keep a lower proﬁ  le on the page she created. 
“I haven’t been at UF since Spring 
semester ended at the end of April, so it’s more due to me not being sur-rounded by the culture of UF all the time,” Ragan said.
Despite her time off from the 
page, Ragan said she hopes to be 
more active within the group once 
Fall classes begin. 
The memes approved by modera-
tors tend to have a bias against the current Student Government and against Smith Meyers in particular. However, Ragan said she believes the photos mocking campus orga-nizations and individuals are all in 
good jest. 
Klippel said with the group of in-
coming freshmen, the direction that 
the page will take is up in the air. 
“I deﬁ  nitely think we’d get a taste 
of another perspective that most of us have already forgotten, being in an unfamiliar place and all,” Klippel said. “We already have some Pre-
view freshmen who have posted in 
the group, which is great.” 
As for incoming freshmen and 
those yet to join the group, Klippel had some advice. 
“Keep things original,” Klippel 
said. “Don’t follow what other meme groups are doing. For example, the Gator hats on pop culture references got kind of dry after a while.” 
Ragan said she has equally opti-
mistic views about the future of the page. 
“UF has such a large and diverse 
Student Body,” she said. “I’m also expecting there will be a good vari-ety coming from the freshman ex-perience … I just hope the new stu-dents will enjoy the group.”
‘Swampy’ UF memes attract more than 16,000 students, alumni
Courtesy to the Alligator
One example of the hundreds of “swampy” memes posted on the 
Facebook page. This particular post was made by Samantha Kirby.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORRemember what 
you’re here for
Well, dear reader, the time has come for us to trade 
in our novelty pool floats for desk chairs in lecture halls and our beachside loaded Coronas for triple-
shot lattes from the Marston Science Library Star-
bucks. In other words, it’s time for us all to return 
to reality.
A lot of us were fortunate enough to spend our Summer 
doing things like traveling across Europe, interning in exciting cities or relaxing at the beach with our best friends. Others remained in Gainesville, hitting the books. And some of us spent our Summers at home, enjoying much-needed family time. Wherever you were this Summer and whatever you did, 
it’s important for all of us to make sure that we check back 
into reality when we get back to Gainesville.
It’s easy for us to get caught up in the new — probably more 
relaxed — routines we cultivated over the past few months. 
Coming back to school is oftentimes a shock for some of us, 
especially for freshmen returning for their sophomore year.
Fall semester is hard. There is no getting around that. There 
are football games, parties, Greek recruitment, club meetings and the overall rigor of classes. For most of us, this is the most 
difficult semester and the busiest by far. 
Of course, we are all excited to come back to school. No 
matter the stress we may face come late August, nothing can 
trump the immense joy we feel being reunited with our best 
friends and with our freedom.
We realize college is much more than just taking classes 
and getting an education. It’s about making memories and be-
ing somewhat careless while you still can. It’s about Midnight Cookies orders with your roommates in the middle of the night 
and hungover brunches at Flying Biscuit Cafe after a question-
able night at Midtown. It’s about friendships made and lessons learned outside the classroom. It’s about more than just exams and papers.
We realize this, and we know you probably do, too. How-
ever, it’s important that you don’t get too caught up in this ide-ology. This idea of making the most of your college experience has gone a little too far. A lot of students take it too seriously and begin to neglect their schoolwork — the main reason they 
live in Gainesville.
You’ve seen it before, I’m sure. That straight-A student you 
knew in high school that you only now see wasted at The 
Rowdy Reptile. You’ve seen friends, who had brilliant futures 
and astute intelligence, fall through the cracks. We urge you 
to not be one of them.
Enjoy yourself, of course, but not at the cost of your future. 
Before you know it, you become that kid who graduated six years ago and still can’t seem to get his or her life together. 
Have fun. Don’t be afraid to make a decision you know is 
the wrong one. Don’t feel guilty for staying out late. Let your-self live. Just don’t ruin your future. 
You’ve worked too hard to get here, and you owe it to 
yourself to keep it together. Dear reader, we want you to enjoy your time in college, but we also want you to find success af-terward. Keep in mind as you return to school this Fall, you’re doing just that. Returning to school.
In our current era, there are many who 
emphasize the mantra “work hard, play 
hard.” An idea that has now become so popular that it has produced multiple 
renditions, has become a meme, has its 
own song, has books with the same idea and has people talking about the concept day in 
and day out. The discussion even sparks a 
conversation from more serious people that 
working too hard and focusing too much on the “grind” is not a healthy habit for success.
To most people, this phrase or idea circulates around 
money — and while that may seem like a staunchly ob-
vious truism, I do not think it is that true. Why must 
we work so hard to play so hard? What is to be gained 
in the hard work that is received in the hard play? Is it 
really money that we desire so much?
Well, no. What a lot of people forget about money is 
that it is not the only currency we deal with every day. Many people think about the phrase because it seems 
to pertain to us as it, in our current existence, is what 
puts things into motion. However, there is another cur-
rency that we commonly forget, and it is unbelievably 
more powerful than money: time.
Money — at any point in your life from the womb 
to wilt — you can gain. At any point in your life, you 
are always losing time, and you can never get it back. 
Again, another truism, but when time is placed in per-
spective, we truly begin to see how important it is.
How often do you think about time when you buy 
or pay for something? I mean, you are probably think-ing about it but as a side thought, right? When you pay 
rent, you are paying rent to secure shelter; that shelter, 
however, protects you from the elements and extends 
your time on earth. When you go out to eat at a restau-
rant, you are probably eating out to satisfy your desires of hunger or maybe treat yourself and an-other. Consequently, the price of that meal is 
determined by the time you’ve spent.
Yes, things may have certain market pric-
es we obey to be fair, but time is powerful enough to change that. The meal could cost 
$20, and you would generally tip 20 percent, 
totaling a $24 meal. But what happens if the 
food comes out late? What if you know your 
server did not put the order in for the meal 
on time. Would you tip less? What if the food was so 
late that you did not want to pay for the meal anymore, 
and the restaurant compensated you for your loss? 
What if your server was so amazing that you decided 
to spend $30 because you thought a 50 percent tip was 
appropriate?
It’s crazy that time can literally change how much 
we spend our precious dollars, but its power does not end there. Many desire to “work hard” so they can 
spend their future time enjoying themselves, relaxing 
and “playing hard.” Some come to college, knowing 
they will be in massive debt, just to enjoy the time they 
will never be able to experience again. Some pass away 
with the regret that they did not spend their time in one 
way or another.
So you’re ultimately stressed out that you won’t 
have enough money for something or you have oth-
er menial problems that will become valueless in the 
grand scheme of things. Don’t waste your time on these 
thoughts. Make sure you optimize your time. Spend it wisely, and spend all of it doing something you love. 
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His 
column appears on Thursdays. Spend your time very wisely, dear readers
James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Last minute Summer ideas
What you can do with the end of Summer B, pg. 9The best music of the summer 
Here are the songs and albums that dominated, pg. 8THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Melty is gone. 
The stray cat that was hanging 
around Flow Space, the yoga stu-
dio located at 117 NW 16th Ave., 
disappeared a few weeks ago, but the owners of the studio aren’t that concerned. 
Even though they fed him for 
the last four weeks, they accepted him as a wandering soul. 
“We weren’t sad about it be-
cause we like the idea of him just 
following his beat, going wher-
ever he wants to go,” said Maggie Rucker, the instructor and man-ager at Flow Space.
Melty made his ﬁ  rst appear-
ance before the studio’s ﬁ  rst sold-out kitten yoga event July 9, but he left soon after. Rucker said she thinks he might come back for the 
event this Sunday. 
The Sunday event, which starts 
at 2 p.m., will again beneﬁ  t the 
Alachua County Humane Society. 
All 45 tickets have been sold. 
The ﬁ  rst event raised more than 
$600 for the shelter, including tick-
et sales and donations. The second event has already surpassed that 
amount from ticket sales alone be-
cause of a slight price increase.
“We charged an extra $5 this 
time just (because) we thought it 
would be nice to get the Alachua County Humane a little more rev-
enue than we were able to give them last time, so we bumped it 
up a little bit more,” she said. 
Three of the 19 kittens that the 
shelter brought to the event were 
adopted, said Margot DeConna, the director of development for 
the Alachua County Humane So-
ciety. 
DeConna said she was not ex-
pecting the event to raise as much 
money as it did. 
She said the outpouring of in-
terest online was a shock.“The reaction to the event was 
also more than I was expecting. It 
was hugely popular,” she said. 
Rucker, however, said she 
wasn’t shocked by the excitement 
around the event. She said any 
event involving a “well-founded” organization like the humane soci-ety draws people’s attention. Put-ting on a trending event like kitten yoga doesn’t hurt either, she said. 
“You see how successful cer-
tain kinds of yoga are already, and you just bring it in, and you ﬁ  nd the right ﬁ  t, and it will blow up, no matter what,” she said. 
Rucker wanted people to per-
form gentle poses, low to the ground, allowing them to better interact with the kittens. But her style of yoga instruction, especial-
ly with themed yoga, also gives 
people the freedom to do what they want. This meant that many people were playing with the kit-tens and having fun.  
She said people were so en-
ergized by the event that not ev-eryone chose to do the ﬁ  nal pose, shavasana — where people lie ﬂ  at on their backs to “sort of to let all the dust settle inside of you so that 
your energy levels even out.”
Some people performed this 
last pose, and others instead de-
cided to play with cat toys.
Having another event so close 
to the last one helps the humane society during the busy, warmer months when more kittens are born and brought to the shelter, 
DeConna said.
Currently there are 150 kittens 
in foster homes and about 60 kit-
tens at the humane society. She said understanding just what kit-
ten season means is really only 
possible after visiting the shelter and seeing just how many kittens are there.
Because the kittens who at-
tended the ﬁ  rst event have since been adopted, a new group will be at the event. 
“We want to ﬁ  nd them loving 
homes so we’re striking while the iron is hot,” DeConna said. 
DeConna said from her perspec-
tive the ﬁ  rst event was a success. 
She said it is a “win-win” because 
it raises money for the shelter and helps get kittens adopted.
“It accomplishes all of our goals 
in a really fun setting that allows 
the public to interact in a way that 
they don’t normally get to do with our adoptable pets,” she said.   Second kitten yoga event raises more money than the ﬁ  rst 
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
Flow Space, a yoga studio in Gainesville, will be hosting another kitten yoga event after their 
ﬁ  rst one, held in July, went incredibly well. 
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
If you weren’t alive when Diana Spen-
cer, Princess of Wales, made her iconic 
mark on the world, a new HBO documen-tary will make you wish you were. It will 
also make you weep the way so many did the weeks following her tragic pass-
ing. The film, which commemorates the 20th year since her premature death, is 
called “Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and 
Legacy.” 
Prince William and Prince Harry — you 
know, second and fifth in line to the Brit-
ish throne — along with William’s wife 
Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, 
started Heads Together, an initiative that 
joins eight charities to destigmatize what they believe is the center of many issues 
of concern: mental health. 
In a video posted in April, the trio sat 
on a picnic table in a picturesque Kens-ington Palace garden speaking about why they felt mental health was a common 
thread between the areas the three roy-
als were working in, including homeless-
ness, military, addiction and, of course, bereavement. 
“Harry and I, over the years, have not 
talked enough about our mother,” Wil-liam said in the video. 
Harry agreed, “No, never enough.”Harry in particular has admitted to 
locking away his feelings, with therapy being essential to releasing his pent-up 
grief. 
This YouTube video, and the events 
that followed — including their char-ity being represented by 700 runners in 
the 2017 London Marathon — served as 
a preface to the honest documentary that 
was unknowingly and eagerly awaited for 
20 years. 
William and Harry were only 15 and 12  20 years later, Princess Diana remembered in documentary
Photo via Elle Decor
“Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and Legacy” was released on July 24 to positive 
reviews.
SEE DIANA,  PAGE 10By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
With summer nearing its end, 
it’s important to reﬂ  ect on ev-
erything it has brought us as we 
prepare for fall — especially the 
music. Out of the countless new releases from music’s newcom-ers and veterans alike, audiences 
plugged their headphones into 
great tunes this season. Here are the reigning champions of summer music.
“Dua Lipa” by Dua Lipa
Although her album, released 
June 2, was an early entry into the top summer music contest, Dua 
Lipa is rewriting the rules of pop 
and making a name for herself in the global music scene. 
After gaining recognition with 
the album’s ﬁ  rst single, “Lost in Your Light,” featuring rhythm and blues singer Miguel, her entire al-bum shows a full brevity in Lipa’s ability as an artist. 
“New Rules” is for every per-
son going through the challenge of moving on from an ex — and ac-knowledging that it’s never a per-
fect process. Her vocal range in the 
track allows the song to adopt not only a pop sound but also brings in hip-hop and R&B inﬂ  uences. 
The best part about Lipa’s mu-sic is that it’s a breath of fresh air for pop fans because she’s releas-ing tracks that break the pop mold 
and that listeners will actually en-
joy, rather than focusing on put-ting out a track that will simply get on the charts. 
“Ctrl” by SZA
If you haven’t been humming 
along to the lyrics “You like nine to ﬁ  ve/I’m the weekend,” from the 
song “The Weekend,” you haven’t 
been plugging your headphones into what is arguably one of the best releases by a female artist this 
season. 
Following the releases of sev-
eral extended plays like “Z,” re-
leased in 2014, “Ctrl” is SZA’s debut album and has shaken up 
the R&B and hip-hop scenes. This 
summer has brought female artists to the foreground of both genres, not only for their artistic ability but 
for their originality as well. 
“Love Galore,” featuring rising 
rap artist Travis Scott, has a clean 
beat that doesn’t drown out SZA’s great vocals and is the perfect song 
to turn up the volume to, despite 
Scott’s verses being slightly over-produced. Most of SZA’s songs add a twist to the typical narrative of 
heartache and strained relation-
ships that keep listeners interested while remaining relatable. Overall, SZA is a force to be 
reckoned with in the hip-hop are-na.
“Evolve” by Imagine Dragons
Even though it seems like alter-
native rock band Imagine Dragons can’t replicate the success of their 
debut album, “Night Visions,” 
their new album is promising. 
“Evolve,” which was released 
June 23, features singles “Believ-
er” and “Thunder” that have been 
weekslong residents on the charts. Although “Believer” and “Thun-der” eerily resemble the most pop-ular singles from their ﬁ  rst album 
— “Radioactive” and “It’s Time,” 
respectively — it does seem like the band is slowly evolving (pun intended).
“Walking The Wire” and “Rise 
Up” are uplifting anthems that have become synonymous with Imagine Dragons for the inspira-tional lyrics, heavy percussion and 
raspy, echoed vocals.
For fans of rock that can’t 
help rolling their eyes when their 
friends turn up “Despacito” for the 
umpteenth time, this album came 
at the perfect time. I am a believer that this is one of the best albums of the summer. 
“Slide” by Calvin Harris
I want to preface this by saying I know that “Slide” was released 
in February, but the track set the 
tone for both Harris’ album “Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1” and summer music altogether. 
Listeners are able to forget 
about the catchy yet irritating electronic dance music tracks that ruled the charts last summer. Har-ris was able to create and estab-
lish an audience for a new kind 
of EDM, one that blended psyche-delic beats and rhythms found in 
‘70s-era music. 
Featuring the soulful vocal styl-
ings of hip-hop artist Frank Ocean 
and smooth verses from rap trio Migos, “Slide” is a feel-good song 
for music fans to soak in the sun. 
Over all the tracks gracing radio stations — like DJ Khaled’s “Wild Thoughts” and “I’m the One” — 
this song wins song of the summer 
in my book. 
Photo via Wikipedia
“Slide” has risen to one of the most-played tracks of the year, 
with hundreds of millions of plays across streaming services. 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
Now accepting payments at Western Union locations including Publix, Walgreens and more.Avoid the crowd and take care 
of your service changes at 
gru.com/welcome.THIS IS
Visit wu.com or scan here 
for participating Western Union Agent locations, including: Publix, SunTrust, Walgreens, Winn Dixie
Bring your GRU account number with you to 
the agent location. 
Fill out the BLUE section of the 
Western Union form (or at Walgreens, follow the screens on the kiosk) and complete your 
transaction with the store clerk  
A receipt will be provided to confirm your 
transaction, use the MTCN number on your receipt to track your transaction
$1.50 Money Transfer fee applies Pay your GRU bill in cash at Western Union® 
Agent locations.
ONLINE | MOBILE | IN STORE
©2015 Western Union Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All other logos, trademarks, service marks and trade names 
referenced in this material are the property of their respective owners.
SZA, Calvin Harris release best music of the summer
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Yet another Summer B term 
has gone as quickly as it came, 
but there are still a few days left 
before the short break between semesters ensues. If you haven’t 
had the time to take advantage of 
the many different things our city has to offer, now is your chance. 
Although you have to be 21 or 
older to get a local beer at Swamp Head Brewery or First Magnitude 
Brewing Compnay, there are plen-
ty of other things available for the college student in need of cooling 
off. Here are a few things to check 
off your Gainesville bucket lists before the short Summer Break is 
upon us. 
Catch a free concert on Bo 
Diddley Plaza 
One of the greatest things about the renovated Bo Diddley 
Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., is the “Free 
Fridays” concert series. Held ev-
ery Friday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m., this concert series brings talented 
bands from around the state of 
Florida to downtown Gainesville — all for free. This Friday’s show 
will be The Irie Ones, Gaines-
ville’s longest running reggae band. 
Watch the sunset at Paynes 
Prairie Preserve State Park
Located just a short drive 
down U.S. Route 441, Paynes 
Prairie Preserve State Park is the 
perfect spot to catch the sunset in Gainesville. Even though the park 
ofﬁ  cially closes at 6 p.m., all you 
have to do is pull your car over on the side of U.S. Route 441 to 
get a good view. Plus, you may 
even get the chance to see alliga-tors, wild horses or other wildlife while you’re at it. 
Grab a local beer at 
Swamp Head Brewery or First Magnitude Brewing Company
Although there’s plenty of 
drinking to do in Gainesville, 
both Swamp Head Brewery, lo-
cated at 3650 SW 42nd Ave., and First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany, located at 1220 SE Veitch 
St., offer delicious local brews in environments that differ from the 
norm. With live music and food 
trucks on the weekends, both of these spots are good places to 
start your night before heading to 
Midtown or downtown. 
Float down Ginnie Springs 
If you haven’t taken a day-
trip to Ginnie Springs, located at 
7300 Ginnie Springs Road, High Springs, now is most deﬁ  nitely 
the time to do it. Only about 45 
minutes away from Gainesville, 
this extension of the Santa Fe River is the perfect place to ﬂ  oat 
with friends or dive in some of the 
deep natural springs that feature crystal-clear water. This is one of 
the most inherently Gainesville 
things to do throughout your college years, and it’s deﬁ  nitely 
worth catching before the hustle 
and bustle of Fall picks up.
Practice your yoga at Devil’s 
Millhopper Geological State Park
One of the newest activities 
to take place at Devil’s Millhop-
per Geological State Park, located 
at 4732 Millhopper Road, is a free, all-levels yoga class hosted 
by Flow Space. This event takes 
place on the ﬁ  rst Saturday of ev-ery month, with August’s class taking place this Saturday at 8 a.m. Attendees can practice their 
yoga skills and enjoy all of the 
sights the state park has to offer after the session. 
Catch a comedy show at 
Rockeys
Not only does Rockeys Duel-
ing Piano Bar, located at 112 S. 
Main St., offer live music, but it’s 
also a great place to catch comedy shows every Wednesday night. 
Each week features local comedi-
ans who open up for a nationally-touring comedian. The bar hosted 
the likes of Carlos Mencia, Pauly 
Shore and more throughout the past year and no doubt will be 
bringing more great headliners, 
in addition to local talent, in the future. Things to do in Gainesville before the end of Summer B 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
SEPT 1 – 24; PREVIEWS AUGUST 30 & 31
Congrats! You’ve made it to the end of Summer B!
Big Brother will be waiting for you this fall.
The H ipp and UF School of Theatre + Dance collaborate to bring George 
Orwell’s best-selling literary masterpiece to the stage in September. 
 BY GEORGE ORWELL, ADAPTED BY ANDREW WHITE
 DIRECTED BY LAUREN WARHOL CALDWELL
Book your student tickets at the HIPP BOX OFFICE
(352)375-4477 & thehipp.org
25 SE 2nd Pl, Downtown Gainesville
IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH
FREEDOM IS SLAVERY
IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH
WAR IS PEACE
IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH
1   
9
8
4
1   
1   
9
9
8
9
8
9
8
8
4
4
4
4
years old respectively when Di-
ana, 36 at the time, passed away 
in a car accident Aug. 31, 1997. 
The documentary opens to 
the pair looking over a family 
photo album. William shows 
Harry a photo of Diana holding 
the elder son while pregnant with the younger. 
“Believe it or not, you and I 
are both in this picture,” Wil-
liam said as Harry looked on.
Photos of the young boys 
with their mother — the boys dressed in matching outfits and 
looking unabashedly happy — 
flash on the screen as Harry’s 
voice fills the quiet: “This is the first time that the two of us have spoken about her as a mother.” 
The viewer is then taken 
back to the ‘60s and Diana’s 
childhood. Her brother, Charles 
Spencer, and longtime friends speak candidly about the wom-
an they knew, with photos and 
videos of her accompanying 
their anecdotes. They speak about a girl with infinite poten-
tial.
Then began her marriage 
to Charles, Prince of Wales, and a nervous feeling persists. 
Thoughts of alleged affairs 
Charles had with his now-wife 
Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, and rumored disagreements be-
tween Queen Elizabeth II and 
Diana hang heavy in the air. 
One wonders if they will ad-dress the darkness that hid be-hind the smiles captured by roy-al photographer Jayne Fincher. 
Curiously, William and Harry 
do not mention their father or grandmother throughout the 
documentary. 
After a moment, these feel-
ings have no choice but to stand second to the light shed 
on Diana’s work as an activist. 
Diana shaking the hand of an 
AIDS patient shook the world in 1991 and made strides to end 
the stigma as soon as the photo-
graph was printed. 
Following her divorce from 
Charles, she is removed from 
the royal family, but it is im-
pressive how she turns the 
world’s attention to her latest and last fight. Three weeks be-fore her deat, she was in Bos-nia, working to outlaw land 
mines throughout the world. 
The film shows Harry continu-ing this legacy in 2017.  
We almost forget this is a 
documentary about a person 
who has passed away. We root for her, her role as an activist 
and her responsibility as a di-
vorced parent. We hope her ca-
lamitous run-ins with the ever-malicious paparazzi end in a 
tennis racket to the face. 
Her sons, now men, cast 
a shadow of regret as they re-count their last phone conversa-
tion with their mother. 
As the voice of a reporter 
is heard in the distance, say-ing, “The Press Association 
announced with a newsflash at 4:41 that Diana, Princess of 
Wales, has died …” there is as 
little warning about her death as there is for the tears that come. 
Imagine a parent has died, 
and the public has made a liv-
ing in pursuing and publishing fabrications that surrounded 
the car accident in Paris on Au-
gust 31. The documentary is a 
simple piece that connects us with a woman we never knew 
by way of the children she left 
behind, wondering when some-
one will ever shake the world like she did again. Prince William and Prince Harry open up about their mom
DIANA,  from pg. 7BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT 
WHO ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●
Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share 
utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-
17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYLakefront Sacrifice -25 miles to Orlando
Was $159,880 being Sold-off for
only $69,880. Luxury community.
Priced to sell immediately.
Video: LakefrontCloseout.com
Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC
1-844- 803-8050       8-3-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. 
W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-3-17-1-2
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Promising
location?
6 Omegas, to an
electrician
10 Best Actor winner
for “Ray”
14 “The Big Bang
Theory” 
co-creator Chuck
15 Gusto
16 Tool for a
landscaper
17 Posh water18 Diva’s number
19 __ out a win
20 Forest canines23 Island near
Barbuda
24 Serve in the
capacity of
28 Secretary of state
before Shultz
29 “Yankee” entrée32 Close on film
34 Prefix with hertz
35 Big name in
vodka
36 Allowed37 “Good heavens!”40 Slippery swimmer
41 19th-century
Arizona lawman
43 Sly as __
44 Die down46 Diver’s weapon
48 Prohibitionists
49 Sirius XM radio
star
50 Coming-down-
with-somethingfeeling
53 Developing story,
and what thispuzzle’s circlesillustrate
57 “Buzz off!”60 Square cereal61 Wine list heading62 Mani mate63 Ritz-Carlton
competitor
64 First name in
cosmetics
65 Rink jump66 Vegas glower67 “The Tower” poet
DOWN
1 Prince Valiant’s
wife
2 Like the singin’
Spoonful
3 Do some holiday
decorating4 Versatile horse
5 Weaseling out
(on)
6 Longtime Boston
Symphony
maestro
7 Superman’s
favorite
sandwich?
8 It may be
registered
9 Pole, e.g.
10 Diego Rivera
works
11 Charter __:
historic Hartford
landmark
12 Jag to 
remember
13 Cancels (out)
21 Throw __22 Bud holder?25 Go out in the
afternoon?
26 To date27 Fashionista’s
concern
29 Evita’s married
name
30 African antelope
31 Diet Coke
predecessor
32 “Cagney &
Lacey” co-star
33 Took off34 Food that has an
extra-firm option
38 Hang back
39 Tea named for a
nobleman
42 Precook, in a
way
45 Close way to win47 Time away from
the base, for short
48 Stevens of
“Beauty and the
Beast” (2017)50 Recipe phrase
51 Short partner?
52 Mississippi
foursome
54 Macro or micro
subj.
55 Wistful words
56 Numbers game
57 Cruise ship
amenity
58 Bewitch
59 Dedicated 
piece
By Samuel A. Donaldson
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/03/1708/03/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 3, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Cold shoulder
5 Track competition
9 Multitudes
14 “Red” nuisance
15 Spitballs, to class
clowns
16 One-named “Tik
Tok” singer
17 Ineffectual exec19 “The Addams
Family” actorJohn
20 Itty-bitty21 A time to dye
23 Final check?
24 Await with
trepidation
26 A-list
28 Pioneers
33 Bagel flavor36 Like overly
graphic tabloidstories
37 Padre’s hermana
38 Keystone State
Ivy
39 Purple shade
40 Prepare to travel41 Tiny amount42 Topples (over)
43 Tough spots
44 Self-important
sort
47 Multitude48 Spiteful
51 Logician’s word
52 Pago Pago
resident
56 Fish often
smoked
58 “Live at __”: The
Who album
60 Traitors62 Jackie’s
predecessor
63 Smallest bills64 Massive
landmassinhabited bymasses
65 Trapshooting66 Japanese
soybean paste
67 End of Oktober?
DOWN
1 Crock-Pot
concoction
2 Pointed a finger
at
3 Word with cut or
crust
4 Get into the
pool?5 Ancient fortress
overlooking the
Dead Sea
6 Flightless birds
7 Put out
8 Reusable
grocery bag
9 Jamaican genre
10 “Fantine’s Arrest”
B’way show
11 It’s put on heirs12 Chinese side
dish
13 Playing with a full
deck
18 Hanker (for)
22 Archaeological
treasure
25 Ian Fleming’s
alma mater (and
the school thatexpelled JamesBond)
27 Youngster
29 Coming-clean
declaration
30 Breaks in the
action
31 Full of chutzpah
32 Fifth Avenue
landmark
33 Makes a decision34 Slob’s opposite35 “If you would be
so kind”39 Vichyssoise
veggies
40 Keystone State
univ.
42 Chain whose
website has a“Find a ColonelNear You”feature
43 Former French
capital
45 Gastronome
46 “Just watch me!”49 Kid around with
50 Himalayan
legends
51 Trees with ovate
leaves
53 Elementary bit54 Bond category,
for short
55 Mining hauls57 Test for a future
atty.
59 Filming site61 Big, clumsy type
By Debbie Ellerin©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/02/1708/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       8-23-17-4-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00
Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.
Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.
Call Now 1-800- 224-0305      8-3-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.     8-3-1-19
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
1.  Not very often
1.  Easily5.  ____ room
2.  Sideways6.  Unyielding 
3.  Bound7.  Silent flyer 
4.  Impede LODSME
YLIMPSTEMOL
DRIIG
RAELTLA
EIBOLDGDELGRI
DINHREANSWERS: 1A-Seldom  5A-Motel  6A-Rigid  7A-Glider
1D-Simply  2D-Lateral  3D-Obliged  4D-Hinder  B-Lily Tomlin8-3-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “I always wanted to be somebody, 
but now I realize I should have been more specific.”
BONUS1. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the larg-
est of the U.S. National Parks?
2. MYTHOLOGY: Whose kidnap-
ping was said to trigger The Trojan 
War?
3. AWARDS: Who was the youngest 
person to receive a Nobel Prize?
4. MOVIES: Which 1988 mov-
ie starred a character named John McClane?
5. MATH: How would you write the 
number 1015 in Roman numerals?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What profession’s members would most likely wear a toque?
7. MUSIC: What pop-music star 
sang the theme song “Nobody Does It Better” in the James Bond movie “The Spy Who Loved Me”?
8. SCIENCE: Who developed the 
Periodic Table of Elements?
9. ANATOMY: How many pints of 
blood are in the human body?
10. LANGUAGE: What is notewor -
thy about the word “facetiously”?
Answers
1. Wrangell-St. Elias in Alaska (over 
8 million acres)
2. Helen3. Malala Yousafzai, at age 174. “Die Hard”5. MXV6. Chefs
7. Carly Simon
8. Dmitri Mendeleev9. About 1010. It uses all vowels in alphabetical 
order
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 31, 2017King Features Weekly Service
COLLEGE FRI-YAYS
10% OFF EVERYTHING
SHOW US YOUR COLLEGE ID & WEAR YOUR SCHOOL COLORS
EVERY FRIDAY  JULY 21ST- SEPTEMBER 1ST15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/sportsFormer Florida tight end 
Jake McGee signed with the Pittsburgh Steelers on Wednesday. McGee played at UF in 2015 after three seasons with Virginia.Former Florida great John Reaves dead at 67
Former UF quarterback John Reaves died Tuesday at his home in T ampa. 
Reaves left the University of Florida as the NCAA's all-time leader in passing yards and was a first-round pick in the NFL. Authorities are still investigating his cause of death.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
There are currently 58 former 
Gators competing in NFL training 
camps this month. With the first 
preseason game of the year taking 
place tonight between Dallas and Arizona, football season is officially back with all 58 players 
vying for a spot on their team's 
53-man roster. Here are a few UF 
alumni who could have productive 
2017 campaigns.The defensive backs
When looking at all of the 
talented defensive backs who have come out of UF, it’s no 
wonder Florida is referred to as 
DBU.
Keanu Neal and Brian Poole, 
members of the Super Bowl runner-up Atlanta Falcons' 
secondary, made a huge impact in 
their rookie campaigns.
Neal finished second on the 
team in total tackles with 106 while 
Poole finished fifth with 59. Poole also recorded an interception, one 
of seven Falcons to do so.
Expect big things from the 
former Gators in 2017, especially 
playing under former UF defensive 
coordinator Dan Quinn.
Two seasons ago, Cleveland 
Browns veteran defensive back Joe Haden suffered a season-
ending concussion. Last year, 
he bounced back with 48 tackles and tied the team-high of three interceptions.Gators in the NFL: Defensive backs 
still going strong, Gillislee adapting
The Associated Press
Keanu Neal looks downfield during Atlanta's 45-32 win against 
New Orleans on Sept. 26, 2017, at Mercedes-Benz Superdome.
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Following the torn Achilles tendon 
suffered by redshirt senior Marcell 
Harris on July 19, questions arose as to 
who would replace him in the Gators’ secondary this fall.  Having already lost 
three starters from 2016 to the NFL, 
Harris, the team’s leading tackler last season, was expected to play a huge role 
for UF's defense in 2017.
Redshirt senior Nick Washington, who suffered a season-ending injury of his own 
as a freshman, lamented the loss of Harris 
at UF's media day on Wednesday, stating: 
“We always talked about finishing it out with each other.  It was tough to see him go down.”
There was speculation that sophomore 
Chauncey Gardner Jr. could slide into Harris' now vacant starting safety spot, 
but coach Jim McElwain squashed that 
theory on Wednesday, declaring Gardner Jr. would stay put at cornerback along UF secondary adjusting to 
loss of Marcell HarrisSEE NFL,  PAGE 16
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Marcell Harris looks on during Florida's 16-10 win against LSU on Nov. 19, 2016, at 
Tiger Stadium.
SEE SECONDARY,  PAGE 15By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Growing up in Kettering, Ohio, in 
the mid-2000s, if there was one college 
football team that stuck out to Malik 
Zaire, it was the Gators.
Zaire remembers watching Chris 
Leak and Tim Tebow lead Florida to two 
national championships over a three-year span while he was in middle school.
He remembers watching Urban 
Meyer transform UF from a mediocre SEC program to a formidable national powerhouse.
He remembers the volume of talent 
that came through Gainesville season after season.
So, when the lefty quarterback decided 
to transfer from Notre Dame this summer, the Gators seemed like a perfect fit.
“Growing up, Florida was like the 
school,” Zaire said at the team’s media day on Wednesday. “When I caught wind that there was potential that it could Malik Zaire ready for 
fresh start in Gainesville
The Associated Press
Malik Zaire attempts a pass during Notre Dame's 38-3 win against T exas on Sept. 
5, 2015, at Notre Dame Stadium.
SEE ZAIRE,  PAGE 15THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
happen, I just took it and held on 
to that.”
The ﬁ  fth-year senior chose 
UF over Wisconsin, Texas and Harvard, ofﬁ  cially enrolling at the 
university on June 26.
Zaire accumulated 816 passing 
yards and six touchdowns in 
limited opportunities with the 
Fighting Irish, starting only three 
games over four years in South Bend. He redshirted in 2013, served primarily as backup in 2014 and 2016, and missed most of 2015 with an ankle injury.
But now, in a new program 
with new teammates and new coaches, Zaire’s excited to have a fresh start.
“I’m just really focused 
on getting the respect of my teammates,” he said. “I can’t do it without the guys around me, so those other 10 guys on the ﬁ  eld with me at all times, it’s really important  that we be on the same page.”
Zaire is in direct competition 
for the starting quarterback role 
along with redshirt freshmen 
Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask as well as redshirt junior Luke Del Rio.
The 6-foot, 225-pound grad 
transfer received praise from his teammates and coaches on Wednesday for his dedication to studying the playbook, with some players stating he already knew the offense inside and out upon his arrival to Gainesville.
“He loves football,” offensive 
coordinator Doug Nussmeier said. “Through the recruiting process the phone would ring, ‘hey, I’m watching the replay of this game 
and that play’ and those type of 
things.”
Whether Zaire wins the 
starting job or not, his ultimate goal at Florida is to see the program succeed. 
“Of course I want to be out 
there the ﬁ  rst play and be out there for the season, but who doesn’t?” 
he said. “We just continue as a 
team and as a quarterback room to stick together and focus on the mission of winning that national 
championship.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
ZAIRE,  from pg 14Zaire recorded 816 passing yards and six touchdowns with the Irish
with senior Duke Dawson.
Two names that did come 
up regarding the open spot at 
safety were redshirt freshman 
Quincy Lenton and sophomore 
Jeawon Taylor. Both missed time this spring with injuries but are fully healthy in time for UF's fall 
camp, much to the excitement of McElwain.
"This is almost like a new 
camp for them," Florida's head coach said. "And yet what we saw early when they were out 
there are guys that we think can play for us, so it'll be interesting 
to see that battle with those 
guys."
Harris' safety spot could go 
to Lenton, Taylor or perhaps incoming freshman Donovan 
Stiner.
The Gators pulled in five 
cornerbacks in its most recent 
recruiting class as well.  Brian Edwards, Brad Stewart, C.J. Henderson, Shawn Davis 
and Marco Wilson—younger 
brother of former UF corner Quincy Wilson—will all get an 
opportunity to earn playing time.
It isn’t uncommon for true 
freshmen to find the field at Florida.  Vernon Hargreaves 
III, Marcus Roberson and Jalen 
Tabor did so in recent years, 
although this trend goes back as far as Urban Meyer starting Joe Haden and Janoris Jenkins in 2007 and 2008.UF frequently loses defensive 
stars to the NFL, but has been able to consistently reload its roster and defend at a high level 
the following year.
Its 2015 team lost Hargreaves 
III to Tampa Bay, while Keanu Neal and Brian Poole were picked 
up by Atlanta, leaving three 
gaping holes in the secondary.  
But in 2016, Florida’s pass 
defense actually improved, 
finishing fourth in the country in pass yards allowed per game, compared to 11th one season 
before.
While a jump like that might 
not be realistic considering the added loss of Harris on top of 
Tabor, Wilson and Marcus Maye, Florida shouldn't have too many 
issues finding players to fill their 
shoes.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
SECONDARY,  from pg 14Gardner Jr. spent time at safety and cornerback for UF last season
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 2017
SALES REP
OF THE SEMESTER
Summer B 2017
Gloria Li
major: Business Management
CONGRA TULATIONS!
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1In seven seasons in the NFL, 
Haden has recorded three or 
more interceptions in ﬁ  ve of 
them. Don’t expect that pattern to 
change in 2017.
Vernon Hargreaves III ﬁ  nished 
fourth on the Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers in tackles with 76 
during his ﬁ  rst year in the NFL and played in all 16 games.
With his sophomore season just one month away, the Tampa native should continue to succeed in a starting role. 
Gillislee’s new team
Running back Mike Gillislee 
has found limited success in his 
ﬁ  rst four seasons in the NFL. 
After playing in only three 
games through two years with the Miami Dolphins, the Deland, Florida, native received increased playing time with the Bills in 2015 and 2016. Gillislee averaged 5.7 yards per carry and scored 11 touchdowns during his time in Buffalo.
But in 2017, he once again 
ﬁ  nds himself on a new roster, this time with the New England Patriots. The former Gator will try to replace the departing 
LeGarrette Blount as the team’s 
primary early-down runner and goal-line back.
However, with Super Bowl hero James White and offseason pickup Rex Burkhead also in the mix, Gillislee has some competition for the role. If he wins the job, 2017 could be his best season yet.
Reed questionable Week 1Washington Redskins tight end 
Jordan Reed suffered a toe sprain 
during training camp and was 
moved to the physically unable to perform list on July 26.
Reed had a good season last year, ﬁ  nishing fourth on the team with 686 yards on 66 receptions. His 10.4 yards per carry ranked ﬁ  fth on the team.
However, Reed does have a 
history of injuries, something the Redskins are taking into consideration with his latest toe sprain. If he can stay healthy, 
expect a career-year out of Reed.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
NFL,  from pg 14Reed inished fourth on Redskins with 686 yards last season