We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 127 TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
Florida football working on red zone 
oﬀ  ense
The Gators ranked 126th in the category last season, pg. 14
UF: Corn may be future of rare cancer treatment
Researchers discovered corn-cell mutations were similar to acute myeloid leukemia, pg. 4
UPD: Men attempted to steal bicycles at UF
They targeted a garage behind Hume Hall, cops say, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Two years after its suspension 
from campus, UF’s chapter of the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity is back with a new class of brothers.
In mid-February, 60 brothers 
were initiated, said Matt Redler, the president of UF’s chapter of the fraternity. They narrowed down the group from more than 800 ap-plications and referral letters, which 
include men recommended to the 
fraternity from sororities.
“It’s really exciting to see the let-
ters of ZBT around campus again,” Redler said. “I think we’ve been un-deniably missed from the university 
for some time.”
The chapter was suspended 
from UF in April 2015 after mem-
bers reportedly spat, urinated and 
poured beer on veterans in Panama 
City, CNN reported at the time. No 
members of the fraternity faced criminal charges, according to Alli-gator archives. The earliest the chapter could 
return to campus was Spring 2017, and they were required to recruit 
all new members, according to ar-
chives. 
Laurence Bolotin, the executive 
director of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity, said staff members from ZBT were  ZBT initiates members after two-year suspension
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
GET ON THE BALL
University Police ofﬁ  cer, Henri Belleville, 43, signs a large beach volleyball during Zeta Beta T au’s grand debut philanthropy event. Every signature raises money for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals thanks to the fraternity's sponsors.
A THIRD OF SURVEYED 
UF STUDENTS REPORTED 
THEY DIDN'T 
USE CONDOMS.
By Richard Cochran
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recent survey claims 65 per-
cent of Americans are having un-protected sex.
The online survey, conducted 
by Superdrug Online Doctor, surveyed 1,000 Americans and 1,000 Europeans. A similar sur-vey done by GatorWell Health Promotions Services in 2009 found 31.7 percent of UF stu-dents said they used a condom while 32.2 percent of students said they didn’t use a condom.
“There are multiple factors 
for this,” said Roger Dolz, pro-gram administrator at the Ala-chua County Health Department. “Most college students don’t know where to access condoms for free, and there can be barri-ers such as transportation and 
costs.”  
According to the Florida De-
partment of Health, Alachua 
County ranks fourth in Florida with the highest rate of sexually 
transmitted diseases. Dolz said 
this is because of Gainesville’s 
college environment.  
“We really try to empower 
students to make their own 
choices when it comes to sex,” 
said Samantha Evans, a sexual 
health educator with GatorWell Health Promotions Services.
Evans promotes safe sex 
through presentations at resi-
dence halls, organization meet-
ings and upon request.
Students can get free condoms 
at the GatorWell Health Promo-
tions Services main ofﬁ  ce in 
the Reitz Union, Jennings Hall, 
Springs Residential Complex and at the Health Hut, Evans said.
“We do what we can to pro-
vide barriers to students for 
free,” Evans said.  Survey: 65 percent of 
US not using condoms 
By Scottie Andrew
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After her sister was sexually as-
saulted as a teenager, UF alumna 
Jacqueline Ros created a product to make notifying friends of unsafe situations easier.
Her company, Revolar, will re-
lease its newest wearable safety device April 4 on the crowdfunding website Indiegogo. 
Her new product, Revolar In-
stinct, will be smaller than the original Revolar, which came out in May 2016.
When people are in suspicious 
situations or walking alone, they can clip the device on their cloth-ing and tap it to alert friends if they feel unsafe. 
The upgraded device also tracks 
users' steps and vibrates to let the user know when someone re-ceived their message, which is sent through a mobile app.
“We want to empower someone 
in those little moments, not just the big ones,” said Ros, who graduated from UF in 2012 with a bachelor’s degree in international studies and Spanish. “Sometimes you just need your friends to come and get you.” 
The 26-year-old said when her 
sister was assaulted, she couldn’t unlock her phone or call for help. Ros wants to help others in similar situations. 
Indiegogo users can buy the 
Instinct for $59 before it’s sold in stores for $79, she said. 
The upcoming launch will offer 
a community package to college organizations to test the device’s reverse notiﬁ  cation feature, which warns organization members of danger. If triggered by a member, everyone in the organization will be notiﬁ  ed of that person’s loca-
 UF alumna's invention notiﬁ  es friends of sketchy situationsSEE ZBT,  PAGE 4
SEE SAFETY,  PAGE 4The frat hopes to rebuild its reputation
NATIONSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Our Fake Democracy
On Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in 
the Reitz Union, Room G320, Democracy Matters UF is or-ganizing an event called Our 
Fake Democracy, where there 
will be a panel discussion on nonpartisan democratic values and institutions that are under attack and are eroding in con-temporary times. These institu-tions include voting rights, ob-structionism and big money in politics. The panel will include a 
student, professor and commu-
nity activist. Afterward, there will be action tables where par-ticipants can move and act on the democratic institutions the panel discussed. People can call or write their representatives, sign petitions and join other po-litical organizations.
Launch your student career 
to the next level: Become a Fulbright ScholarA Fulbright U.S. Student Program info session will be held from 3 p.m. to 3:50 p.m. Thursday at the UF International Center in the Hub. The Fulbright U.S. 
Student Program provides grants 
for individually designed study/research projects or for English Teaching Assistant Programs. During their grants, Fulbrighters will meet, work, live with and learn from the people of the host country, sharing daily experi-ences. Interested? For more in-
formation, please contact Regan 
Garner at rlgarner@ufl.edu or visit ufic.ufl.edu/Fulbright/FulbrightUSstudents.html.
EACN 20th Annual Glow Run
The 20th Annual Equal Access Clinic 5K Race will be a “glow run” and will take place Saturday 
at 7 p.m. at the Southwest 
Recreation Center. The EACN is a network of student-run free health care clinics established by the UF College of Medicine. The clinics are made possible through the generous contri-butions of student and faculty volunteers, as well as funding 
from the community. Register 
for the EACN 5K Glow Run at equalaccess5k.itsyourrace.com. Registration will be $20 for chil-dren and $25 for adults for pre-entry until 11:59 p.m. Friday. Race-day entry Saturday will be $25 for children and $30 for adults.
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels, including first-time dancers. Classes will take place in Dance Studio A in the Reitz Union on Sundays. The begin-ners class will start at 6:15 p.m., 
followed by an intermediate/ad-
vanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, bal-let, salsa shoes or even a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week, April 3 to April 7The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s sec-ond annual Graduate Student Appreciation Week. This weeklong event is designed to celebrate the accomplish-ments and contributions of 
more than 12,000 UF graduate 
students. The week will show-case the work of UF’s gradu-ate students and highlight the services they provide to the university and the community through research, teaching and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, 
Graduate Wellness Day with the 
Counseling & Wellness Center, professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student orga-nization showcase, an ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring 
game. To learn more, please vis-
it graduateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual ViolenceJoin Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, the UF Student Health Care Center and plan-
ning partners as they Take Back 
the Night to demonstrate sup-port for sexual violence survi-vors, share stories and create a culture of care. The event will take place April 5 at 5:30 p.m. on Norman Field. It involves a 1-mile march around campus that ends with an open mic. 
There will be speakers, resourc-
es for survivors, free T-shirts, food and amazing performers. Learn more at www.facebook.com/StriveUF or email RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as 
Connecting the Living to the 
DeadA historian of the Islamic world, France and medicine from McMaster University will give a free public lecture April 6 at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Ellen Amster will discuss the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in precolonial Morocco. For Muslim pilgrims visiting the tombs of the saints, these holy bodies offered cures 
by linking heaven and Earth. 
These traditions and beliefs were challenged by French colo-nialism and notions of science in the late 19th century and early 20th century. This event is the seventh in an eight-part series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide,” during which in-
ternationally renowned scholars 
and filmmakers explore unique cultural and historical confron-tations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion.
University Galleries presents: 
‘Currents 2017’University Galleries and student organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present “Currents 2017 Perception: Color and Content” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until April 19. “Currents” is an annual national juried exhibition co-juried by 
Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. 
“Perception: Color and Content” is thematically focused on the idea of how perception of color can change the way content is perceived. This important annu-al exhibition selects jurors and addresses contemporary themes in ceramic art. “Currents 2017” 
will expand the educational ex-
perience for students in UF’s School of Art + Art History and engage the public with color and content within contempo-rary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening reception are free and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  856° LOW  56°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 127TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
24-HOUR GIVING CHALLENGE
March 29–30 · TheAmazingGive.org
ANIMALS
Alachua County Humane Society, Gainesville Pet Rescue, Gentle Carousel Miniature 
Therapy Horses, Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue, Helping Hands Pet Rescue, HOrses Helping PEople (HOPE), Operation Catnip, South West Florida Horse Rescue, Inc.
ARTS AND CULTURE
Active Streets Alliance, Cade Museum for Creativity + Invention, Dance Alive National Ballet, Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Civic Chorus, Gainesville Youth 
Chorus, Inc., The Hippodrome Theatre
COMMUNITY ADVOCACY
31-32 Foundation, Inc., Active for Recovery, Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health 
Coalition, Alachua Habitat for Humanity, Basketball Cop Foundation, Catholic Charities Gainesville, Center for Independent Living of North Central Florida, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Community Weatherization Coalition, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Friends of T acachale, Gainesville Opportunity Center, Gainesville Police 
Department, Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation (NHDC), Partnership 
for Strong Families, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, Southwest Advocacy Group (SWAG), South West Florida Horse Rescue, Inc., The Guardian Foundation, Inc.
EDUCATION
The Independent Florida Alligator, 31-32 Foundation, Inc., Aces in Motion, AMIkids Gainesville, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Cade Museum for Creativity + Invention, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Dance Alive National Ballet, Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Black Professionals, Gainesville Youth Chorus, Inc., Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls Place, Inc., Healthy Families ACUB, Junior Achievement of Alachua County, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation (NHDC), North Florida Founda-tion for Research and Education, Inc., Operation Catnip, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rabel, Inc., Southern Legal Council, Inc., Southwest Advo-cacy Group (SWAG), The Einstein School, The Hippodrome Theatre, United Way of North Central Florida
EMERGENCY RESPONSE
Gainesville Police Department, HeartSafe City Foundation
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Active Streets Alliance, Gainesville Black Professionals, Junior Achievement of Alachua County
ENVIRONMENT
Community Weatherization Coalition, We Are Neutral
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
Aces in Motion, ACORN Clinic, Active for Recovery, Active Streets Alliance, Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, Girls on the Run of Alachua County, Healthy Families ACUB, Meridian Behavioral Healthcare, NAMI Gainesville, North Florida Foundation for Research and Education, Inc., Penny Box App Giving Fund, Rebuilding T ogether North Central Florida, Ronald McDonald House Charities of North Central Florida, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rabel, Inc., Southwest Advocacy Group (SWAG), Stop Children’s Cancer, Inc., The Climb for Cancer Foundation, United Way of North Central Florida, Westside Samaritans Clinic 
HOMELESSNESS AND HOUSING
Alachua Habitat for Humanity, Catholic Charities Gainesville, Community Weatheriza-tion Coalition, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, GRACE, Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation (NHDC), Penny Box App Giving Fund, Rebuilding T ogether North Central Florida, Southern Legal Coun-cil, Inc.
POVERTY AND HUNGER
Catholic Charities Gainesville, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Gainesville Opportunity Center, GRACE, Junior League of Gainesville, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., Penny Box App Giving Fund, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rebel, Inc., United Way of North Central Florida
SENIORS
Friends of T acachale, Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses
SOCIAL JUSTICE
Active For Recovery, Basketball Cop Foundation, Center for Independent Living of North Central Florida, Gainesville Opportunity Center, Gainesville Police Department, GRACE, Partnership for Strong Families, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, South Legal Council, Inc., The Guardian Foundation, Inc.
VETERANS
Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, HOrses Helping PEople (HOPE), North Florida Foundation for Research and Education, Inc.
WOMEN’S ISSUES
Alachua County  Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls Place, Inc., Healthy Families ACUB, Junior League of Gainesville, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network
YOUTH
31-31 Foundation, Aces In Motion, AMIkids Gainesville, Basketball Cop Foundation, Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Dance Alive National Ballet, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Youth Chorus, Inc., Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses, Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls on the Run of Alachua County, Girls Place, Inc. HOrses Helping PEople (HOPE), Junior Achievement of Alachua County, Junior League of Gainesville, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., NAMI Gaines-ville, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Partnership for Strong Families, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, South West Florida Horse Rescue, Inc., Stop Children’s Cancer, Inc., The Einstein School, The Guardian Foundation, Inc.4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
tion, Ros said.
Taylor Nicole Clark, a UF biol-
ogy sophomore, said she bought 
a stun gun her first year at UF for walking home from the library late at night. She said she would use the Revolar device so her friends can track her if her phone dies. 
“It sounds genius,” the 20-year-
old said. 
Ros said Revolar is the Spanish word for “to take flight again.” The company is named after her sister and other survivors of sexual as-sault.
“We want to honor those who 
pick themselves up repeatedly,” she said. 
SAFETY,  from pg.1Revolar means 'to take flight again'on campus since Summer recruit-ing new members.
“Our expectation is that this 
group becomes the strongest fra-ternity on campus as well as the strongest within ZBT,” Bolotin wrote in an email.
Redler said he was drawn to 
ZBT for its message and unique no-pledging system. He said in the Fall, he was formerly involved with another fraternity, which he declined to mention, but didn’t like how it handled things.
Instead of having pledges, 
Redler said ZBT initiates new members 72 hours after receiving an invitation to join the fraternity. He said the no-pledging system is used to ensure that members uphold the fraternity’s standards every day.Redler said ZBT was the first 
fraternity to eliminate the pledge program. 
“We believe that members of 
our organization should earn their membership every single day they call themselves a ZBT, rather than just go through a tough educa-tion process as a pledge and never have to worry about earning the membership of the organization afterward,” he said.
Redler said he’s looking for-
ward to expanding the chapter. He said after ZBT’s suspension, he thinks they can rebuild its reputa-tion by excelling academically and giving back to the community. 
“I think just by sticking to our 
message we can be one of the strongest fraternities on campus in just a few years,” he said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
ZBT,  from pg.1Official: The fraternity 
hopes to expand at UFCORN-CELL MUTATIONS 
WERE SIMILAR TO ACUTE 
MYELOID LEUKEMIA. 
By Bryan Boggiano
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Clues to treat some forms of 
cancer might lie in one of the 
world’s most consumed foods. 
Mark Settles, a UF professor 
of plant cell and molecular biol-
ogy, published a study on March 
14 showing how mutated corn 
cells are similar to human cancer 
development. The mutation in 
some corn DNA resembled acute 
myeloid leukemia, a human bone 
marrow and blood cancer, Settles 
said. 
“We are capturing the same 
phenomenon in corn as we are in 
people, which is incredible,” he 
said. 
The study was conducted 
over about five years and looked 
at corn molecules linked to the 
plant’s development. If the cells don’t divide and 
differentiate correctly early in the plant’s life, uncontrolled cell growth is possible, similar to can-cer, Settles said.
In human and corn cells, about 
one percent of the genes are im-pacted by this mutation. 
“If you get the mutation in your 
blood system, then your blood cells don’t differentiate properly,” Settles said. “The stem cells just sit there until they get another muta-
tion and turn into a leukemia.”
Acute myeloid leukemia is most 
common in people older than 45 
and has a five-year survival rate of about 26 percent, according to the American Cancer Society. 
The similarities in both cell 
types could unlock treatment op-tions for various human illnesses, said Kevin Folta, UF’s horticultur-al sciences department chair.
 “Sometimes, plants hold im-
portant genetic clues that could inform treatments or even better understand basic mechanisms of cancer,” Folta said.UF: Corn may lead to 
rare cancer treatmentBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police arrested two 
Florida men on Sunday after they 
were seen trying to steal bicycles in a UF parking garage behind Hume Hall.
George Bill Black, 59, and Je-
rome Lee Dunn, 53, were found in the parking garage next to the Commuter Lot on Gale Lemerand 
Drive at about 7:45 p.m. after a 911 caller told police they were 
pulling bicycle locks in the ga-rage, according to an arrest re-port. 
After their arrest, Black and 
Dunn told police they were drink-
ing in the garage until a ride came and picked them up, according to 
the report. 
The witness who saw Black 
and Dunn pulling bicycle locks identified the men in a lineup, police said. He said he saw them trying to steal bicycles.
Police arrested Black and 
Dunn on a charge of loitering and prowling. The men were taken to Alachua County Jail where Black 
remains, as of press time, in lieu 
of a $25,000 bond. Dunn was re-
leased on his own recognizance 
on Monday afternoon.
Dunn could not be reached for 
comment.
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgUPD: Two men arrested after trying to steal bicycles 
They targeted a UF garage, cops said
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
BEFORE I DIE…
Chalk writings adorn the “Before I Die” wall at the Reitz Union on Monday afternoon. The “Before I 
Die” wall is meant to encourage reflection and will be at the Reitz Union this week.
The Associated Press
NEW YORK (AP) — A white 
racist accused of fatally stabbing a 
66-year-old stranger on a Manhat-tan street because he was black says he’d intended it as “a practice run” 
in a mission to deter interracial re-
lationships.
James Harris Jackson, 28, spoke 
with a reporter for the Daily News 
at New York City’s Rikers Island jail complex.
He said he envisioned a white 
woman thinking: “Well, if that guy feels so strongly about it, maybe I shouldn’t do it.”
The victim, Timothy Caughman, 
who was remembered as a gentle-man and a good neighbor, was alone and collecting bottles for recycling last week when he was attacked from behind with a sword. He stag-gered, bleeding, into a police station and later died at a hospital.
Jackson was in court Monday, as 
prosecutors charged him with mur-der as an act of terrorism in addition to the murder as a hate crime charge he’d already been facing. Jackson did not speak, and his attorney had no comment.
Childhood friends of Caughman, 
who grew up in Queens, attended the hearing and said he was a kind 
man who didn’t deserve the brutal-
ity.
“Tim Caughman did not deserve 
to die like that,” said Portia Clark. “Nobody does. I mean, come on, we’re black, white, yellow, brown — that’s ridiculous. We’re trying to 
get along.”
Carl Nimmons wept outside court 
after seeing Jackson. “It really hurt 
me to see that man because I can’t do nothing about it. I don’t have the power to do anything about it,” he said.
In the interview, Jackson said 
in retrospect, he would rather have killed “a young thug” or “a success-ful older black man with blondes, 
people you see in Midtown. These 
younger guys that put white girls on the wrong path.”
He complained that on television, 
“It’s like every other commercial in the past few years has a mixed-race couple in it.”
“The white race is being eroded. 
No one cares about you. The Chi-
nese don’t care about you, the blacks 
don’t care about you,” he said.
Jackson, who was raised in what 
was described as a churchgoing, liberal family in a Baltimore sub-urb, said his ideal society is “1950s America.”Racist sword killer says he’d 
mulled racial attack for yearsCAMPUSTUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF College of Medicine is 
maintaining its position among the 
top-50 medical schools in the nation.
According to a ranking by the 
U.S. News & World Report released March 14, the college placed No. 40 out of 140 medical schools, tying with three other universities. The ranking took into account the col-
leges’ selectivity, primary-care rate, research activity and quality, accord-
ing to the report’s website.
Harvard University ranked No. 1, 
while Stanford University and Johns Hopkins University ranked second and third respectively, according to the website. 
Although the college didn’t brush 
shoulders with Ivy League institu-
tions, students and faculty said the 
program’s quality outweighs the prestige of other universities.
Dr. Patrick Duff, the college’s associate dean of student affairs, said the school excels in acquiring research grants, giving doctors and students access to new technology and providing high-quality patient care. With 550 current students, UF’s medical school also ranks No. 16 out of all public schools, accord-ing to the report’s website.
“It’s a great honor for the Col-
lege of Medicine to be ranked so high among all universities, strictly among public universities,” Duff said. “It speaks well of the leader-ship of the college, the faculty and the quality of the students.”
Daniel Buchen, a ﬁ  rst-year gradu-
ate student, said out of the ﬁ  ve medi-cal schools he was accepted into, he chose to attend UF because while 
visiting the university, the faculty 
and students made him feel at home.
“It’s the extraordinary high cali-
ber of the teachers, the research that we conduct, the support that 
we have for our students, the level 
of preparedness that we have to go 
into a clinical setting,” the 24-year-
old said. 
 UF’s College of Medicine program ranked No. 40 in nation
By Darcy Schild
Alligator Contributing Writer
In honor of Women’s History Month, 
Santa Fe College aims to encourage volun-
teerism and leadership among local women.
Santa Fe’s Civic Engagement and Service 
Ofﬁ  ce will host the Women’s History Month Involvement Showcase on Wednesday to encourage students to become involved 
with local nonproﬁ  ts speciﬁ  cally for women 
and girls in Gainesville.
This is the ofﬁ  ce’s ﬁ  rst involvement 
showcase speciﬁ  cally highlighting organiza-tions either started by or catered to women, 
said Sarah Blanc, a coordinator at the Santa 
Fe Ofﬁ  ce of Civic Engagement and Service.
The event will take place from 10 a.m. to 
1 p.m. in the S-Breezeway, located outside of the S-Building on the Santa Fe campus on Northwest 83rd Street.
The involvement fair will feature 15 non-
proﬁ  ts that are actively seeking volunteers, Blanc said.
“Since it’s Women’s History Month, I re-
ally wanted to highlight the amazing work that a lot of women do in our community,” Blanc said. “Those women also make in-credible role models and mentors for our 
students.”
Tyler Harris, a Santa Fe business admin-
istration and theater freshman, said one of 
the most rewarding parts of her college ex-
perience has been participating in commu-
nity service programs.
The 18-year-old said she hopes the Wom-
en’s History Month Involvement Showcase encourages people to get involved.
“It’s not only for women’s history, but 
it’s for getting involved in any sort of service project,” Harris said. “We all live here, and I think deep down, we all want to see our 
community evolve.”  Santa Fe College celebrates 
Women’s History Month RENOVATIONS INCLUDE 
NEW EQUIPMENT AND 
A NEW CYCLING STUDIO.
By Jordan Folkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville Health & Fitness is celebrat-
ing the completion of a multimillion-dollar 
transformation project with open-house 
events starting this Friday.
The gym’s main center, located at 4820 
W. Newberry Road, will be hosting an open 
house weekend from Friday to Sunday. 
The weekend will consist of a dance party, 
ﬁ  tness download and meditation day.
The renovations cost about $9 million 
over a ﬁ  ve-year period, all implemented by the owner Joe Cirulli and designed by New York-based architect Rudy Fabiano. Cirulli founded Gainesville Health & Fit-
ness in 1978 and currently serves more 
than 27,000 members from all around the Gainesville and Alachua County area. 
“This renovation allowed us to stay 
ahead of the game and have cutting-edge technology,” Cirulli said. 
New expansions to the center include 
separate boutique ﬁ  tness areas that adhere to the customer’s needs, said Debbie Lee, senior director of marketing for Gainesville Health & Fitness. There is also a new cy-
cling studio, new equipment and more 
space along with other amenities.
“Things change in life over time so we 
want to be able to be there every step of the way with things that are appropriate 
for whatever stage of life you may be in 
now,” Lee said.
Mark Canty, a UF chemistry sophomore 
with a specialization in biochemistry, said 
he is looking forward to the open house. 
He said he hopes that UF will work with the ﬁ  tness center to offer discounts to stu-dents who want more opportunities to cre-ate a healthy lifestyle.
“Even though I’m not from around here, 
I’m still really excited about the new reno-vations,” the 20-year-old said. “It’s cool to use new equipment and interact with lo-
cals. It gives students a chance to see that 
there’s more to Gainesville than just UF.”  Gainesville Health & Fitness 
debuts $9 million expansionTOP FIVE MED SCHOOLS
• Harvard University
• Stanford University
• Johns Hopkins University
• University of California — 
San Francisco
• University of Pennsylvania (Perelman)
SOME OF THE ORGANIZATIONS 
SEEKING VOLUNTEERS ARE:
• Alachua County Victim Services
• Alachua Women Build
• Girls Place, Inc.
• Gainesville Girls Rock CampSANTA FEIt ranked 16th out of public schools
“This renovation allowed us to stay ahead 
of the game...”
Joe Cirulli
Gainesville Health ownerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Don’t be ashamed of your cheap taste; cherish it
In my time at this university, I’ve found 
the college experience often presents a fascinating intersection of tastes. Some of us consider ourselves full-blown adults, while others lean more toward an “adult-
lite” classiﬁ  cation, resulting in a hilariously wide variety of hedonistic preferences. 
I have one friend who would happily eat 
day-old Little Caesar’s pizza every day. I have another who speaks of charcuterie boards in hushed, reverent tones. Similarly, many of my friends are perfectly content slugging well vodka Sprites while they ﬁ  ght to the death for their per-sonal space at Midtown. Others wouldn’t step foot on that godforsaken strip of dilapidated college bars if I paid them, and the rest lay somewhere in between these two camps (including myself). 
That’s the thing about preferences; it’s impossible for 
them to be right or wrong, simply based on the prem-ise that they’re preferences. The New York Times pub-lished an opinion piece earlier this month titled “Ignore the Snobs, Drink the Cheap, Delicious Wine,” a won-derfully inconsequential analysis of the false assumption that cheap wine is fundamentally bad simply because it’s cheap. 
Despite the increasing demand for so-called “natu-
ral wines” that are created with organic ingredients and minimal chemical intervention, Bosker points out that the winemaking process has always been a scientiﬁ  c one. The inevitable hesitation toward wine manufactured with chemical additives is often unwarranted, as these additives correct ﬂ  aws and replicate the taste that con-sumers want, thereby democratizing the wine industry.
The piece made several interesting points about the 
shrinking gap in quality between commercial and high-end wine, but the conclusion that truly stuck with me pointed out that the classiﬁ  cation of wine as good or bad is irrelevant to someone who truly enjoys it. To them, their enjoyment makes it good. As someone who has enjoyed box wine straight out of the spigot, I really don’t feel qualiﬁ  ed to make any profound conclusions about wine quality, but I do believe that this can be ex-trapolated and applied to the notion of taste in general. 
Almost every time I ﬁ  nd myself at any bar 
in Midtown, I’ll think about how objectively terrible it is. Since you’re reading this column, I’ll just assume you can come up with plenty 
of reasons on your own for why that is. Yet, after this thought crosses my mind, I quickly realize that it doesn’t matter since apparently some part of me gets enjoyment out of its sticky ﬂ  oors, cramped bars and stupidly cheap drinks. 
I’m sure a large portion of this enjoyment stems from 
its ﬂ  eeting nature, as I’m almost constantly aware that the college-bar phase of my life will soon be over. I’ll have my whole life to drink quality drinks and pretend like I never stepped foot in Balls bar, so why rush the inevitable? However, that’s the paradox of senior year: We cherish our last moments as undergrads and the in-herently “undergrad” experiences that accompany them but simultaneously yearn for the next stage of our lives.
As graduation looms closer, I’ve started to make note 
of the advice I would give some of my younger friends (even though absolutely no one has asked for it). One of the points I wrote down was to experience all that Gainesville has to offer in terms of nightlife, but never think you’re too good for Midtown. It’s as stereotypically collegiate as ramen, free T-shirts and twin XL sheets. One day, you’ll think back on it at least somewhat fondly. Besides, no college kid is too good for $2 doubles. 
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.The terrorism 
Trump doesn’t see
Two days before a knife-wielding assailant killed three 
people and injured 40 in an attack outside the houses of Parliament, a second act of terrorism went largely under the radar — and it happened in the heart of the US.
A racist white U.S. Army veteran hopped a bus from 
Washington to New York for one simple reason: to kill black people.
With a 26-inch sword concealed underneath his long coat, 
James Harris Jackson roamed the streets of Manhattan on March 20, looking for a target of his deep hatred of the black race, one he has harbored since he was a child.
He found it in 66-year-old Timothy Caughman, a man with a 
passion for celebrity gossip and recycling. While Caughman was collecting cans in midtown Manhattan, Jackson, 28, unsheathed 
his sword and repeatedly stabbed Caughman in the chest and 
back, for no other reason that the pigment of his skin.
Caughman staggered into a police station, bloodied and dying. 
Jackson surrendered to police just after midnight on Wednesday.
“I’ve hated black men since I was a kid. I’ve had these feelings 
since I was a young person. I hate black men,” he told police, ac-cording to The New York Times. 
He told detectives he hoped the killing, of which he has been 
charged, would be the ﬁ  rst of several, but when he saw his pic-
ture publicized, he turned himself in.
Now, if you have listened to what our president has told us, 
that the best source of pure, unadulterated truth is what he posts 
on Twitter, you may have missed this act of domestic terrorism.
But it has been about four days since the attack, and President 
Donald Trump has yet to tell his 27 million Twitter followers about it. Instead, he posted about letting the Affordable Care Act explode and what time a certain Fox News show would air.
A terrorist randomly killed an American citizen in one of the 
most recognizable cities on the planet, and we can’t bother our president, the “law and order president,” to condemn it. But when it was revealed that an American was killed in the London attack, Trump immediately took to Twitter.
“A great American, Kurt Cochran, was killed in the London 
terror attack,” he tweeted on Thursday. “My prayers and condo-lences are with his family and friends.”
Where are the prayers for Caughman? Where are the condo-
lences? Where are the tweets? Trump offered none.
Luckily, hundreds of Twitter users took it upon themselves to 
honor Caughman’s life, tracking down his Twitter account and bringing to light old posts from the man that hinted at his person-ality and life. He was an autograph collector and a can and bottle recycler who lived in a homeless shelter. In one photo, he seemed happy to be waiting in line to vote in the presidential election.
But to Trump, Caughman’s death was not as important as 
Cochran’s, because Cochran’s came at the hand of a Muslim at-tacker, in a type of attack made famous by Islamic extremists, the 
very same Trump vowed to “exterminate.” 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time an attack that doesn’t follow Trump’s 
narrative has fallen on deaf ears at the White House.
On Jan. 29, a lone gunman killed six people and injured 8 
others at a mosque in Quebec City, Canada. While no Americans 
were harmed, surely a terror attack of this caliber just north of the US would draw ire from Trump. It didn’t, at least not publicly.
Why not concede that terrorism comes in many forms? Why 
not show empathy for members of the global citizenry of all 
faiths, races and walks of life? We hope a member of the press 
pool calls on White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer — or Trump himself — to answer this.
The president of one of the most powerful nations in the 
world has a responsibility to condemn acts of hate everywhere, at least in his own damn continent. That he hasn’t is an outrage.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
I’ve always been an anime fan, and I’ve 
never been too keen on hiding it. I love 
talking about new anime or what will hap-pen in the next episodes of unﬁ  nished shows. However, what I want to talk 
about today is not which anime shows I think are worth watching, but how I got into anime and why you should, too. To start, an anime is a Japanese cartoon. Anime can be any kind of genre, ranging the gamut of comedy, sci-ﬁ  , mystery, action, fantasy, etc. They are usually shown in one of three versions: the original which is unedited and in Japanese, a subbed (short for subtitle) version where the characters’ dialogues are sub-titled at the bottom of the video and dubbed, where the voice acting is replaced with English or American voice acting. I started watching an-
ime at a young age when “Naruto” 
ﬁ  rst started appearing on the late-night Saturday version of Cartoon Network, called Toonami. “Naruto” is a story of a young, lonely orphan boy named Naruto, who endures hardship to become the greatest ninja in his village. At the time of his birth, Naruto’s par-ents sacriﬁ  ced themselves to pro-tect him, but in doing so, ended up cursing Naruto, in a way. This curse causes the entire village to outcast Naruto and essentially wish he was dead. 
So, how do I connect to this 
whole story? Well, I’m not a ninja, 
I’m not an orphan and I don’t think 
I aspire to become the strongest 
person in my college town. I share 
nothing with Naruto, but at certain 
points in my life, I really looked up to him. When my drug addict of a father and I would ﬁ  ght, when he and my mom would scream at the top of their lungs arguing over bills or when I’d hear of friends who didn’t make it out of the terrible neighborhood we all grew up in and were either in gangs selling or robbing other people, I really wished I had Naruto’s poise and mentality. I understand he’s a ﬁ  c-tional character and all that, but sometimes we need to look to ﬁ  ction for inspiration. 
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. 
This column's full version can be found at 
alligator.org/opinion.
Why ﬁ  ctional shows like anime can be a source of inspiration in our livesColumn
James 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
 Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
HE SAID HE COULDN’T 
BREATHE AND WAS 
TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Highway Patrol arrested 
a Trenton, Florida, man Saturday 
on a charge of drinking and driving 
when he drove a car into a utility 
pole.Matthew Edward Connelly, 57, 
was driving east near the 28000 
block of W. Newberry Road at 
about 10:30 p.m. when trafﬁ  c in 
front of him began to slow down, 
according to an arrest report. FHP 
said Connelly didn’t see the trafﬁ  c 
halting and swerved to avoid crash-
ing into the car in front of him.
He drove off the road and into 
the other lane of trafﬁ  c, hitting a 
utility pole in the right shoulder, according to the report. 
A responding trooper noticed 
Connelly smelled like alcohol and 
had red, watery eyes, according 
to the report. He also performed 
poorly on ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises, 
according to the responding ofﬁ  cer.
When asked, he refused to give 
a sample of his breath, FHP said. 
While being taken to jail, Con-
nelly complained of neck pain and 
breathing problems, according to the report, and he banged his head 
against the back of his seat in the 
patrol car as he gasped for air.
When Alachua Fire Rescue ar-
rived, Connelly would not cooper-
ate with the paramedics, according 
to the report. FHP and paramedics 
had to pull him from the back of 
the patrol car. 
He was taken to North Florida 
Regional Medical Center before he 
was taken to the Alachua County Jail.
Police arrested Connelly on 
charges of driving under the inﬂ  u-
ence and causing damage. He was 
released from jail on his own re-
cognizance Monday afternoon.
Connelly could not be reached 
for comment.
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  F H P :  M a n  a r r e s t e d  a f t e r  c r a s h i n g  c a r  i n t o  u t i l i t y  p o l e
By Cristina Sarmiento
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor wants to address the lack 
of diversity in science and math ﬁ  elds. 
Juan Gilbert, UF’s Banks Preeminence 
Chair in Engineering, teamed up with Jer-
lando Jackson, the chief research scientist at 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, to create 
a pilot program to ﬁ  x the lack of diversity in 
science, technology, engineering and math, 
or STEM, ﬁ  elds. The program, run through 
the National Science Foundation, will allow 
Gilbert and Jackson to study how different 
doctoral programs are successful for minority 
students, Gilbert said. 
The two will study practices from the na-
tional GEM Fellowships program, the Florida 
McKnight Doctoral Fellowship and Southern 
Regional Boards Doctoral Scholar Program. 
While the U.S. has a large population, 
including those in minority groups, STEM 
ﬁ e l d s  d o n ’ t  r e ﬂ e c t  t h e  d i v e r s i t y  o f  t h e  c o u n -
try, especially from the black and Latino 
communities, Gilbert said. 
“We had this idea of doing something that 
we knew hadn’t been done,” he said. “We have an advantage, but we haven’t used that 
advantage.”
Gilbert said he hopes to see the research 
bring forward strategies that can be adopt-
ed nationally in underrepresented minority 
groups.
“Research tells us that when you bring 
people together from different backgrounds, 
different experiences, as you increase diver-
sity, you get better ideas,” he said.
Mauricio Medina, a UF civil engineering 
junior, said cultural exchanges between peo-
ple bring about innovative ideas. He said by 
encouraging those in minority groups to go 
into STEM, the ﬁ  elds will grow overall. 
“There’s a lot of talent out there, and it’s 
not just in the U.S., it’s everywhere,” the 
23-year-old said.
Gilbert said while the U.S. has a large 
quantity of people in STEM ﬁ  elds, he would 
like to increase the quality of their success.  
“It’s going to help students be more suc-
cessful in graduate programs to get their 
Ph.D.,” Gilbert said. “That’s the ultimate 
goal, to make this environment more invit-
ing, successful in the path to the Ph.D.” UF professor helps create 
program to diversify STEM 
By Klarizza Aggabao
Alligator Contributing Writer
“Pokémon Go” players will encoun-
ter more water-type creatures throughout 
Gainesville as part of a ﬁ  rst ever worldwide 
water festival.
“Pokémon Go” is a location-based game 
on iPhones and Androids that launched in 
July where players can travel to catch Poke-
mon, train and battle their virtual creatures in 
gyms, which are also based on location. 
Because certain Pokemon are found ac-
cording to environments such as bodies of 
water and recreation areas, it’s hard to ﬁ  nd 
water-type Pokemon in Gainesville, which is 
considered landlocked.
Players have until Wednesday to take ad-
vantage of catching more water Pokemon.
Tillissa Barcia, 33, an administrator of the 
Facebook group, Pokémon Go: Gainesville, 
said she noticed a spike in people posting on 
the group page about more water Pokemon 
appearing across Gainesville. 
“People were super excited, especially 
(because) you can catch lapras now,” Barcia 
said. 
Lapras is considered a rare Pokemon to 
ﬁ n d  a n d  c a t c h  o n  t h e  a p p .   Kristina Svatos, 21, downloaded the app 
when it was released in July. She plays the 
game whenever she walks around campus 
and rides the bus. She is aware of the water 
festival and said she will try to catch any wa-
ter Pokemon that appear. 
“I’ve gotten a ton of magikarps every-
where, and I’ve actually gotten a couple 
squirtles,” the UF public health  junior said.
Even with the ﬂ  ow of water Pokemon pop-
ping up more frequently, Barcia and Svatos 
are hoping to catch a rarer type of Pokemon: 
a shiny magikarp. 
“We’re so sad because we’ve caught so 
many magikarps,” Barcia said. “That’s an aw-
ful lot of magikarps and no shinies.”
Ken Humphlett, 51, an avid player calls 
the game a “kind of obsession.” He currently 
plays the game with two of his sons.  
The UF alumnus and his sons went to 
Jacksonville last Friday to take advantage of 
the water festival. 
“We caught a gyarados in Jacksonville, the 
three of us together,” Humphlett said. “And 
that was super exciting to see that cause I’ve 
never seen one in the wild before.” 
In the future, he plans to evolve the shiny 
magikarp into a red gyarados, which is one of 
the most powerful water Pokemon, he said. Local ‘Pokémon Go’ players 
take part in water festivalTUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
TROMBONE TUNES
Photos by Charles Hatcher
Alligator Staff
The UF Trombone Choir performs one of six songs at their show on Monday evening. The choir is a part 
of the School of Music in the UF College of Arts.
A member of the UF Trombone Choir plays a trombone during a show at First Presbyterian Church of Gainesville, located at 106 SW Third St.
The UF Trombone Choir performs on Monday night. Five of the six songs performed by the choir were conducted by Erik Shinn, the choir’s music director.TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
3 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-25 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
A PRIVATE COTTAGE 2BR/1BA
Fenced, hardwood, W/D hk-ups, 4 minutes 
to Everything. SW area. $1200/mo. 352-260-
2209    3-29-17-5-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles 
from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
University Club Apts Summer Sublet 1/1 in 4/4, M or F, (3 F roommates). Fully furn, w/d, great location, 24 hr study lounge & gym. No sublet fees, rent incl WiFi, cable, utils, ame-nities. Call now for more info 954-494-5759    3-29-5-3.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 BicyclesTUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Sun Country Sports
is hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14
Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Research A ssistant position
requires Javascript, AWS,  
email 1 page resume to science@mammacare.org    3-30-17-10-14
Looking for someone to drive a beverage cart at our golf course selling beers, soda & snacks to our golfers. PT, hours flexible. Easy, fun, casual work environment. Salary + tips. 352-807-3176 ask for Doc.    2-28-5-14
GatorWell Seeking Health Hut Wellness Educators GatorWell HPS is seeking current UF students to work at the GatorWell Health Hut, to begin Summer 2017.  For more infor-
mation go to jobs.ufl.edu & search requisition # 501769.      3-30-17-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
**GatorWell is Hiring!**
Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Like some
benefit golf
tournaments
6 Baby bed
10 Deadly snakes in
hieroglyphics
14 “It matters to me”
15 Italian money
until 2002
16 Tackle box item17 *Seeks shelter19 Samoa’s capital20 “__ side are you
on?”
21 Not up to snuff23 Pierced ear part26 Actor Jared28 Conceals in
one’s hand
29 Tactical
advancements
31 Like slugs33 Jellyfish bites34 Thrilla in Manila
boxer
35 Stop stalling37 Wee one
38 *Bob Marley
togetherness
classic
41 Mag mogul often
seen in pj’s
43 Letters in
geometry
45 Duracell size46 Ritzy spread48 Ivory and Coast,
for two
50 Tom Brady,
notably
51 Garden bug
53 Airline to Tel
Aviv
55 “The Piano”
actress Paquin
56 “Just my luck!”58 La Scala solos60 Prime for picking61 Stationery that
may include a
company logo ...or what the endsof answers to thestarred clues canbe?
66 “Got it”
67 Dole (out)68 Chill-inducing69 Camera part70 Toboggan, e.g.71 Second or sixth
presidentDOWN
1 Mango discard
2 Color TV pioneer3 Sturdy furniture
wood
4 “Is it a go for
tonight?”
5 Sports jersey
material
6 Wraps up7 Fastener for Rosie
8 Rancor
9 Pub crawl stops
10 Montgomery’s
home
11 *System that gets
goods to
customers
12 Trojan War king
13 Chars18 Reason for a
heating bill spike
22 Wire service org.
23 Most wanted __24 In the lead25 *Major golf
tournament won
five times byTom Watson
27 Nobel Institute city
30 Back in the day32 Habitually
misrepresent
one’s true self34 Pie __ mode
36 Wyoming’s Grand
__ National Park
39 Lighten (up)40 Md. winter hours42 Spanakopita
cheese
44 Evening affairs47 Seriously
vandalized
49 USN bigwig50 Took different
paths51 Month with
showers
52 Composure54 Foamy pick-me-
up
57 Tall shade trees59 Environs62 Slender 
swimmer
63 Pitcher’s stat64 Asset at the
archery range
65 __ Moines
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/28/1703/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, March 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Cameron Newbauer was announced as Florida's new women's basketball coach on Monday. Read the story, pg. 16 Raiders relocating to Las Vegas 
NFL owners voted on Monday to allow the Oakland Raiders to relocate to 
Las Vegas because by a margin of 31-1. The Raiders could begin playing there as early as 2019 with their lease in Oakland set to expire after 2018. Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: KeVaughn Allen, Chris Chiozza, Devin Robinson and Kasey Hill celebrate Chiozza's game-winning three-pointer vs. Wisconsin on Friday at Madison Square 
Garden in New York City. Florida was knocked out of the NCAA T ournament on Sunday by South Carolina in the Elite Eight. 
A Run 
to Remember
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With Sunday’s 77-70 loss to South Carolina in the Elite 
Eight of the NCAA Tournament, the careers of four Gators 
came to a close: seniors Kasey Hill, Justin Leon, Canyon Barry 
and Schuyler Rimmer. 
Kasey Hill:
It was never supposed to end like this.
Hill came to Florida in 2013 as the No. 2 point guard out 
of high school and a McDonald’s All-American. Prior to his 
freshman year at UF, Hill was projected to play one year in college and then bolt to the NBA. Four years later, Hill played his last game in a Florida uniform on Sunday, totaling 11 
points and four turnovers.
“He came in with a lot of expectations and a lot of unre-
alistic stuff the fans wanted from him,” junior guard Chris 
Chiozza said. “He didn’t live up to those expectations, but he 
never let that bother him.”
Where Hill will go next is unclear. He’s not projected to be 
taken in either round of the 2017 NBA draft. Hill hasn’t had 
a great career at UF, but a markedly improved senior season — where he averaged 9.7 points, 4.5 assists and 1.7 steals — 
should at least earn him a chance to play on a professional 
Summer League or D-League team. 
It isn’t likely that he eventually earns a slot on an NBA 
team, but you never know. Much like the route of plenty of 
talented college players, a career in Europe, Asia or Australia 
is also a viable option for Hill. Next moves for 
Florida's seniors
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
In 2014, Kasey Hill was celebrating a trip to the Final 
Four.
In 2017, he watched South Carolina do the same. 
But despite falling one game short of where he went 
as a freshman, Hill said Florida was better this year. 
“This is the best team I’ve been a part of,” Hill, a 
senior, said. 
While the loss stung as South Carolina’s bench 
stormed the court, in the moments after, the Gators 
realized how improbable a run to the Elite Eight was in the ﬁ  rst place. 
“I know a lot of people didn’t think, didn’t have us 
going this far at the beginning of the season, probably didn’t even have us making the tournament,” senior for-ward Justin Leon said. 
After weighing the results from Florida’s last three 
seasons, it’s not hard to see why the team felt doubted. 
In 2014-15, Hill’s sophomore season, the Gators ﬁ  n-
ished with a 16-17 record. They didn’t play in a post-season tournament for the ﬁ  rst time in 17 years. UF coaching legend Billy Donovan, who led Florida to two 
NCAA Championships in 2006 and 2007, left Gainesville 
to coach in the NBA.
In 2015-16, Hill’s junior season, UF hired Mike White 
from Louisiana Tech.
White’s Gators ﬁ  nished with a 21-15 record and an 
NIT appearance, a slight uptick from Donovan’s last  Recapping UF's 
2016-17 season
By almost every account, the Florida basketball 
team exceeded expectations this season — only 9.3 percent of NCAA Tournament brackets ﬁ  lled 
out on ESPN.com had Florida advancing to the 
Elite Eight.
It’s safe to say almost no one saw this season coming.But even though they fell just one game short of ad-
vancing to the Final Four, the last year will be remem-bered as one of resurgence for UF’s basketball program. One that established coach Mike White as a worthy suc-cessor to Billy Donovan. One that brought Florida bas-ketball back into the annual March conversation.
But now that the season has ended, let’s take a look 
back, ranking the top three most memorable moments from the 2016-17 year.
1. Chiozza’s buzzer beater UF basketball’s top 3 
memorable moments
SEE SENIORS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
TAKING CARE 
OF BUSINESS
352-226-3879
tcbautosinc.com
2027 NE 27th AveAUTO SALES
by appointment only
Email cover letter and resume to Trisha Carey · tcarey@alligator.orgHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTED
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production 
department, and coordinate newspaper design 
and layout with content from student editors. Requirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Expereience working with students is a plus.
• Must have expereience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring. 
Schedule changes during summer semester.Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great work atmosphere. Modest salary. 
No phone calls, please. Must be willing to begin working late April or early May.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Growing up in Missoula, Mon-
tana, Jim McElwain fantasized 
about two sporting events he — one day — hoped to attend.
The ﬁ  rst on that checklist was 
going to the Rose Bowl, a dream McElwain fulﬁ  lled in 2010 as Ala-bama’s offensive coordinator when the Crimson Tide defeated Texas for a national championship.
The other venue on that list was 
Madison Square Garden, which Florida’s head coach ﬁ  nally got to visit for the ﬁ  rst time on Sunday during the Elite Eight.While UF’s men’s basketball 
team wasn’t able to get past South Carolina and punch its ticket to the Final Four in Phoenix, McEl-wain said attending the game was still a gratifying experience, noting the historic moments that have oc-curred inside the arena.
“Being able to go see The Garden and fulﬁ  lling that childhood dream, man, I could have stayed in there forever,” he said. “I mean, wow. It was just amazing.”
But now, with Florida’s Spring 
game quickly approaching in fewer than two weeks, McElwain’s atten-tion is back to football.
At a press conference Monday 
morning, Florida’s coach empha-sized the importance staying disci-plined in the red zone.
The Gators ranked 126 out of 
128 teams in the FBS last season in red zone offense, putting points on the board only 71.4 percent of the time. McElwain said some of those issues have lingered into the Spring, stating he was “disappointed” with 
an interception thrown during a 
team scrimmage on Friday.
“That can’t happen. Absolutely 
not,” he said. “Good play from the defense, but obviously we can’t… take away points.”
 Florida’s secondary does not 
lack conﬁ  dence
One unit McElwain did express 
praise for on Monday was Florida’s 
secondary.
Following the departures of de-
fensive backs Jalen Tabor, Quin-
cy Wilson and Marcus Maye for the NFL draft, Duke Dawson and Chauncey Gardner will spend the majority of their time at cornerback this season.
While Dawson and Gardner both 
primarily played at nickelback and safety in 2016, McElwain said he expects their transition to corner to be smooth due to their belief in themselves.
“I think a lot of the conﬁ  dence 
part comes from the legacy that has been built at the secondary position here,” McElwain said. “There’s a high expectation on how to play, and yet, they embrace that.”
 UF to host annual Pro DayFlorida’s Pro Day will also take 
place today. The annual event is an opportunity for UF’s draft-eligible 
players to display their abilities in 
front of NFL coaches, executives 
and scouts.
While eight players from Flori-
da went to the draft combine ear-lier this month, other NFL hopefuls such as quarterback Austin Appleby and wide receiver Chris Thompson will hope to make a splash in their 
only opportunity to perform drills in 
front of pro evaluators.
“I’m excited just to see those 
guys (perform),” said safety Marcell 
Harris, who opted to return to Flor-
ida for his senior season. “A lot of 
my friends who I came in with are 
going to be out there… I saw them 
on TV at the combine, and now I can see them in person.”
Players who will be eligible for 
the draft next Spring will have an 
opportunity as well to talk with NFL 
organizations, such as Harris and defensive lineman Khairi Clark.
“It’s very exciting, man,” Clark 
said. “That’s something that’s a life-
long dream.”
                          @dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org F ootball turns focus to red zone oﬀ  ense, pass defense
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
From left: Defensive backs Quincy Wilson and Jalen T abor converse during Florida’s 54-16 loss to 
Alabama in the SEC Championship Game on Dec. 3.
TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
year. 
In 2016-17, Florida finished with a 27-9 
record. UF made the Elite Eight. White won 
SEC Coach of the Year. The Gators beat SEC powerhouse Kentucky by 22 points. 
Before the season, some suspected Flori-
da would improve. Reporters picked Florida 
to finish second in the conference standings. 
But not many predicted Florida would 
make the Sweet 16, let alone win in the 
Sweet 16. 
Florida’s season was complicated by ren-
ovations to the O’Connell Center which kept UF on the road or at neutral sites for its first 11 games. 
Florida’s season got more complicated af-
ter starting center John Egbunu tore his ACL against Auburn amid a nine-game winning streak. 
Florida’s season got even more complicat-
ed when the team lost three of its last four games before the NCAA Tournament, lead-ing White to tell reporters that his team had undoubtedly lost momentum.Multiple analysts picked No. 4 seed UF to 
be the first team upset in the NCAA Tourna-ment. But Florida beat East Tennessee State. 
Then Virginia.Then Wisconsin. Then, against South Carolina, the Gators 
beat themselves, fumbling passes, picking up fouls and hemorrhaging a seven-point halftime lead. 
The Gators were forced to watch the 
Gamecocks — a team they had beat by 15 about a month earlier — swipe the glory Florida wanted. 
Florida won’t shower in Gatorade. It 
won’t cut down the nets. It won’t do any 
more locker room dances. 
But UF can celebrate topping expectations 
and taking the school on a memorable March 
run for the first time since Kasey Hill's first 
season in orange and blue.
“Happy we got the university back into 
the tournament," Hill said, "and that we 
made it this far.” 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgBASEKTBALL,  from pg13Florida finishes the season with 
a 27-9 record, its best since 2014Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Justin Leon (right) greets fans after landing in 
Gainesville on Sunday. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White fist bumps fans after UF's plane landed in Gainesville following Florida's loss to South Carolina in the Elite Eight on Sunday. 
Wherever he ends up, Hill will be 
looked upon as a solid passer and a 
tenacious defender.
Justin Leon:Leon is the personification of 
toughness.
He only received one college offer 
out of high school — to a junior col-lege in Illinois — and on Sunday, he was the Gators’ leading scorer in the Elite Eight.
He only played two seasons at Florida, but UF fans will certainly miss his workhorse attitude on the court.
Compared to the other seniors on 
this list, Leon might actually have the best chance of earning an NBA roster spot.
After countless hours in the gym 
last summer, Leon turned himself into one of Florida’s most accurate shooters from long distance. Al-though he averaged only 7.4 points 
per game, Leon shot almost 40 per-
cent from beyond the arc.
A career in Europe or Australia 
is more likely, but Leon’s ability to shoot the ball, coupled with his abil-ity to hustle and defend could make him a viable option off the bench in 
the NBA for years to come. 
He certainly has the work ethic to 
get him there.
“He doesn’t overthink stuff,” UF 
coach Mike White said. “He’s a guy that does his job consistently. He’s a 
guy that blocks out every time a shot goes up, and when his feet are set, he doesn’t think about it. He shoots it.”
Canyon Barry:Barry has a lot of options.He’s a talented scorer — he aver-aged 11.4 points per game his lone season at UF. And, he’s brilliant. In addition to his basketball duties, 
Barry was also responsible for main-
taining a 4.0 GPA — in nuclear en-gineering. 
Barry probably won’t see NBA 
playing time, but a career in some 
other part of the globe is entirely pos-
sible.
However, if basketball doesn’t 
work out, Barry will always have a 
master’s in engineering to fall back 
on.Schuyler Rimmer:Rimmer didn’t play much.In his two seasons at Florida, he 
scored a total of 62 points. He aver-aged 5.3 minutes per game this sea-son.
He probably won’t go on to play 
professional basketball, but Rimmer 
can take what he's learned at UF 
to a coaching role or use his major in political science to work in the government. 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
SENIORS,  from pg13Canyon Barry could use his 4.0 GPA in nuclear engineering
The most famous shot of the season. 
The basket that broke Twitter and Chris Chiozza’s cell phone with hundreds of 
text messages afterward. The moment 
that will likely be framed somewhere in Florida’s basketball facility in the com-ing months.
This moment is No. 1.With four seconds left in Florida’s 
Sweet 16 matchup with Wisconsin, Chi-ozza caught an out-of-bounds pass, ran the length of the floor and lofted up a 
shot from behind the three-point line for 
the win. Highlights of the game’s finish ran on TV all night and the next day. It donned the front covers of newspapers, 
tabloids and websites. 
And it further justified UF’s spot 
among the nation’s elite.
2. Beating Kentucky at homeFor Florida basketball fans, few 
things in sports feel better than beating 
Kentucky.
But the Gators didn’t just beat the 
Wildcats.
They embarrassed them.The final score: 88-66, Florida.The Feb. 4 win capped UF’s fourth 
straight 20-point win against a Power Five conference school and marked Florida’s first win against Kentucky in 
its last five tries.
Florida went on to win its next five 
games, playing off a high that can only 
be achieved by blowing out one of the 
best teams in the country.
3. Opening-round win in NCAA 
Tourney
In a way, this was as defining a mo-
ment as any during the 2016-17 season.
It was White’s first NCAA Tourna-
ment game as a head coach. It was also 
every Florida player’s — except senior 
Kasey Hill — first tournament game.
And it was UF’s first appearance in 
the big dance since Donovan left. 
How would the Gators respond? 
Were they for real? Or would they be only good enough to end up on the 
wrong side of an East Tennessee State Cinderella story?
Turns out, Florida was good enough. 
They beat the Bucs by 15 points and earned the right to play ACC foe Virginia.
But it also allowed the Gators to take 
a deep breath — at least they didn’t lose 
in the first round.
And, perhaps, it allowed White to 
take one more step out from Donovan’s 
shadow.COLUMN,  from pg1316   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2017
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Cameron Newbauer was named Florida’s 
new women’s basketball head coach on Mon-
day, UF’s athletic department announced. 
Newbauer comes to Florida from Belmont 
University in Nashville, Tennessee, where he 
was responsible for leading the Bruins to back-
to-back NCAA Tournament appearances. But the situation he inherits at Florida isn’t ideal. 
The Gators are coming off a 15-16 record 
and no postseason play. The Gators also lost their top scorer and All-SEC First Team mem-ber Ronni Williams to graduation. However, Newbauer isn’t deterred by the potential strug-gles of his new job. 
“This opportunity is going to take a lot of 
hard work and diligence,” he said in a release, “but it’s one I’m proud to have in front of me.”Newbauer’s hiring was 
a ﬁ  rst for Florida athletics director Scott Stricklin. The 
freshman AD, who took 
over for Jeremy Foley in No-vember, had never made a head coaching hire at UF be-
fore. He has, however, had great luck hiring women’s basketball coaches before. 
During his tenure as Mississippi State’s AD, 
Stricklin hired Vic Schaefer to coach the wom-
en’s basketball program. Schaefer brought 
MSU from perennial SEC cellar dweller to a Final Four appearance in his ﬁ  fth season. And Stricklin believes that Newbauer can be just as successful.
“I share his conﬁ  dence” Stricklin said in a 
release, “that he can build Florida women’s basketball into a conference and national con-tender.”
The hiring came three weeks after Florida 
ﬁ  red former women’s basketball coach Aman-
da Butler. Butler coached in Gainesville for 10 
seasons, but none of her teams made it past the second round of the NCAA Tournament, and that’s if they made it at all. 
UF only made the dance in four of her 10 
seasons. 
But Kenny Kallina, the director of the Flor-
ida Girls Basketball travel team and former coach of current UF players Sydney Searcy and 
Delicia Washington, believes that Newbauer 
has the potential to slowly build Florida into a contender.
Kallina has known Newbauer since he was 
an assistant coach at Georgia from 2007-12. During that time, Newbauer recruited in Flor-ida and got to know Kallina as a result. 
“I think Cam is gonna do a good job,” Kal-lina said. “I mean, you think of (Washington coach) Mike Neighbors and Vic Schaefer, they’re in their ﬁ  rst contracts going to the Final 
Four. I’m not sure that’s the type of result we’re 
gonna see, but it’s gonna be more consistent and at a higher level than it was with Butler.”
Kallina believes that one area where New-
bauer should improve the team is with recruit-ing high-character players, which he believes was a problem under Butler. It’s also some-thing Kallina said Newbauer has done in his previous stops as an assistant coach at Georgia 
and Louisville, as well as at Belmont. 
“I think Cam is gonna steer away from those 
kinds of kids,” Kallina said, “and is really gon-
na help the program in that way.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org  Florida names new coach for women’s basketball team  
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Not much has come easy away 
from McKethan Stadium for the Gators. 
Florida’s season has been rid-
dled with one-run losses and crush-
ing defeats away from Gainesville at 
the hands of lower-tier in-state pro-grams like Jacksonville and UCF. And who could forget about being swept at Auburn for the ﬁ  rst time in 30 years?
Florida (16-9), which owns a 
dismal 1-6 record on the road this year, even had trouble putting away Stetson in a 9-8 win that UF nearly choked away in extra innings. 
But the problem isn’t as obvious 
as you might think.
Sure, the Gators haven’t hit as 
well in ballparks not situated on Stadium Road. But it’s been the ele-ment that has carried the team thus far that has failed it on the road: pitching. 
Florida pitchers own a minus-
cule 2.06 ERA at McKethan Stadium this season, a number that skyrock-ets to 6.22 outside of Gainesville. 
There’s good news for UF, however. 
When No. 8 Florida squares off 
against No. 12 Florida State tonight 
at 6, the two teams will take the 
ﬁ  eld in a neutral site at the Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville. 
And for Florida, domination 
doesn’t begin to describe the last two years against its rival. 
Not only has UF held FSU score-
less the last three times they’ve played and currently hold an im-
pressive streak of 31 scoreless in-
nings, but the Gators are 6-1 against the Seminoles since the start of last season. Florida State has scored just sev-
en total runs over those last seven games, good for an average of one 
run per game. 
Florida even turned to a quartet 
of freshmen pitchers in Nate Brown, 
Kirby McMullen, Andrew Baker and Tyler Dyson to piece together a shutout two weeks ago against FSU.
“It was a good ol’ pitchers duel,” 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said af-ter the win. “We had some young 
freshmen step up and grow up.”
Tonight, another freshman will 
get his chance to do the same. 
Right-hander Garrett Milchin will make his ﬁ  rst career start. The 
lanky 6-foot-5, 210-pounder is 0-1 and owns a 2.45 ERA in 7.1 innings 
this year. 
Milchin’s start will come just a 
game after Florida’s bullpen con-
tributed to blowing a ﬁ  ve-run lead Sunday against LSU. 
“Those are games, I would 
think, with our pitching staff when you have a ﬁ  ve-run lead it should be enough,” O’Sullivan said after 
the loss. 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org 
 UF baseball team’s pitching staﬀ   struggling on the roadNewbauer
