We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 97 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
Florida basketball plays
Georgia tonight
The Gators are on a four-game win streak, pg. 13
UF students to turn bugs into art
They will use 3-D printers to compete for a prize, pg. 5
UF to open South Florida oﬃ   ce today
It aims to draw in prospective students from the area, pg. 3FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A 23-year-old Gainesville man 
died after a car ran him over and dragged him several feet at The  Ridge at Gainesville apartments Saturday, Gainesville Police said.
At about 11:55 p.m., Malik T. 
Davis stumbled as he walked in 
between two parked cars in the 
complex’s parking lot, located at 
3718 SW 24th Ave., and fell onto 
the ground, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Garrett Coker, a 19-year-old 
Santa Fe College engineering freshman, then drove over Davis, 
dragging him and trapping him 
underneath his car. Bystanders tried to free Davis 
before responding ofﬁ  cers ar-rived, Tobias said. Gainesville 
Fire Rescue personnel and GPD 
ofﬁ  cers then lifted the vehicle and 
pulled him out. 
GFR personnel attempted to treat Davis, who was then taken 
to UF Health Shands Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
Tobias said a trafﬁ  c homicide 
investigation is still ongoing. Cok-
er was not arrested, according to 
the Alachua County Jail.   Man dies after Santa Fe student runs him over
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
TRAINING DAY 
New hires with the Gainesville Fire Rescue participate in an extrication training day on Northeast Waldo Road near Gainesville Fire Rescue Station 3 on Monday. A ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter who helped lead the training day, Colby Perryman, said the new hires will graduate from their training on Thursday and become probationary ﬁ  remen. “We’re teaching them the Gainesville way, ” Perryman said.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
In his nearly eight decades of 
life, former Gainesville mayor Per-ry McGriff Jr. seemed to leave his mark wherever he went.
On the baseball diamond at 
UF, the outﬁ  elder became the ﬁ  rst Gator baseball player to become a two-time All-American, eventually earning an induction into the UF Athletic Hall of Fame.
In the local 
political scene, he served ﬁ  ve years as a com-missioner be-
fore becoming the mayor, staying on from 1970 to 1971. 
Then,  two decades removed 
from City Hall, he joined the Flori-da House of Representatives.
On Thursday, the father of ﬁ  ve 
died from complications with a heart surgery. He was 79.McGriff is survived by his wife, 
Noel, and children.
Upon hearing the news, com-
munity members, including cur-rent Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, mourned the loss.
“There will be a void,” Poe 
said of McGriff’s death. “Perry has 
made such an impact that he’s re-
ally a part of the fabric of our com-
munity — and always will be.”
Poe said he met McGriff about 
30 years ago when Poe’s family ﬁ  rst moved to Gainesville. An in-surance agent at the time, McGriff insured Poe’s ﬁ  rst car when he turned 16. When it was time for Poe to buy his own house, McGriff insured that, too.
When Poe began his career in  City mourns former 
mayor, UF athlete
CAMPUS
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
To Carey Cavanaugh, U.S.-
Russian relations are like a Rolling 
Stones song.
Cavanaugh, a former U.S. Am-
bassador with the Department of State who worked out of Washing-ton and Moscow, compared the re-lationship between the two nations to the song “You Can’t Always 
Get What You Want.” On Monday 
night, he addressed a crowd of 
about 50 at UF’s Grifﬁ  n-Floyd Hall to discuss the countries’ current re-lationship.
Cavanaugh, a UF alumnus who 
graduated in 1976 with a bach-elor’s degree in Russian studies, was invited as part of the Global Challenges Speaker Series.
Cavanaugh said while there’s 
been debate about the U.S. having tumultous relations with Russia, the focus should be on compromise and pragmatic approaches.
“It isn’t good relations or bad 
relations, we want to have a rela-tionship with Russia, but what we really need is a productive relation-ship,” Cavanaugh said. 
President Donald Trump’s ap-
parent praise of Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin, as well as reports of Russian hacking dur-ing the presidential election, made his talk relevant, Cavanaugh said.
Ingrid Kleespies, a UF Rus-
sian studies professor, said U.S.-Russian relations have been tense since 2014 with Russia’s annexa-tion of Crimea, located in Ukraine. She said she doesn’t condone 
Russia’s actions, but thinks it’s good for students to get a broader understanding of the country’s choices.
“I certainly think that American 
press and media can have a ten-dency to kind of paint the Russians as the bad guys,” Kleespies said. “It would be great to have Ameri-cans think about the motivations behind Russia’s actions.”
 Former US ambassador talks US-Russian relations at UFSEE OBITUARY,  PAGE 4
SEE RUSSIA,  PAGE 4McGriff
“He mentored me, he advised 
me, always there to take my 
phone call with anything 
that I wanted to run by him.”
Lauren Poe
Gainesville Mayor
He spoke to a crowd of about 50 WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Diversity Project
The Diversity Project will ex-
plore issues with a focus on race and class through storytelling and theater. It will provide a safe 
environment to share your ex-
periences at UF. Your story may be incorporated into a live theat-rical/multimedia performance, which will become a platform for discussion and possible so-lutions. Students are invited to join today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2102 
and Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 
6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3310. Faculty and staff are in-vited Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2315. Please contact Jeffery Pufahl at JeffPuf@ufl.edu for more information.
Kickin’ it with Cupid  by  RUB 
Entertainment With Valentine’s Day around the corner, the Reitz Union Board Entertainment is hav-ing an event in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom today from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Stop by to make gifts for the special people in 
your life.
Visiting artist lecture series with 
Sam Harvey
The UF School of Art + Art History and H.O.T. Clay is proud to present visiting art-ist Sam Harvey as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artist 
Lecture Series on Wednesday at 
6 p.m. in the Fine Arts Building C, Room 201. The event is free and open to the public. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Fulbright PechaKucha
“PechaKucha” is a presenta-tion format in which 20 slides 
are shown for 20 seconds each. 
Networking and refreshments will follow the presentations Thursday at 5:30 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. Please RSVP at eventbrite.com.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show 
Local applied arts company 
CerridwenWorks, with as-sistance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is produc-ing an empowerment art show and performance-art showcase for the semiannual anti-violence 
arts festival “Red Soul Days.” 
The show will be Friday and Saturday at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. A public display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on both days from noon to 6 p.m. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu 
to apply or for more informa-
tion.
A Valentine’s night at the mu-
seum Spend Valentine’s Day eve-ning at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia. The museum is open from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m. for this event. 
Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The fee is $30 per person or $50 per couple. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Pre-registration is required. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/
grid/valentine-event or call 352-
273-2061.
Kristian Black: being person of 
color in medicineKristian Black, a second year medical student at the University of Michigan and admissions am-bassador at the University of 
Michigan Medical School, will 
speak about how he navigates his identity as a black man with-in a top-ten university on Feb. 14 from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Multicultural & Diversity Affairs Classroom in the Reitz Union, Room 2201. The event will be hosted by Asian Pacific Islander 
American (APIA) Affairs and 
Black Affairs.
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
UF graduate and MythBusterDr. Tracy Fanara, contestant on “MythBusters: The Search” and UF engineering graduate, will speak at the Marston Science 
Library on Feb. 16 at 2 p.m. in 
Room L136 (Marston first floor). Dr. Fanara, who is a scientist at the Mote Marine Laboratory, will speak on her MythBusters experience, research on Florida beaches and waterways and storm chasing. The iSTEAM Speaker Series presents topics of 
interest to students majoring in 
science, technology, engineer-ing, arts and/or math.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealthIsabel Moreira will explore the relationship between wealth, 
almsgiving and perceptions of 
the afterlife in Europe between the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take place Feb. 16 at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion visit humanities-center@ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.An evening of Finnish folk mu-
sicAlachua County Library 
District presents “Vellamo: An 
Evening of Finnish Folk Music” on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library. The per-forming and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English as well as their native language, Finnish, and also perform tradi-
tional ballads from the Finnish 
and Scandinavian folk tradi-tions. This free musical program will be in Meeting Room A at the Headquarters Library, locat-ed at 401 E. University Ave. For more information about library programs, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.
Words on canvas: the Harn writ-
ing competitionWrite yourself into the art mu-seum. Words on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing com-petition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by 
art. Winning contestants will be 
awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The deadline to enter is March 17. 
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3How can you practice af-
firmative consent? Learn 
some strategies from Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign Phase 3. Check it out at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/ or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-
4452 for more information and 
to request materials.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 97
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  81° LOW  61°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Summer Jarro 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The second annual Innovation 
Week started Monday with as many 
as four events planned each day. 
Events will be held from today to Thursday and will be centered around the theme “discover, be in-spired, play and connect.” Innova-
tion week, hosted by UF’s Innova-
tion Academy, connects students with businesses and entrepreneurs, said Xavier Richardson, an IA aca-demic adviser.“This week is really dedicated to 
Gators celebrating in the innovative spirit,” Richardson said.
All events are free for anyone at-
tending, he said. Last Spring, there were 18 events, while this year there are 32 events, with 21 being held af-ter Monday.  “We are really proud this year,” 
he said. “Last year we started with humble beginnings.”
Richardson said the week also 
includes four speakers every night. 
The speakers will talk at different 
places on campus from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m, today to Thursday. 
On Monday, Charlotte Kesl, a co-
ordinator for 352Creates, a UF Health community initiative combining arts and medicine, spoke with students outside of the Reitz Union. Kesl 
told students about the organization 
while they drew colorful drawings of mandalas on white paper.
“We are just encouraging people 
to have a moment of creativity,” Kesl said. “We have a lot of similar ideas related to the Innovation Acad-emy and Innovation Week. So today we are supporting it.”  
 Innovation Week kicks oﬀ  , oﬀ  ers more than 30 events 
Events are from today to Thursday 
By Bailey LeFever
Alligator Contributing Writer
Five hours south of campus, UF’s latest 
satellite ofﬁ  ce aims to connect prospective 
students in South Florida with the university.
Dubbed UF Coral Gables, the center will 
serve as a place to hold university events, connect alumni and draw in potential students, said UF spokesperson Margot Winick. It will open ofﬁ  cially today.”
“With 20,000 alumni that hail from 
Miami and 4,000 students that are currently enrolled in the University of Florida, Miami Dade County seems like a great location for doing more outreach,” Winick said.
UF President Kent Fuchs, Provost Joe 
Glover and Student Body President Susan Webster gathered Monday at the ofﬁ  ce with alumni to dedicate the space.
The center will allow students from to 
learn more about the university without visiting the main campus and allow alumni to support their alma mater, Winick said.“This is an opportunity to rally alumni 
and establish more of a presence in South Florida so that people can learn more about what the University of Florida offers 
everyone in the state and beyond,” she said.
The idea for centers like this came 
about six or seven years ago, said Mark 
Trowbridge, the CEO and president of Coral Gables Chamber of Commerce and a UF 
alumnus.
UF is 250 miles away from Miami, so the 
4,000-square-foot center will remind the 
city’s residents of the university’s impact in the community, Trowbridge said. 
Peter Cooper, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance 
and economics junior, said an admissions outlet in South Florida could have been helpful to him when he applied to the university. 
“If I had a chance to talk to representatives 
from the school and learn more about the school without having to take the trip up to Gainesville, then yeah, I think that would have been super helpful,” he said.  UF opens South Florida oﬃ   ce
By Erica Werner
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON — Democrats announced 
plans Monday to hold the Senate ﬂ  oor 
around the clock to protest Republicans’ push to conﬁ  rm President Donald Trump’s Cabinet picks.
Democrats’ effort got underway as the 
Senate headed toward a showdown vote Tuesday on Education Secretary nominee Betsy DeVos, a wealthy GOP donor who has advocated for alternatives to public educa-tion. DeVos’ nomination has drawn particu-larly ﬁ  erce opposition from teachers’ unions and others. Two GOP senators have an-nounced plans to oppose her, which could 
result in a 50-50 Senate vote Tuesday. That 
would leave Vice President Mike Pence in the role of tie-breaker, something that has never happened with a Cabinet nominee in the Senate’s history, according to the Senate historian.
“Democrats will hold the ﬂ  oor for the next 24 hours until the ﬁ  nal vote to do ev-erything we can to persuade just one more Republican to join us,” Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., said on the ﬂ  oor Monday. “And I strongly encourage people across the coun-
try to join us — to double down on your ad-
vocacy — and to keep making your voices heard for these last 24 hours.”
Republicans accused Democrats of slow-
walking qualiﬁ  ed nominees to placate liberal base voters who still haven’t come to terms with Trump’s election.
“It seems this gridlock and opposition 
has far less to do with the nominees actu-
ally before us than the man who nominated 
them,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. “Enough is enough.”
Republicans also hope to conﬁ  rm a series 
of other divisive nominees this week: Ala-bama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions as attor-ney general, GOP Rep. Tom Price of Georgia as secretary of Health and Human Services and ﬁ  nancier Steven Mnuchin as Treasury 
secretary. Senate in round-the-clock 
session to conﬁ  rm Trump pick4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
Christine Le Jeune, a 34-year-old 
UF anthropology doctoral student, 
said she attended the talk to hear from an expert. Though Le Jeune studied for a year in Moscow, she said she wanted more information about the topic.
“I really wanted to use the op-
portunity to catch up and hear from someone who is basically, in my opinion, living history,” said Le Jeune.
For Cavanaugh, being back at 
UF is a way to inspire students. As an undergraduate, he said he decided to pursue diplomatic re-lations after hearing from guest speakers in the field. Now, over 40 years later, Cavanaugh said he hopes to have the same impact on students.
“That was part of what captured 
me at the University of Florida and led to a career with the govern-ment,” Cavanaugh said. “There are jobs that are fascinating, where you can make a real contribution, make a difference not only in the people you’re working with, their lives, but even potentially the state of the nation and the world.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
RUSSIA,  from pg.1His time in Gainesville 
inspired his career choice
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
UF alumnus and former Foreign Service Officer Carey Cavanaugh spoke to prospective U.S. State 
Department students on Monday. Alec Werthman, 21, a UF biochemistry and molecular biology senior, said he initially attended the lecture to satisfy a class requirement, but realized it helped him with career choices. 
politics, McGriff acted as his mentor.
“He was incredibly supportive,” 
Poe said. “He mentored me, he ad-vised me, always there to take my phone call with anything that I want-ed to run by him.”
Between 2000 and 2002, while continuing to work at McGriff-Wil-
liams Insurance and contributing to 
various charities in Alachua County, McGriff served as a Democrat in the Florida House of Representatives. 
“Perry was always a leader in his 
manner, not in a pious or conceited way, just by example,” said longtime friend David Flagg.
Flagg, 79, attended Gainesville High School with McGriff. The two 
became friends in third grade.
Flagg said he remembers fre-
quently biking to Glen Springs with 
McGriff, where they’d pay 25 cents 
to swim before making the long trek 
home.
During his senior year at 
Gainesville High School, McGriff 
and his then-girlfriend Noel were the homecoming king and queen. They 
had been together ever since, Flagg 
said.
Flagg said he last spoke to McG-
riff two days before his death. They 
talked about aging closer to 80, as 
well as McGriff’s latest purchase: a 
royal blue truck with Gator-orange stripes on the side.
McGriff, just one month older than Flagg, would have been 80 this 
June.
“He set a great example, and he 
should be remembered for his stew-
ardship and doing what was best 
for the University of Florida and 
Gainesville,” Flagg said. 
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgOBITUARY,  from pg.1McGriff led a prolific life — full of sports, politics and charityTHE DEPARTMENT ALSO HAS 
THE LARGEST GROUP OF BLACK 
FACULTY. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Among the nation’s public universities, UF 
has the largest enrollment for black Ph.D. stu-
dents in the computer science department. 
The department has been leading in black 
Ph.D. student enrollment for years, said Juan Gilbert, the Banks preeminence chair in engi-neering in the department of Computer & Infor-mation Science & Engineering. Gilbert looked at information from the Computing Research Association and American Society for Engi-neering Education to determine UF’s standing. 
Out of 148 black Ph.D. students in this field 
across the nation, 16 students, or 10 percent of the total of black students, are at UF, Gilbert said. 
Gilbert said more diversity only helps the 
university. “When you have a diverse group of people 
at the table coming up with ideas, you get bet-ter solutions,” Gilbert said.
Gilbert said with five black faculty mem-
bers, the department has the nation’s largest group of black faculty among similar areas. Gilbert was the first black student to receive a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Cincinnati.
Jessica Jones, a 27-year-old Ph.D. candi-
date in human-centered computing, said as an African-American woman, she sees herself re-flected in the faculty.
“I think the department is pretty diverse, 
not just racially and ethnically, but I believe there are a lot of women in the department,” Jones said. “You don’t see that often in STEM. So as an African-American woman, I feel rep-resented as a student, and then when I look at the faculty, I see representation of myself on the faculty.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF leads nation in black computer science Ph.D. students
Molly Vossler / Alligator Staff
About 50 community members listened to six City Commission candidates at a forum on Monday night.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Of seven City Commission can-
didates, only one was endorsed by 
the African American Accountabil-ity Alliance.
After a two-hourlong Q&A ses-
sion Monday night, the majority of the alliance decided and voted  that city commission incumbent Helen Warren best represents the group’s 
values, and therefore will receive 
its endorsement. 
At the forum, which was held 
at the Alachua County Health De-partment, located at 224 SE 24 St., about 50 community mem-bers listened to candidates answer questions about homelessness, diversity and economic growth in Gainesville.
Monday was the third of seven 
candidate forums leading to the city’s regular election March 14.
The candidates include Jenn 
Powell and Helen Warren for at-
large positions, Sheryl Eddie and 
Harvey Ward for District 2 and Da-vid Isaiah Arreola and Craig Carter for District 3.
“Your actions will certainly dic-
tate whether you receive support tonight and in the future,” said Larry McDaniel, the moderator, as he addressed the panel. 
Warren, a UF alumna, currently 
serves as Gainesville’s city com-missioner at-large. At the forum, she said her experience with local government makes her the most suitable person for the job.
“It’s a great vote of confidence 
from this community,” Warren of the endorsement. “They believe I’m going to walk the walk and not just talk about it.”
Warren said if re-elected, she 
will use educational services and volunteer efforts to address aca-demic achievement in impover-ished pockets of the city.
Warren concluded by saying lo-
cal politicians can’t fix everything — it’s the entire community’s job to incite change.
“People come to us expecting 
us to solve many, many different problems,” she said. “City govern-ment cannot solve every problem.” City Commission incumbent 
endorsed by community groupTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
By Isabella Sorresso
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF students may have an easier 
time ﬁ  nding jobs as consumers 
become more comfortable 
spending money. 
A study by the UF Bureau of Economic and Business Research 
shows that Floridians’ consumer 
sentiment, or how conﬁ  dent 
people are in the economy, has steadily increased from December to January after jumping seven points from November to 
December, said Christopher McCarty, the bureau’s director.
UF economics professor Mark 
Rush said students should take notice of the rising numbers. If 
consumer sentiment continues to increase, it could mean more job opportunities.
“If people do indeed follow 
through and do indeed feel more conﬁ  dent and spend more money, that might mean a few more jobs available for students at UF, both while they are students and then once they graduate,” Rush said.
McCarty said the study, 
consisting of a ﬁ  ve-question survey, takes data from 500 randomly selected Floridians. The ﬁ  nal scores range from two to 150, 
with higher numbers equating to 
consumers feeling more positive about the economy.Scores jumped from 90.3 in 
November to 97.3 in December, while January had a score of 
97.8, he said. However, it’s hard 
to determine whether rates will continue to rise.
“In general, I think people 
are encouraged by what they’re 
seeing in the economy at the 
moment,” McCarty said. 
 Consumer conﬁ  dence in economy on the rise in Florida
It could lead to more jobs
Courtesy to the Alligator
A micro-CT image of a scanned jumping spider, called Anasaitis canosa. It was scanned by one of 
six undergraduates working with the UF Insects Live competition.
By Megan Kovach 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Six UF students are combing 
through campus for art — in the form of ants and spiders.
“We then freeze them, put them 
in alcohol and wait a few hours to put them in the scanner,” said Ediel Dominguez, a UF art senior who is helping put together a contest for stu-dents to turn ants and spiders into mas-
terpieces.
The Insects Live competition, orga-
nized by faculty members Lisa Taylor 
and Andrea Lucky of UF’s entomology 
and nematology department, asks par-
ticipants to use the students’ 3-D insect 
scans as the basis for their art. A panel of judges will select a winner for a $500 cash prize, and after the event, an ex-hibit will feature all of the students art-work, said Dominguez, a team member working to put together the contest. 
To create the art, students will have 
access to scans of the ants and spiders uploaded onto Canvas, said Domin-guez, 26. When registered, students will have access to $15 worth of free 3-D printing at Marston Science Library to bring the creatures to life. 
“It’s really nice because you never have to pay for the contest, and all of the software you need are free through the university,” Dominguez said. “All 
of the really expensive software, which 
is usually around thousands of dollars, 
is completely free for students to use.”
Taylor, who collaborated with 
Lucky to begin this contest, said it’s 
open to students of all majors. Submis-
sions are due on March 15. 
“We are inspired by the diversity of 
talent and resources on UF’s campus,” Taylor said. “This contest is just a place 
where students can put this talent to 
work.”
To teach students how to use the 
3-D printers and scanners necessary to 
make the artwork, Taylor and Lucky 
employed a team of six undergradu-
ates, who are also collecting the in-
sects.
Taylor said that the contest chal-
lenges students to combine art, science and technology. She hopes that the best submissions can somehow be turned into permanent artwork on campus.
“With all of the brilliant and cre-
ative students on campus, we have no idea what this artwork will look like,” Taylor said. “We are eager to see what students come up with.”  UF students create art with bugs, competing for $500 The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Football is football.
Politics is politics.
Sunday night was one of the most watched events on 
American television. No, not “Harry Potter” weekend. It was the 51st Super Bowl. Now, this heralded Ameri-can tradition comes around once a year, and people gather for parties with seven-layer dip and a six-pack 
of beer. Some people follow their teams with a fanatic devo-tion. Others look at the two playing and pick the one that they like the most (or hate the least). A few non-sports people who still want in on the excitement double up on their friends’ opinions. Whatever the method of picking teams, more than a hundred million Americans gathered around their televisions for a night of high-stakes rivalry and entertaining commentary.
In November, a nation of voters gathered around their tele-
visions for a night of high-stakes rivalry and not-as-entertain-
ing commentary as the 2016 presidential election results were 
announced.
Many on social media are comparing these two highly 
watched events as almost allegories of each other. There are comparisons to the New England Patriots and President Donald Trump, the Alabama Falcons and Hillary Clinton, the mapped out projections of each events’ wins, the “surprise” comeback, and so on and so on.
We’re going to compare what these events had in common.
Number one, they were each watched by millions of people.
And that’s it.That’s right, folks. Believe it or not, any parallels between 
this sporting event and the political event of last November are complete stretches, hyped up by social media. There’s no real link between the Patriots and Trump or the Falcons and Clin-ton other than the fact that the Patriots won and the Falcons didn’t, even though the Falcons were the “fan favorite” — you could make the same argument about Season 2 of American 
Idol, comparing Clay Aiken to Clinton and Ruben Studdard to 
Trump.
If you’re going to make a comparison, it has to hold up. 
If you want to talk about how people were rooting for the underdog, then comparing the Falcons to Clinton doesn’t make sense, since if anything, Trump was the outsider, the dark horse, and Clinton was the established “team,” much like the Patriots. So that comparison falls flat. If you want to talk about how the win was a “surprise” that no one expected, 
that doesn’t work either. Ask any political analyst, and he or 
she will tell you that Trump’s win was evident within the first hour — he was winning in places that were traditionally blue. During the game, however, the Patriots were losing badly until a surprise turn around in the end. There are more comparisons people are making, from the areas of the country each team represents (for the record, New England historically votes Democrat), to how teams should’ve let other players in. 
These comparisons are stretches at best, and they are an-
noying and for goodness sakes, don’t try to make a joke about how if Bernie Sanders had been the quarterback, the Falcons could’ve won. 
The fact is football is football. Politics is politics. It’s become increasingly common to compare current events 
and politics to entertainment and sports — things that don’t necessarily warrant a comparison. Yes, no two spheres exist without overlap, and athletes and entertainers are allowed to be politically active. Politicians are allowed to have favorite 
sports teams and movies. But making continued, overdone 
comparisons between two highly popular things — especially comparisons that are weak and full of holes — trivializes the problem and doesn’t do much in the end.After receiving an act of kindness, pass it on
About two weeks ago, I was just driving 
around and taking care of a few errands with a friend of mine. We were coming 
from Publix, and I forgot to get some-
thing, so we stopped by the little CVS 
on 13th street. As we got out of the car, we both heard a hissing noise and soon discerned it was 
my tire. I ran over a nail. My tire was flat, and 
it was the largest blemish in the face of a great day.
I finally had time last week to take care of my 
flat tire Wednesday. I mean, I had the spare on, 
but I had to take care of getting a new, used tire. I was 
getting a used tire because I was in the process of selling that heap of junk. 
Anyway, I called a few used tire places to find the 
cheapest price on a tire and the replacement fee. I eventu-ally ended up at some place near downtown, walked in, and then what was once a nuisance turned into a great experience.
I walked into this place called Tire Outlet, located at 
1320 N. Main St., annoyed that I had to get a new tire and pay for this car I was trying to sell. I asked the guy at the desk how long it would take for me to get out of here, because I had class at 2 p.m. and didn’t have time to stay. 
He told me he was backed up with some people, and it’d 
be 40 minutes before he could look at my car. So, I sat down and tried to do a bit of reading. Before I could even settle into my seat and begin reading, the owner (guy at the desk) came in and told me, “Don’t take out your wal-let, man,” as he reached for a handshake. 
At first, in my head I was like, “What in the 
hell is this guy on?” and I think my face emu-
lated my thoughts. To comfort my shocked 
face, he continued, “We were able to fix your flat, and you’re good to go. No need to charge you for a used tire when you have one.”  I 
asked him if he was serious and he said, 
“Yeah. Don’t worry about it. Just pass it on.” 
I’ve fixed a flat before, and it’s not a labori-
ous job, especially when you have professional tools. It’s both depressing and reviving to see 
how such a simple, easy act of kindness made me feel. Before I went to this place, my feelings were as heavy and arduous as it was to read my intro to this column: Everything just seemed to be a nuisance in every manner. 
After I left, I was ready to make gifts for every person I 
know, donate to charity and apologize to everyone I’d ever wronged in the past. Now, of course I have obliga-tions and a very skimpy wallet, so I wasn’t able to do all those things, but it’s how I felt.
If there’s really anything that you could take away 
from this, just listen to the words this kind man spoke: “Just pass it on.” If a homeless person comes up to you asking for anything you can pass on, then offer to buy 
him or her a meal. If you know your significant other is 
struggling with an assignment or studying way too long for an upcoming test, then buy him or her some flowers or ice cream (ice cream is much, much better). Or even if you have problems with your parents but know they miss 
you to death, just give them a phone call. Do something 
nice for a stranger, a family member or a friend. Just do something nice for another person, and I promise you, both of you will feel great after the deed has been done. 
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORJames 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.org
“Everything just seemed to be 
a nuisance in every manner.”TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
It’s obvious the past few months have 
initiated our transition into a sort of new normal. Several of my fellow col-umnists have addressed it, and I have spent plenty of time trying to come to 
terms with it. More often than not, this “coming to terms” has taken the form of scrolling through Facebook and grow-ing increasingly anxious with every news article, political post and comment war I encounter. Unsurprisingly, this unhealthy routine has left me not only emotionally drained but also stressed as hell. So as a result, I’ve found myself at a crossroad where I’m forced to choose either my san-ity or the responsibility of being an in-formed citizen — but not both.  
The timing of all this happens to coin-
cide with my ﬁ  nal semester at UF, which 
sprinkles even more stress on top of my 
pre-existing unease. However, this turned out to be a stroke of luck, as my new schedule came with a class with one cen-tral assignment: Write in a journal every 
day. The class meets once a week, with the majority of it spent sharing 
public interpretations of our pri-vate writings and discussing the 
journaling process as a form of 
self-discovery. The majority of our work remains hidden in the journals, unseen by anyone other 
than ourselves. I’ve always had 
a difﬁ  cult relationship with jour-nal writing. I loved it but only seemed to write anything in the rare instances when I was feeling 
utterly overwhelmed by emotion. What re-
sulted was a journal ﬁ  lled with a lot of ter-rible poetry about boys who had wronged me — and not a whole lot of introspection. 
Taking a class that forced me to stay 
committed to journal writing gave me the ideal outlet to sort through a lot of incom-prehensible events of personal and global signiﬁ  cance. That’s not to say that I’ve come up with solutions for any of them but merely reﬂ  ected on them and evaluated them from 
as many different perspectives 
as I can. In the end, a lot of the conﬂ  ict I see on social media stems from reactionary argu-
ments. Taking the time to reﬂ  ect 
on whatever it is that’s frustrat-ing you results in a deeper un-derstanding that translates into a type of power.
Journal writing has a bit of a learning 
curve. At ﬁ  rst, there’s the overwhelming sense that writing incessantly about your thoughts is incredibly narcissistic — on the 
other hand, so is writing an opinions col-
umn and assuming people care what you 
think.
You can’t help but feel strange when 
you break out the journal in public. As the 24 students in my class discussed the journaling process, our desks arranged in a haphazard circle, this was one of the chief 
concerns. To give you a more speciﬁ  c im-
pression of the class’s tone, my professor’s response was, “Perhaps you should write in your journal, and explore why you care 
so much about what others think.”
More than anything else, journal writing 
can feel like a complete waste of time in a 
world constantly threatened by tangible, insurmountable problems. With time and 
practice comes the realization that keeping 
a journal is a form of self-care, which ulti-mately results in your increased ability to tackle those problems head-on. Additional-
ly, taking the time to regularly consider the 
world around you, despite how incompre-hensible it often seems, quickly becomes a habit. And I truly believe we could all beneﬁ  t from a more contemplative world.  
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English se-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.
Venting through journal writing and coming to terms with the 'new normal’Column
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
"Journal writing has a bit of a learning curve."8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsTHE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER TIME 
THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE THE 
BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  Zeller
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER TIME 
THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE THE 
BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper MonkeyINNOVATION 
HUB EXPANDING 
Photos by Alan Alvarez
Alligator Staff
UF’s Innovation Hub, located at 747 
SW 2nd Ave., is in its second phase of construction, which includes a 50,000-square-foot expansion. The roughly $17 million addition is funded by  the director of the Innovation Hub,  said startup companies can apply for a space inside the Innovation Hub, which would allow them to grow until they “graduate” and move on to the real world. “UF technology is changing the world and making a difference in people’s lives, ” Muir said.
The lobby of the Innovation Hub is decorated with a three-story 
photo panel called “Inspiration’s Journey. ” The photos display innovations that have hatched out of this hub. Jane Muir, the director of the Innovation Hub since its inception, said the space bridges the gap between UF and the Gainesville community.
Jane Muir, the director of the Innovation Hub, talks about the people who have visited the Innovation Hub. The pictured wall is dedicated to labeling home countries of visitors who have come to take a tour of the Innovation Hub.A view of the expansion in the Innovation Hub from inside the current building. The expansion of the Innovation Hub, coined Phase 2, is funded through a grant and UF contributions.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Cecilia Lemus
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Saturday, ballgowns and 
tuxedos will take over a down-
town venue to raise money for 
the furriest of Gainesville resi-dents — those housed at the Ala-
chua County Humane Society.
For $25, guests to the humane society’s fundraiser, to be held at the Wooly from 7 p.m. to 11 
p.m., can enjoy music, appetiz-ers, dessert and a photo booth, 
said Kaitlyn McGowan, the op-
erations manager at Feathr, a lo-cal marketing startup hosting the 
event. So far, 200 tickets have 
been sold.
“If this winter ball goes well, this definitely opens up a new 
door to how we can help the 
community,” she said. 
The event will be held at 20 
N. Main St.
Margot DeConna, the director 
of development for the humane 
society, said she is always trying 
to find new ways to draw atten-tion to animals in need. Over the weekend, for in-
stance, a photo-shoot fundraiser was hosted that catered to dogs, 
cats and every other kind of pet. 
For $100, pet owners received professional portraits of their 
animals.
The eccentric fundraisers are 
not for naught. In 2017, the hu-mane society is striving to make 
Gainesville a no-kill community.
Diane Twitchell, a customer 
success manager for Feathr and volunteer at the humane society, said an event like this can make a difference, and all the money raised will go toward saving 
more animals.
As someone who has fostered 
more than 25 dogs — 15 dogs in 2016 — Twitchell said she knows 
how badly Gainesville pets need to be adopted. Informing the 
public about their plight is just 
as important, she added.
“It’s not only good to raise 
money but to raise awareness as well,” Twitchell said.  After pet-themed photo shoot, shelter to host ball
County humane society raising money Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Newberry Mayor Bill Conrad gives a speech during the 
groundbreaking of the city of Newberry’s Fire Station Expansion and Renovation Project.
THE CONSTRUCTION WILL 
COST $630,000.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
Inside Newberry’s only ﬁ  re sta-
tion, a pinned-up blanket is the only 
thing separating the cot of a female ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter from those of her male colleagues.
But Monday, city ofﬁ  cials, ﬁ  re-
ﬁ  ghters and developers lined up behind 10 gold shovels and broke ground on the soon-to-be-expanded Fire Station 28, located at 310 NW 250th St.
The $630,000 overhaul — the 
station’s ﬁ  rst in at least four decades — will provide ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters private 
living quarters, ofﬁ  ces and a bay 
for an ambulance Newberry hopes to soon have, said Mike New, the Newberry city manager.
Fireﬁ  ghters will remain at the 
station during renovations.
Construction on the station, 
which is a part of the city’s capital improvement plan, will take about six months, he said. This is the ﬁ  rst time the station will be renovated since its debut in the 1960s.
“In its day, it was state of the 
art,” New said. “Standards have changed.”
The renovations will improve the 
living space for on-duty ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters and will also include an updated ﬁ  tness and recreation center, New said.
“The ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters are thrilled 
about it,” he said.
Mayor Bill Conrad said the ad-
dition of a nearby ambulance will make the ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters’ jobs much easier. Conrad said the station will 
soon have an ambulance bay and 
two additional staff members for  each shift in hopes that Alachua County Fire Rescue will allow them to keep an ambulance close by, he said.
“This is a busy town,” he said. 
“At 3 in the morning, we would like the ambulance here instead of in 
Gainesville.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  Newberry ﬁ  re station to undergo 
renovations, ﬁ  rst since the 1960s
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Newly discovered chemicals may fight colon cancer
UF researchers have discovered chemical compounds that 
can help ﬁ  ght colon cancer.
A team of eight researchers from UF’s College of Pharmacy 
recently discovered the compounds using “novel ring distortion 
strategy,” which uses the low-cost organic molecule yohimbine 
to produce 70 different compounds, said Robert Huigens, the study’s principal researcher and a UF medicinal chemistry as-sistant professor.  
Out of six promising compounds produced, researchers dis-
covered that some can reduce inﬂ  ammation, while another dis-
covery, named Y7g, could help ﬁ  ght cancerous colon cells by 
preventing them from spreading. 
“If we were able to show, through pre-clinical trials that this 
compound could be developed into something, then this could 
be big,” Huigens said.
Using the novel ring distortion method helps improve the 
diversity of compound screening libraries, which are vital for developing and testing pharmaceutical drugs, he said. 
Generally, molecular diversity in a library yields more suc-
cessful results for drug producers. 
Although the potential applications of these compounds 
may sound promising, the study is just the ﬁ  rst step in the long process of developing a suitable pharmaceutical drug, he said. 
“The current drugs we have do a good job for certain scenar-
ios, but there are deﬁ  nitely improvements to be made,” he said.
-Harrison O’KeefeUF researchers grow diverse crops in Florida
UF researchers with the Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences have found that vegetables not typically used in Amer-ican cooking can easily be grown in Florida.
The study, which was published in November 2016, tested 
28 vegetables in climates across the east coast to see if they 
could be grown in America. People from minority groups who use these vegetables were found to buy two to three times more 
than white people — and they were prepared to pay higher pric-
es, said Gene McAvoy, an institute vegetable extension agent 
who worked on the study.
The crops, which included vegetables like amaranth and 
ginger, are highly adaptable, and some were grown in Florida with little difﬁ  culty, he said.
“It’s now common to incorporate these vegetables into our 
lives,” he said. “For example, 15 years ago, not many people knew what kale was. Now it’s peaked as a vegetable.”
McAvoy said the team, made up of 17 researchers, made 
random phone interviews across four states to determine how 
many vegetables consumers buy and how much they’re spend-
ing on them. 
South Asian, East Asian, Afro-Caribbean and Hispanic-
American respondents all bought more vegetables than their white counterparts overall.
McAvoy said the increased consumption of these vegetables 
may cause a boom in these crops, possibly reducing prices.
- Kyle ChambersNew strain of disease blamed for famine found 
UF researchers have made developments in a devastat-
ing potato-and-tomato-targeting pathogen responsible for 
the death of millions of crops around the world. 
Phytophthora infestans, commonly referred to as the 
“late blight” or “potato blight,” was responsible for the 
Irish potato famine of the 1840s. Today, the disease shows 
up in parts of Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, said Erica Goss, a UF assistant professor in plant pathology who led the study.
“It starts in the leaves, turning them brown or black,” 
she said. “Then it can move into the stem and choke the plant until dead or move into the potato and make it un-safe for consumption.”
Goss said the disease costs farmers about $6 billion a 
year for treating and replacing affected crops.
She led the team that discovered the pathogen’s origin 
in Toluca, Mexico, in 2014. Now Goss and her team have found new strains in Michoacan, Mexico.
Because the two strains are genetically different, it was 
harder to identify the Michoacan version as the Phytoph-thora pathogen, Goss said. Now that the strain is detected, Goss is conﬁ  dent in research developing to possibly ﬁ  nd a cure.
“The more we raise awareness of the pathogen, the 
more research will be done to end it,” she said.
- Davio RodriguezTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. $375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
2-8-17-20-2
HOUSE - 3BR/2BA, w/ fireplace off SW 13th 
St, near IHOP restaurant. 3627 SW 13th St. Big front yard, fenced backyard, close to Vet School, UF & downtown. $950/mo. Call or text 352-2327-2931, email: nghe@msn.com    2-10-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-10-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Good Times Outdoors, Inc. is seeking an
individual for promoting our brands on a
variety of Social media sites and forums.
The position is negotiable as to time
spent onsite and time spent remotely.
The successful candidate will have
experience and knowledge in social media
marketing, a knowledge of outdoor sports, 
boating, hunting and firearms is preferable. 
Interested parties may contact by email at:
doug@core15.com
2-8-17-6-14
***PROMOTERS WANTED***
Seeking health conscious entrepreneurs to 
build an at-home business and sales team 
in a global health and wellness company.
*Must be ready to start now!
*Money Motivated
*Willing to learn
No experience required,
full training provided, flexible hours.
Call 815-557-3209 serious inquiries only.
2-9-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Gownlike Roman
garment
6 Like teary eyes
11 Sculpted
physique, briefly
14 Sky blue
15 Asteroids game
company
16 Actor Vigoda
17 Zero or one19 Japanese carp20 Trunk of the body21 Orchard rows
23 Internet
destination
27 Good
Housekeeping
publisher since1911
28 Pilot Earhart
29 Leaning-on-the-
horn sounds
31 Hawk’s claw
32 Wintry temps33 NYG rival in the
NFC East
36 Pinball excess37 Mountain bleaters
38 Ball-and-mallet
game
39 Foxy
40 Business
convention
handouts
41 Clods42 __ Wilson, who
played Sam in“Casablanca”
44 Peaceful45 Sports venues47 Original star of
“Star Trek”
48 Bedding49 Promised51 __ de Triomphe52 July 14, in France58 Golf ball holder59 Hodgepodges60 Eat away at61 Lith. or Est., once62 Graphs’
horizontal
reference lines
63 “Billions & Billions”
author Carl
DOWN
1 Indent key
2 Submachine gun
named for itsdesigner
3 Religious school
teacher, perhaps
4 Lyricist Gershwin5 Free from doubt
6 Madrid mother7 Bluesman
Redding
8 “Othello” schemer9 __ Lanka
10 Giggles
11 Thirteen
12 Thin woodwinds13 Jefferson,
religiously
18 Lotus position
discipline
22 “The Facts of
Life” actressCharlotte
23 Light bulb units24 Online letters25 Performer who
shimmies and
uses finger
cymbals
26 “The __
thickens!”
27 Brinker on skates29 Like little,
glittering eyes ...and a phonetichint to thispuzzle’s fourlongest answers
30 “I’m game”
32 Ripped
34 Without
assistance35 Hard luck case37 Big party38 Shipping route
terminus
40 Vending machine
feature
41 Subordinate
church officials
43 Poem of praise44 “Where the
Sidewalk Ends”poet Silverstein
45 Blind strips46 Goodyear
products
47 Ham go-with49 Powerful 
engine
50 Oklahoma 
native
53 In the style of54 Historical period55 Pooch56 Oral health org.57 Japanese
currency
By Gerry Wildenberg©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/07/1702/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, February 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
22 Tickets
2 Joe Bonamassa concert tix
Feb 22 Fla Theater Jax. Cost $252, sell for 
$200. 352-481-2841     2-9-3-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Saturday Feb 4th noonEARTH FARE PARKING LOT
Small Black Notebook Journal
with personal writing call Tom or Mary 952 474 6495 REWARD NO QUESTIONS     2-8-2-25
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Amanda O'Leary hopes her team's youngest members can lead UF to success, pg. 14UF point guard Chris Chiozza wins conference honor
After a triple-double against Missouri on Thursday and a quality perfor-
mance against Kentucky on Saturday, junior Chris Chiozza was named SEC Player of the Week, the conference announced on Monday. If you were there, listening to John Calipari speak, if 
you heard the pure annoyance, the dulled frustration in his voice, you would have realized it.
“Maybe,” Calipari, coach of then-No. 8 Kentucky, 
said, sulking in his chair after his team lost by 22 
points to Florida, “we’ve hit bottom.”
Never before has the depth of one man’s despair been 
the cause for so many others’ elation. But if you’re a Flor-ida Gators fan, that’s how Saturday felt. 
Sweet. Vengeful. Sweet, sweet vengeance.Finally. At ﬁ  rst, you felt a glimmer of hope as Florida took the 
ﬁ  rst lead of the game. You felt satisfaction as Kentucky guard and future NBA lottery pick Malik Monk went scoreless in the ﬁ  rst half. The excitement built at halftime. The Gators were leading by eight points … then seven … no, 11 … no, wait, 17 … what? 22? Against Kentucky?
Finally.The Gators are back.Finally.UF last won national titles in 2006 and 2007, when 
former coach Billy Donovan called Gainesville home and the Gators’ roster was brimming with future NBA play-ers. UF last made the NCAA Tournament in 2014, when Donovan led a not-as-talented but veteran-laden team to the Final Four. Florida basketball fans last felt hope nearly two years after that, when Florida beat then-No. 9 West Virginia at home in Mike White’s ﬁ  rst season as coach.
But Saturday night was something different. Saturday 
night was Kentucky, in all its crowd-drawing prowess, the college basketball powerhouse that gets all the ﬁ  ve-star recruits. Year after year, they never have to rebuild. They only reload. They only have to bring in a new set of the nation’s top high school players as the door shuts behind the last set, off to make millions in the NBA.
And Florida beat them. No, wait. Embarrassed them.And so it was, the ﬁ  rst Saturday of February in the 
year 2017, that the Florida Gators basketball program returned from the dead. Saturday’s victory was not just monumental because it added another tally to UF’s win column in the thick of SEC competition, but because of what it meant for potential recruits. Because of what it meant for the trust in White’s plan. For legitimacy to be placed back in a program that ﬁ  ve-star recruits were once forced to consider, if for no other reason than because Florida consistently won. Because they played the best teams and they won.
But, careful. This is not a proclamation that Florida has 
solved all of its issues, that the work is done, that it will win the national title this year and the next and become the next collegiate dynasty. Of course not. It’s OK to say it: The 
Gators are back
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike White gestures during Florida's 22-point win over Kentucky on Saturday in the O'Connell Center. With Kentucky in the past, White is focused on making sure his team's high level of play continues. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
It was the end of a long film session.
After a harrowing loss at home to Vanderbilt a few 
days earlier, the Gators were enduring the low point of their season. 
Then Mike White spoke up.
“Guys, let’s pull up a chair and let’s just talk,” he 
said. “I’m going to give you some of my thoughts, and I 
want you to give some of your thoughts. 
“We’re not going to leave this room until we get some 
stuff figured out.”
The players took turns.John Egbunu, Devin Robinson, Canyon Barry and 
Kasey Hill all shared what was on their hearts and minds.
Missed defensive assignments, a lack of communica-
tion and poor rebounding.
“It was just a meeting where things needed to be 
said,” Hill remarked. “And we said them.”
That sobering meeting was just over two weeks ago.What it’s produced: a four-game win streak, three 
30-point wins and a beatdown of then-No. 8 Kentucky for the signature win of the Mike White era at Florida.
“They just recommitted to each other, to play for each 
other,” White said. “(They) recommitted to rebound and defend at the highest level possible.”
Against the Wildcats, the No. 17 Gators (18-5, 8-2 
SEC) turned a weakness into a strength.
Florida, ranked eighth in the conference in rebound-
ing, dominated the SEC’s top rebounding team, 54-29, on the glass, including 17 offensive boards.
Devin Robinson used his 6-foot-8 frame and athletic 
ability to snatch nine rebounds. Kevarrius Hayes and Egbunu combined for 12 boards and kept UK’s glass-cleaner Bam Adebayo boxed out.
Most surprising, though, was the play of 6-foot guard 
Chris Chiozza, who had nine rebounds and nine assists. Chiozza also had 12 rebounds during his triple-double 
performance against Missouri on Thursday.
“He’s a starter who’s coming off the bench,” White 
said of Chiozza. “For him to be rebounding the ball 
the way he’s rebounding it with his size shows you the toughness that he’s playing with, the tenacity that he’s playing with.
“He’s making really good decisions.” No. 17 Gators have Georgia on their minds
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 14
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
All ﬁ  ve players on the court for 
Florida sprinted to the defensive end of the ﬂ  oor, positioned themselves into a 2-3 zone and ﬁ  ercely slapped the hardwood of the O’Connell Center 
with the palms of their hands.It’s an in-game ritual the Gators 
do on every big defensive possession. 
But it wasn't enough on Monday night when UF took on Ole Miss.
Playing in front of a crowd of 
1,219, the Rebels defeated Florida, 84-75, to keep UF winless at home in SEC competition this season.
Senior forward Ronni Williams 
led the Gators (11-12, 2-8 SEC) with 21 points on 8-of-16 shooting from the ﬁ  eld to continue her exceptional stretch of play since conference com-petition began. Junior forward Haley 
Lorenzen and freshman guard Delicia 
Washington also totaled 14 points apiece in the loss.
For Ole Miss (15-8, 4-6 SEC), Woes continue for UF women's b asketball
SEE W.BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
As the Florida lacrosse team walked off the ﬁ  eld 
on Jan. 14 in Bradenton, it had a lot to be proud of.
It turned a 19-8 defeat against the U.S. National 
Team a year earlier into a 20-19 battle, where two 
goals within the last ﬁ  ve minutes helped propel the 
U.S. to a hard-fought win. 
But when coach Amanda O’Leary met with re-
porters on Monday, it wasn’t just her team’s perfor-
mance that she praised.
It was how her team responded to being “thrown 
into the ﬁ  re” against some of the best lacrosse play-
ers in the country. 
Even more than that, it was how the freshmen 
handled it.
Midﬁ  elder Brianna Harris 
scored a goal against the U.S., at-
tacker Madisyn Kittell received 
signiﬁ  cant playing time and de-fender Cara Trombetta was the only freshman to earn a start. 
“We’re seeing that freshman 
class really come along,” O’Leary said. “They’re really going to be a big part of our success this season 
and how we develop throughout the season.”
But as a new class is coming in, an older one is 
gearing up for its ﬁ  nal season at Florida.
Most of the senior class got either extensive play-
ing time as freshmen or got the start right away, 
something O’Leary hopes to replicate with this 
year’s class. And now, four years later, their senior leadership 
will be immeasurable to the success of the team. The senior class features two of Florida’s top ﬁ  ve returning scorers on offense and two of Florida’s all-time leaders in ground balls and caused turnovers.  
“A bunch of them came in and started as fresh-
men, so they knew what we were asking of them 
really early on,” O’Leary said. “And you can always 
count on them for their competitiveness, whether it’s drills, singing or dancing. It’s really competitive all around. It’s a competitive class. Great leadership there.”
The impact of the freshmen and the leadership of 
the seniors will be tested immediately, as the Gators open their season on Saturday against top-ranked defending champion North Carolina. 
UNC is one of ﬁ  ve top-10 teams Florida will play 
this season, continuing a trend of more difﬁ  cult non-conference play since 2012. 
The Gators will also face No. 2 Maryland, No. 4 
Southern California, No. 5 Syracuse and No. 6 Stony Brook. Florida defeated UNC, Syracuse and Stony Brook last season by a combined score of 34-31.
The only team the Gators couldn’t overcome was 
Maryland, which they lost to, 14-4. 
“We’re getting at it early and often, and I think 
that’s important for our team, because come confer-ence (play), it really sets us up to be in a good posi-tion,” O’Leary said. 
“We want to play the best in order to be the 
best.” 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  Florida lacrosse looking for freshmen 
to make impact against No. 1 UNC
Harris
This is merely a start. The very beginning. Af-
ter two years of failing to qualify for the NCAA 
Tournament, this is the Gators staring up from the base of Everest, ready for a climb back to the top. But at least now they have a rope and a pick and a backpack full of conﬁ  dence.
This proved that White is building something 
at UF, and that, yes, he will be the coach to get the Gators there. Four-straight wins by at least 20 points against Power Five conference schools will do that to you. A 22-point win over Kentucky, which the Gators hadn’t beaten in its last ﬁ  ve matchups, will do that to you.
Calipari’s despair will do that to you.The Gators are back, Florida fans. Finally.Ian Cohen is a sports writer. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays. Contact him at icohen@alliga-tor.org, and follow him on Twitter @icohenb. COLUMN,  from pg13However, with the Gators’ first 
meeting with Kentucky now be-
hind them, it’s time to shift their 
attention to the next obstacle in their path — a tough Georgia team led by forward Yante Maten and guard J.J. Frazier.
There’s no time to celebrate the 
Kentucky win anymore.
“This game is going to be very, 
very difficult,” said White, whose 
team scraped out a narrow over-
time victory against the Bulldogs on Jan. 14. 
“We were so fortunate to beat 
Georgia at home …. The fact that you just beat Kentucky has absolutely nothing to do with moving forward.”
White added that tonight’s 
game in Athens at 7 will be a test to the Gators’ maturity and cul-ture. And with the added pressure of a tight SEC race in mind (UF is tied for second with the Wildcats behind South Carolina), every re-maining game has major confer-ence and national implications.
“We just have to keep in mind 
that they almost beat us here at home, and (now) we have to go to their place,” Hill said of the Bull-dogs. “We’ll be ready to play.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org BASKEBALL,  from pg13Florida plays Georgia 
tonight at 7 in Athens
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza dribbles during Florida's win over Missouri on Thursday 
in the O'Connell Center. Chiozza was named SEC Player of the Week.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Calm, composed and poised: 
This is how coach Roland Thorn-
qvist described his team Monday 
after its trying victory over No. 3 
Pepperdine on Saturday. 
“You’ve gotta be able to play 
at a high level under pressure. 
Our players have been in those 
situations many, many times and 
that’s sort of the good part of hav-
ing a veteran team,” Thornqvist 
said. “In general, we talk a lot about performing at the end of sets, going deep into sets, being able to be lucid and think your 
way through it, and I think that’s 
what I saw at Pepperdine.”
The depth and experience of this veteran team are what Thorn-qvist believes are the best aspects of the Gators this season. With everyone in the lineup able to 
compete, players are able to play 
freely and without worry. 
“I think our players feel like 
they can get a point at every po-sition and that sort of frees you 
up,” he said. “There’s nobody in 
the lineup that feels like, ‘Hey, we can’t win if I can’t win,’ and that should add a lot of freedom 
to our performance and ability to 
play and not have that extra bur-den of feeling like you have to win.”
Florida will now shift its atten-
tion to the National Team Indoor Championships, taking place Fri-day through Monday at Yale and housing the top-16 teams in the country. 
The Gators will prepare for 
this weekend’s competition by 
practicing indoors, something 
that’s different for the team, as it's accustomed to playing out-doors. Despite the unfamiliarity of indoor play, Thornqvist is con-
fident that his players will be able 
to adjust their style of play in or-der to compete. 
“Indoor tennis is obviously 
different than outdoor tennis,” he said. “It’s going to be faster-paced, probably shorter points in general. But we do have play-ers on our team that can adapt to 
that. We have shotmakers on our 
team.”
The Gators will rely on shot-makers like Anna Danilina, who competed indoor during her time in Russia, to elevate the team’s level of play this weekend. Thorn-
qvist described Danilina as “rock 
solid mentally” this season.
Florida will also rely on its 
strength: doubles. The Gators have yet to drop a doubles match 
all season and strive to keep that 
effort up this weekend. 
“With obviously the defending 
NCAA champion at one, we have 
three teams that we can rely on,” 
Thornqvist said. “That adds a lot. That should be great for our play-ers. They feel like we can get a point everywhere.”
The draw for National Indoors 
is expected to be released on Wednesday. However, no matter who the team plays, Thornqvist knows the competition will be tough. He plans to use the mo-mentum from last Saturday’s win 
to give his team confidence going 
into the weekend. 
“Being in these moments like 
playing at Pepperdine, the No. 3-ranked team in the country, 
on the road for the first time, 
it’s great for us emotionally,” he said. “Now going into the in-doors, we’re going to be better-
equipped. We’re going to feel 
more confident and perhaps less nervous in the beginning.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
Women's tennis team preparing for National Indoor Championships
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
The No. 3  Gators performed well on 
Day 1 of the Sea Best Invitational, starting 
in the early morning and finishing late into the afternoon with a hole-in-one, a sweep of the top-three spots and an overall team 
lead after playing 36 holes on the day. 
The team was led by sophomore Gor-
don Neale, who shot a 4-under (136) 
through the first two rounds. He holds second place ahead of teammate Alejan-dro Tosti. 
Tosti scored a 68 in both rounds, finish-ing the day at 4-under and in sole posses-sion of third place. As a team, the Gators shot 8-under, good for first place overall. They hold a one-stroke lead over No.16 North Carolina. 
Despite the small separation at the top, 
no other team was able to shoot under 
par.
Elsewhere for the Gators, senior Ryan 
Orr, who was playing as an individual in 
the field, held the overall lead through two rounds at 7-under. Orr has never won an individual title in his four years at UF, but he was able to card a hole-in-one on the par-3 fifth hole during the second round. From there, Orr went on to shoot a 4-under (66) in the round, the best round of his career. However, because he was playing as an individual in the tourna-ment, his score did not count toward the team’s overall score. 
On Day 2, he'll be looking to beat the 
best finish of his collegiate career, a feat 
he accomplished last year at this same 
tournament when he finished fourth. 
After a strong first day in Ponte Vedra,  
Florida, the Gators will tee off today at-tempting to obtain their first team win of the Spring season.             
 @justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org Gators men's golf starts strong in Ponte Vedra
sophomore guard Madinah Mu-hammad knocked down four shots from behind the three-point line to finish with a game-high 22 points. Freshman center Shelby 
Gibson also played well in the 
absence of typical starter Taylor Manuel, scoring 16 points, pull-ing down six boards and blocking two shots.
“Obviously, we’re very dis-
appointed,” coach Amanda But-
ler said. “Very disappointed in 
our defense. Very disappointed with our effort, in particular on that end of the floor. I don’t re-ally have anything to say beyond that.”
After an evenly matched first 
10 minutes that saw the Gators take a 20-19 lead, Ole Miss retali-
ated to begin the second quarter.
Three-point jumpers from Gib-
son, Muhammad and junior guard 
Shandricka Sessom sparked a 12-0 run to give the Rebels a nine-point advantage halfway through the period.
A 7-2 run from Florida in the 
final two minutes of the half, however, allowed the Gators to claw back to a three-point deficit 
to enter the intermission.
The battle continued into the 
final two quarters of action.Multiple baskets from Wash-
ington, Lorenzen and junior guard 
Dyandria Anderson brought UF to within two points at the end of the third frame.
The Gators continued to keep 
it close in the final minutes of ac-tion until jumpers from Gibson, Sessom and Muhammad gave Ole Miss a 73-64 lead with 3:52 left in the fourth quarter.
Florida got no closer than six 
points following those three field goals, ultimately stopping UF  
from notching its first home SEC 
win since Feb. 28, 2016.
“Defensive pride, you have 
to take it personally,” Lorenzen said. “We didn’t take heart in it tonight.”
Next up for Florida, it’ll face 
the struggling Arkansas Razor-backs (13-10, 2-8 SEC) on Thurs-
day night in the O’Connell Center. 
The Gators have won two straight and five of their last six contests against Arkansas.
“I really believe in this team 
and how good they are,” But-ler said. “But I also have been around long enough to know how good our league is. We’ve got to 
take great pride in defending the 
other team.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgW. BASKETBALL,  from pg13Butler: 'Obviously, we're very disappointed...in our defense'
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams reaches for a layup during Florida's loss to Ole Miss on Monday. Williams  
had a team-high 21 points. 
INDIVIDUAL SCORES 
FROM  TODAY’S  
COMPETITION 
• Orr (ind.) -7 (67, 66) (133)
• T osti -4 (68, 68) (136)
• Neale -4 (68, 68) (136)
• Garcia +3 (73, 70) (143)
• Celano +6 (68, 78) (146)
• Horsfield +8 (79, 69) (148)
• Crouch (ind.) +12 (78, 74) (152)16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2017
