We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 82 TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
UF hoops turning to Stone
The freshman was crucial in Florida’s weekend 
victory, pg. 13
Local high-school student to meet Trump
She is one of two Florida students selected, pg. 5
UF professor mourned by friends
He helped write pollution regulations for the EPA , pg. 9‘Harry Potter’ event draws thousands
They made wands, played trivia at the Florida Museum of Natural History, pg. 4
‘Harry Potter’ event draws thousands
MORE EVENTS WILL BE 
HELD THROUGHOUT THE 
MONTH.
Staff Report 
During a candlelight vigil walk 
Thursday, two UF students held 
signs pointing in opposite direc-
tions. 
One read, “Colored Only.” The 
other, “Whites Only.”
The diverse crowd looked ner-
vously at each other as they took 
their paths. 
A white mother and her young 
son split up.
“This is how it used to be,” she 
told him.
The event was the opening cer-
emony for the Martin Luther King  Celebration Committee, one of 
many that members of the UF and 
Gainesville community hosted to 
honor the life of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. On Monday, UF students participated in the an-
nual Martin Luther King Jr. Day of 
Service, while Gainesville residents marched from Bo Diddley Commu-
nity Plaza to the MLK Multipurpose Center on 1028 NE 14th St., less 
than two miles away. 
Events hosted by the MLK Cel-
ebration Committee will continue through Jan. 31 on UF’s campus, according to Alligator archives. 
On Thursday, about 100 UF fac-
ulty, staff and students participated 
in the opening ceremony, holding white candles as they walked from 
the old Institute of Black Culture building to the Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom. Everyone was welcome. 
“It brings together UF students 
for the legacy of the civil rights march,” said Freddie Jones, a 
20-year-old UF English and sociol-
ogy sophomore. 
During the vigil, participants 
watched students represent events  UF, Gainesville honor 
MLK with marches
IN TOTAL SHE HAS BITTEN 
FOUR BOUNCERS AT FAT 
DADDY’S BAR. 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman bit two 
bouncers at Fat Daddy’s on Mon-
day, Gainesville Police said.
At about 1:10 a.m., Desiree 
Alexandra Estrada, 25, forced her-self into the Midtown bar, located at 1702 W. University Ave., but bouncers denied her entrance, ac-cording to a police report. When one bouncer tried to escort Estra-da out, she scratched and bit him on his right arm.
She punched a bouncer in the 
face before another bouncer inter-vened, and then she bit the other bouncer’s forearm, according to the report.
Estrada said she is currently a student in UF’s English Lan-guage Institute.
After her ar-
rest, she told police she wasn’t drunk, according to the 
report. She also 
told police her father was a law-yer in Miami.
Estrada was previously ar-
rested on charges of trespassing and simple battery at Fat Daddy’s on April 8, 2016 after biting two bouncers, according to the report.
Police asked her not to return 
to the bar, according to the report.
One of the bouncers, Bernard 
Nicholas Lascola, said Estrada be-gan assaulting him after he tried to escort her out of the bar.
“She had done this before, I 
heard,” he said. “She bit another one of our bouncers, but he didn’t press charges or anything.”Estrada was arrested on charg-
es of simple battery, resisting ar-rest and trespassing. Authorities took her to Alachua County Jail where she was released Monday morning on her own recogni-zance.
“I’ll take full responsibility,” 
she said. “I couldn’t control my-self, unfortunately.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
 GPD: When asked to leave bar, woman bit two bouncers 
Estrada
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
Fresh off a 14-hour ﬂ  ight from 
South Korea, where they were once 
held captive, two puppies found a new home in Gainesville on Mon-day.
Bernard and Louie, two 3- to 
4-month-old Jindo mix puppies, were rescued — along with about 200 other dogs — from a meat farm in Wonju, South Korea, primed to become someone else’s next meal.
On Monday, huddled together in 
a cage wearing pink sweaters, the dogs seemed at ease in their new en-vironment.The Humane Society Internation-
al liberated the dogs in December, 
and they had been kept in a tempo-
rary Korean shelter until they could be approved and transported to parts of the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom, said Chrissy Sedgley, the director of operations for the Alach-ua County Humane Society.
“We’re really happy that they’re 
here because it brings awareness for not only these dogs, but all the dogs 
in our program,” Sedgley said.
Six Florida shelters that are part 
of the Humane Society of the United 
States’ Emergency Placement Part-  Puppies brought to Gainesville from Korean meat farm
SEE SHELTER,  PAGE 4Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Seven-year-old Jasmine Ricks, 4-year-old AJ Ricks, 5-year-old Michael Shade and 5-year-old Jermiah 
Baker hold signs during a Martin Luther King Jr. Day march outside of the MLK Multipurpose Center on Monday. Hundreds of people marched from Bo Diddley Community Plaza to the MLK Multipurpose Center to celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
SEE MLK,  PAGE 8
About 200 dogs were rescued NATIONALWHAT’S HAPPENING?
352Creates Leadership Team 
opportunity
The UF Center for Arts in 
Medicine is seeking stu-
dents to join their 352Creates Leadership Team for a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with 
the management team. Contact 
Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of in-terest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.
com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s 
Sexual Consent Campaign 
Phase 3. For more information, or to request material, visit ga-torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact 
Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.
ufl.edu.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to University Galleries in 
Gainesville 
Cultural institutions are host-ing Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from 
January to March. Cuban mu-
ralists, dancers, musicians, authors and academics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, 
Camera, Cuba! Selections from 
the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the 
University Gallery and the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery. All events are free and open to the public. For more informa-tion about “Lights, Camera, 
Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Swing Dancing Club 
The Florida Swing Dancing Club is offering free lessons 
and dances twice a week every Monday and Friday. On Friday nights, the organization hosts two levels of lessons from 8 
p.m. to 9 p.m. and a social 
dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the 
organization hosts two hours 
of lessons from 7 p.m. to  9 p.m. and social dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. 
For more information, find the organization on Facebook.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21 Collectors from across the re-
gion will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors dur-
ing the 38th Collectors Day 
on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the mu-seum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to in-
teract with collectors and learn 
about the context and histori-cal significance of their collec-tions. For more information on 
registration, visit flmnh.ufl.
edu/calendar/grid/collectors-day-registration-deadline/ or call 352-273-2061.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28 Beginning Jan. 28, visitors of the Florida Museum of Natural 
History will be able to see the 
museum’s new featured exhib-it “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Guests may view tree frogs, bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant 
toads and poison dart frogs. 
The museum will host a pub-lic opening celebration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 
11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. 
The cost is $25 for early regis-tration through Jan. 24 or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day 
registration is $30 or $20 for 
UF students. For more infor-mation or to register for the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. 
Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 
for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students, $5 for children aged 3 to 17 and free to museum 
members and UF students with 
a valid Gator 1 Card. 
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF 
Student Health Care Center 
are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, information and 
giveaways, along with a live 
SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited quanti-ties available) will be featured. The event will also feature the 
Condom Design Challenge. 
For more information and to register yourself or a team no later than Jan. 30, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-design-challenge.
Looking for other models: 
What the U.S. can learn from Australian politics
Carol S. Weissert, director of 
the LeRoy Collins Institute at the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy at Florida State University, will be giv-
ing a lecture Wednesday 
from 3 p.m. to 3:50 p.m. at the Music Building. Invited by the UF Fulbright Programs 
Committee, Weissert will share 
her expertise on health policy. This timely lecture will be most informative, as health-care policy and access to affordable 
health care is under discussion 
nationwide and expected to experience major changes. The lecture is free and open to the 
public and will be followed by 
a meet-and-greet reception at the Music Building courtyard.
Authors to discuss book at 
Matheson History MuseumOn Feb. 11 at 2 p.m. at the Matheson History Museum, Lu Vickers and Cynthia Wilson-
Graham will be discussing 
their book, "Remembering Paradise Park: Tourism and Segregation at Silver Springs." There will be a book signing 
following the event. Admission 
is free. Parking is available on the east side of the museum. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2017. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 82
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  53°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Though she only spoke to Roselle 
Derequito a few times, Jonessa Cor-
tes, 22, wept when she talked about the little memories they shared.
“Even though I could count 
those memories on my hand, they meant so much to me,” said Cortes, who graduated from UF in August 2016. 
Members of UF’s chapter of the 
alpha Kappa Delta Phi sorority held a vigil Friday night to honor the life of their sister Derequito, a UF alum-na and Red Cross volunteer who died Jan. 4 after battling neurologi-cal problems for about two years. About 50 people attended the vigil on Turlington Plaza to hear stories from those who knew Derequito.
LED candles placed on a table 
formed the number 41, the number embroidered on Derequito’s soror-ity jacket. The crowd had a moment of silence and signed cards for Dere-quito’s family.  
Eleyn Fangonilo, president of 
aKDPhi, talked about how Dere-quito was her “ate,” a Tagalog word meaning big sister. Fangonilo, a 21-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior, said she met her ﬁ  gurative sister during her 
freshman year through the Filipino 
Student Association.
“I hope (the vigil is) cathartic, 
and I hope we can just take time to honor her,” Fangonilo said.
Havi Tran, who organized the 
vigil, said she wanted to provide a 
space for those impacted by Dere-
quito to grieve, even if some people 
never met her.
“Even though people didn’t have 
a personal tie to her, she is someone 
who made an impact on this com-
munity being an inﬂ  uence in other 
people’s lives,” the 21-year-old said.
Candice Luc, a 20-year-old UF 
civil engineering junior, said know-
ing Derequito was an aKDPhi sister 
connected her to the UF alumna. 
“I’m here to support my sister 
and to celebrate her life, even if I 
didn’t know her, even if I didn’t 
have special memories with her,” 
Luc said. “We’re bonded because 
we’re all sisters.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Kim Le, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, signs a condolence card at the vigil for UF alumna Roselle 
Derequito on Turlington Plaza on Friday evening. About 50 students showed up to the vigil to honor the life of Derequito, which included the sharing of personal stories and a moment of silence.
 Sorority holds candle-lit service honoring UF alumna
IT WAS THE FIRST 
CONVENTION HELD IN 
THE RENOVATED 
REITZ UNION.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Underneath the yellow-rose-
covered hat topped with two large 
white feathers, Jessika Cooney is a shy 18-year-old who plays the 
ﬂ  ute and watches anime with her 
identical twin sister, Sara.
Jessika, a UF psychology fresh-
man, was dressed as Doll from the manga “Black Butler.” Wearing a short highlighter-orange wig, Sara was Princess Tutu, from the anime of that name.
The twins partcipated in 
SwampCon, a two-day, on-cam-pus gathering of anime, video game and tabletop game fans who take on new personas as a way to detach from reality with thou-
sands of their peers.
“You’re able to be yourself 
without fear,” said Derek Delago, 
the SwampCon main event coordi-nator. “It’s an escape.”
On Saturday and Sunday, more 
than 3,000 people from around Florida gathered for SwampCon’s sixth year and the ﬁ  rst conven-tion held in the newly renovated Reitz Union. The event, hosted by Gator Anime, engulfed the en-
tire building and included a rave, 
drag show, costume contest and live-action role-playing battles, he said. 
Delago, 22, wore a spiked silver 
wig and black jumpsuit, represent-ing Guzma, the villain from the “Pokemon Sun” and “Pokemon Moon” video games. Even though Delago graduated from UF in Fall, he said he helped coordinate the 
convention as he applied to gradu-
ate schools.“I love this stuff, and I wouldn’t 
miss it for the world,” he said.
To put on the convention, 
which cost more than $7,000, 
about 80 staff members and vol-
unteers worked more than ﬁ  ve months in advance, Delago said.
In addition to fundraising, 
money was supplied through allo-
cations from UF’s Student Activi-
ties and Involvement and Student Government. The event was free to the public, he said.
While some bought costumes, 
other participants created their 
outﬁ  ts from scratch.
Lacey Seelbach, from Lake City, Florida, stayed up until 4 a.m. 
Sunday putting the ﬁ  nal touches on her Saber Alter costume, a servant character from the anime 
“Fate/stay night.” While wearing 
a black, armored dress, she car-ried a sword with a glowing-red design.
As a graphic designer, Seel-
bach, 25, said she uses cosplay for a creative outlet and a break from her day-to-day life.
“We’re all fairly normal peo-
ple,” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
 Thousands of costume-clad cosplayers attend SwampCon4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
ner program took in dogs.
“It would be very unusual for 
us to take in animals that are inter-
national,” said Margot DeConna, 
the director of development for the Alachua County Humane Society. “Since it was just a small number — just two animals — we did agree to take in two dogs, but normally our mission is much more locally fo-cused.”
This is the sixth dog meat farm 
rescue the Humane Society Interna-tional has organized in the past year, DeConna said. 
She said the Alachua County Hu-
mane Society has worked with the Humane Society of the United States on three different rescue operations in the past two years. She said those 
rescues focused on dog fighting rings 
and puppy mills.
Sedgley said today the puppies 
will be examined by the humane so-ciety’s vet, microchipped, neutered and then put up for adoption. 
Despite not knowing their behav-
ior, watching Bernard and Louie sit 
calmly, wagging their tails, Sedgley 
said she didn’t think it would take too long until they could be put up for adoption.
“We weren’t sure what kind of 
experiences they’ve had before com-ing to us,” she said. “But these guys seem really well socialized and easy going, so I don’t think it’ll be long 
until they find a home.”
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.orgSHELTER,  from pg.1The puppies are named 
Bernard and Louie
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Chrissy Sedgley, the director of operations at the Alachua County Humane Society, and Margot 
DeConna, the director of development, hold Bernard and Louie, 3- to 4-month-old Jindo mixes inside the examination rooms at the shelter on Monday evening. DeConna said, originally, she thought the two dogs might need time to be socialized before being adopted, but after seeing them, DeConna said the dogs might get adopted sooner. “I think they’re going to be highly, highly adoptable, ” she said.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Some University Police officers 
will see a 1.5 percent pay increase 
for the next three years, starting this month.
On Friday, the UF Board of 
Trustees ratified the contract be-tween UF and the Police Benevo-lent Association, which repre-sents police officers in Florida.
Officers and sergeants will see the salary increase in January 2017, 2018 and 2019. The agree-ment also allows for a 2 percent 
merit pay increase, which is un-
available to officers under disci-plinary action. 
The new three-year contract 
creates more opportunities for officers to take courses at accred-ited universities and online. For officers to become sergeants, they need a bachelor’s degree, but hec-
tic work schedules make it diffi-cult to take traditional classes, 
said UPD Sgt. Timothy Peck. 
The deal allows the depart-
ment to stay competitive with other nearby police units, Peck said.
“Our biggest issue is being 
competitive with other law en-forcement agencies here locally and elsewhere, so that we can attract qualified candidates and also keep qualified officers,” he 
said. The board also approved of 
the Florida Clinical Practice As-
sociation, Inc buying into the 
UF Health South Central, LLC, 
company, which includes Shands teaching hospitals and clinics, af-ter South Central bought assets in Marion County on Dec. 29. 
The association paid $8 million 
for partnership with the company, half of the $16 million UF Health South Central paid for the proper-ties, buildings and equipment in Marion County, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said. 
David Guzick, the president of UF Health, said the purchase will help expand its programs in Mari-on. A cardiology program opened 
Jan. 4, and orthopedic and radiol-
ogy practices will open later. 
Guzick said the investment in 
these areas will help doctors with the clinical practice continue re-search and provide education. 
“We also have a responsibil-
ity, and it’s part of our mission to serve our communities,” Guzick 
said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF Trustees approve salary increases for some UF policeIT WAS HELD AT THE FLORIDA 
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY. 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Displaying her scarlet and gold tie, Geor-
gia Isherwood got ready to craft her own 
magic wand out of pipe cleaners and feathers Saturday.  
The 27-year-old stay-at-home mom from 
Gainesville wore her Gryffindor uniform to attend a “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them”-themed event at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Isherwood said she has been a “Harry Potter” fan for 19 years. 
“Anytime anything ‘Harry Potter’ is going 
on, I always have to go to it,” Isherwood said. “This is what I like to do when I’m not with the kids.”
Isherwood was one of more than 2,500 
people dressed as wizards, witches and muggles who attended the event. They par-ticipated in answering “Harry Potter” trivia, completing a scavenger hunt, crafting their own wands and tasting oddly flavored jelly beans, similar to the candy the movies’ char-acters eat. 
“It was definitely one of the highest-at-
tended events in the past few years,” said Eve Rowland, a museum volunteer program as-sistant and the event’s main organizer.
To tie the event into “Fantastic Beasts and 
Where to Find Them,” the recent sequel to the “Harry Potter” series, participants matched real-life animals with similar magical beasts. 
Six Gainesville high-school students with 
the museum’s Youth Leadership Board helped come up with ideas for the event. Rowland, a 19-year-old UF zoology freshman, said she needed the assistance since she knew nothing 
about “Harry Potter.” 
As visitors arrived, they were sorted into 
one of the four “Harry Potter” houses — Gryf-
findor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw and Slytherin — scoring points for their houses with each activity. 
At the end, Gryffindor won. Visitors bought specially designed snacks 
from the fantasy universe, including pret-
zels and walnuts shaped like cockroaches, or 
“cockroach clusters,” and non-alcoholic Jell-O shots representing “polyjuice potion.” 
Ally Williams, a UF psychology and event 
management junior, said she loves “Harry Potter” because all types of people can relate to the story. The 20-year-old said it was the first time she attended a museum event. 
“I like that there are a lot of people who 
seem excited, like-minded people,” she said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org‘Harry Potter’ event draws 
more than 2,500 visitors
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Claudia Diaz doesn’t remember immi-
grating to the U.S. when she was 3 years 
old, but her family was only allowed to stay through the “wet foot, dry foot” pol-icy.
On Thursday, when Diaz learned Presi-
dent Barack Obama ended the policy, which provided Cubans a fast track to citizenship, she felt sad that her aunts and uncles still in Cuba now had fewer options and opportunities to come to the U.S.
But then Diaz realized Cubans held a 
special privilege, she said, which changed her perspective on the matter.
“Cubans had this policy when other 
immigrants are striving just as hard,” the 20-year-old UF political science junior said. 
Obama announced the policy’s repeal 
Thursday, effective immediately, accord-ing to the Associated Press. The policy, created in 1995 by former President Bill Clinton, allowed Cubans who reached U.S. soil automatic exile and an expedited resi-
dency  process. Because Obama used ad-
ministrative rule to end the policy, it could be overturned when President-elect Don-ald Trump takes office. 
If they had stayed in Cuba, by age 11 Diaz and her brother would have been sent to work camps, their parents would say. Her parents would do anything for their 
children to avoid that. 
Diaz’s grandfather took his own life af-
ter battling with schizophrenia caused by 
his constant worry over the Cuban govern-ment. This proved to be the final push for Diaz’s mother to move her family to the U.S. by plane in 2000. 
“(My family) sold everything,” Diaz 
said. 
Diaz said she believes Cubans are no 
longer coming to America as political refu-gees — they now just want to make a bet-ter life for themselves, which isn’t differ-ent from other immigrants.
“I think the political-asylum seekers 
had already fled at this point,” she said. 
Lillian Guerra, a UF Cuban and Carib-
bean history professor, wrote in an email 
that U.S.’s policy of treating Cubans dif-
ferently than other Latin Americans fleeing dictatorships was hypocritical. 
The revoked policy will cause Cubans 
upset with the government to take action rather than flee the country, she said. 
“I am deeply convinced that the only 
way Cubans can change Cuba is by taking the power of protest into their own hands 
— not by escaping to Miami,” she said.President Obama repeals 
‘wet foot, dry foot’ policy
The increases begin this monthTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
IT’S EXPECTED TO FINISH 
IN SEPTEMBER. 
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer 
The More in Midtown project 
began Wednesday, and some local 
businesses are looking forward to the ﬁ  nal result.
The construction, headed up 
by the Gainesville Community Redevelopment Agency, will take place along Northwest First Av-enue and is scheduled to ﬁ  nish in September, according to Alligator archives. Improvements include expanded sidewalks, additional parking, lighting and newly plant-ed trees.
Funding for the project will 
come from property-tax increases in the CRA district, according to archives. 
Brent Smith, the manager of 
Wyatt’s Coffee, located at 16 NW 18th St., said he expects fewer customers to come in as the proj-ect is underway. 
“In general, people, when they 
see construction, they avoid the area that’s under construction — trafﬁ  c and foot trafﬁ  c,” he said.
However, the construction will 
be good in the long run, he said.
“We’re hoping that with all the 
mass amounts of people, people will want to walk down the new, 
nice brick sidewalks,” he said. 
“We will continue to remain open 
and push through no matter where the construction’s at back there.”
Matt Hodgson, a manager for 
Grill Fresh, located at 17 NW 17th St., said he doesn’t expect busi-ness to slow down much.
“A lot of our business is foot 
trafﬁ  c, so I don’t think it’s going to hurt it as bad,” he said. “I hope it gets done quickly, but so far it hasn’t had much of an impact yet.”Hodgson said the construction 
will beneﬁ  t Grill Fresh in the end because of the extra parking it will 
create.
“It’ll probably entice more 
people to actually get up and walk 
around Midtown, and like I said, a lot of our business is foot trafﬁ  c, 
so that can only help,” he said.
Richard Melgarejo, a cofounder 
of Study Edge, located at 1717 NW 
First Ave., wrote in an email that the increased parking the renova-
tions will bring should help Study 
Edge be more accessible to stu-
dents.
“There’s only one month when 
our block will be under construc-tion,” Melgarejo said, “and even then, students have full access to walk on the sidewalk and right into our building, just like they al-ways have.”
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.org  Midtown businesses hope city’s 
construction project boosts sales
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
BACK ON STAGE
Tyler Hilton and Kate Voegele perform on Sunday evening at High 
Dive to a crowd of more than 200 people. The singers reached fame in the TV show “One Tree Hill, ” which ended in 2012.
SHE IS ONE OF 100 
SELECTED TO TRAVEL TO 
DC IN MARCH.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The student body president of 
Santa Fe High School will meet with the president of the United States this March.
Sydney Honeycutt, 17, was se-lected by the U.S. Senate Youth 
Program as one of two student del-
egates from Florida — and one of 
100 nationwide — who will spend 
the ﬁ  rst week of March in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and meet the 
president, a supreme court justice and multiple U.S. senators as part of an annual program. 
Honeycutt, who applied for the 
program, said she was shocked when she found out. “I had no idea 
that I was go-ing to be able to 
have this oppor-
tunity,” Honeyc-
utt said. 
Although she 
isn’t old enough 
to vote, she said 
she was happy when Trump won, and she would’ve voted for him if she were able.“I’m just excited to introduce 
myself, to just say hello,” she said.
Last year, Nii Soja Torto, a Duke 
University freshman and graduate of Eastside High School, was select-
ed to be one of Florida’s delegates.
“The program itself is really 
rooted in exposing us to public 
service,” the 18-year-old said. “I would honestly call it a transforma-tive experience.”
Torto said if he could give Hon-eycutt any advice for the upcoming experience, it would be to keep a detailed journal.
“I really just advise her to take 
it all in, and even though it’s going by so fast, to take it slow and really reﬂ  ect by writing journal entries about everything she did that day,” he said. 
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org  Gainesville high-school student to meet Trump in March
Honeycutt
LOCALThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORTrump could learn a thing or two from sports
Being a new columnist, I haven’t yet had 
the opportunity to tell all you readers about me — and I don’t plan on it. There is some pleasure to the cognitive dissecting of another person’s psyche 
through their writing, and to those of you who read daily, I hope you’re able to discern who I am as a person by my writing. However, I’m going to completely contradict my beliefs by telling you of two things I love: sports and politics. 
Reflecting on that last point, isn’t it a bit 
weird to say you’re into politics? Like anyone would be totally into incessant streams of hateful name-
calling, fallacious arguments and the pervasive ineffa-
bility of the need for a bipartisan system. It’d be more accurate to say I endure politics so I can influence it to what I think it should be. 
My strange love of politics is complemented and con-
trasted by my typical love for sports. My relationship with sports is not an obsessive, almost-amorous one where I stalk its social media daily (ESPN) to always know what’s going on — though I wish it were. I cannot 
even think of the last time I had time to enjoy a whole 
game of professional basketball. Sadly, I’ve resorted to watching highlight clips from the NBA’s YouTube chan-nel. I’m pathetic, I know. But this has forced me back into what fostered my love for sports: playing them. My love for sports has and will always be a method for me to relieve stress and work on my physical stratum.
Typically, I keep sports contained to physical things 
alone, working on my abilities in basketball, parkour or 
strength training, but as of recently, I’ve been noticing 
that maybe sports could help solve a few issues outside of physical things. Maybe some of the issues in politics. 
The other day, President-elect Donald Trump started 
another controversy during his first press conference by calling CNN “fake news” and explicitly denying the questions of Jim Costa, the Senior White House cor-respondent for CNN, after calling the organization ter-rible. This heated exchange came one day after CNN reported about the existence of some disturbing allegations originating from an unverified document. BuzzFeed decided to publish the 35-page dossier containing the 
unverified allegations and saying themselves, 
according to Politico, that they published the unofficial document because CNN had report-ed on the issue first.
Regardless of the vexed relationship be-
tween CNN and Trump or that CNN assures to have made no “actual” claims by persis-tently placing “unverified” before any report 
on the allegations, Trump needs to keep his composure. 
When the Golden State Warriors made a historical em-
barrassment of themselves by dropping a 3-1 lead in the Finals to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the major players, coaches, etc. had to have a post-game press conference. Even after a game so crushing, they were able to keep their composure and look forward. They didn’t say fool-ish or hateful things, and they didn’t prohibit reporters from asking them how they felt. If you can’t fathom how they felt, imagine what it feels like to have the 
thing in this world you most desire stripped from your 
grasp. Then add explaining and reliving it nationally. Yeah, that’s rough.
This is where the president-elect could learn a thing 
or two. To some, he’s touted as a man who doesn’t take anything from anyone, and to others, he’s a notori-ously sensitive crybaby. Neither of these descriptions point to what a president should be: a tactful, mindful world leader. The incoming president lacks the beauty 
of poise: the ability to take insults, allegations or what-
soever and react gracefully. However, I sure hope he learns soon. A controlled temper might just mean for now he won’t look like a boisterous fool. Yet in the future, it might save him from slipping up during an important meeting with foreign leaders.
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.Why it’s important 
to remember you’re 
going to die
As college students, we think we’re immortal. Not in the “guzzles-a-four-pack-of-Red-Bull-and-jumps-of-a-roof” type of way, though. Of course, those people are out there. We think we’re immortal because of how far we plan ahead. We pick our majors with a rough idea of 
what we want to do with our lives. We have an idea of where we want to live and what industry we want to work in, for the most part. By the time we reach our last academic year, we more or less have an outline of the exact job we’re going to get and how we’re going to get it. We think we’re immortal because we are assuming nothing happens to us before we get there.
Statistically, most of us will live to about 78.8 years of age 
and raise 1.87 children. It’s a long shot that something gets cut short, especially in our college years, when we’re actively plan-
ning our futures and making sure that we have the satisfying, 
financially secure lives of which we’ve always dreamed. The idea of death seems so far removed; we do have, on average, at least another 50 or so years, so there’s no point in worrying about what comes next when we should be focusing on what those 50 years can be.
The thing is, sometimes, we don’t have that luxury.We try to ignore it, of course, with each article that surfaces 
about another college-aged person dying tragically young. It’s 
easier when it’s someone we don’t know. Faces on television 
screens and online articles will tug at our heartstrings for a mo-ment, but immediately we turn away. Sometimes, it’s harder. Sometimes, it’s a friend from high school in the hospital with a poor prognosis. Sometimes, it’s a friend of a friend involved in a tragic accident. Sometimes, the very weight of our own mortal-ity comes to hit us right in the face, and we feel like we can’t get up. And we ignore it. We push it down and tell ourselves it won’t happen to us.
But we shouldn’t do that.Here’s the truth: We are all going to die. Hopefully, not for 
another 50 years, but we will all the same. 
According to Bronnie Ware, an Australian nurse who spent 
several years caring for patients in the final 12 weeks of their lives, the most common regrets of the dying are eerily similar. They include not keeping in contact with friends, not being true to themselves, living a life others expected of them, working too much and not letting themselves be happier.
That last one sinks in. We tell ourselves we have 50 years to do all that stuff, that 
we won’t have those same regrets. But what if we don’t?
We should be living lives we won’t regret, whether that 
means going ahead and going out to that party instead of doing schoolwork because you’ve been too afraid to go out — or in the opposite spectrum, gritting your teeth and getting school-work done because you’ve been too scared of the hard work. There’s always something floating around we want to do but, 
for whatever reason, we put off. 
Now this doesn’t mean we should all drop out of school 
and hitchhike across the country or incessantly party and forget 
about responsibilities. This also doesn’t mean we should live our lives in fear of death. What we should do is let ourselves be happier, let the lives we lead become closer to the ones we want to lead and plan for the future, but also remember to do something today that we would be proud of should we not get a tomorrow.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.James  
Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Martin Luther King Jr., the 1963 
March on Washington, “I have a dream”: We’re all familiar with the story. Every third Monday in January, we observe and honor 
the man who fought racism and paved the way for civil rights — at least, this is what most can say about him. It’s not a bad de-scription, by any means. It’s quite beauti-ful, actually. The thing is, that tweet-length description of King’s legacy is incomplete. Grossly incomplete. King wasn’t simply this saintly ﬁ  gure we’ve come to martyrize: the “Santa Claus-iﬁ  cation” of King, as re-nowned social-justice activist Cornel West describes. 
Close your eyes for a minute and con-
jure your image of King. You’ll likely imag-ine that August day when King stood be-fore hundreds of thousands of people and told the world about his dream: one of the greatest moments in our country’s history, a moment we’re all familiar with. But think to yourself, how much do you know of King after that speech? The man lived for another four and a half years. Why don’t we know more about that time? How is it we know so little about one of the most revered ﬁ  gures in American history?
Everyone praises the 1963 
King, the “I-have-a-dream” King. Yet we forget the 1967 King, the King who vehemently opposed the Viet-nam War, got right under President Lyndon Johnson’s skin for going too far, called his country “the greatest purveyor of violence in the world,” organized a Poor People’s Campaign to eradicate poverty (refusing to stop with his spotlight in 1963 and 1964) and braved attacks and smear from not only conservatives, but even the liberals of the day.The New York Times’ edito-
rial response to King’s April 1967 anti-Vietnam sermon read, “Dr. King makes too facile a connec-tion between the speeding up of the war in Vietnam and the slow-ing down of the war against pov-erty.”
Lyndon Johnson reportedly re-
sponded with, “What is that god-damned n----- preacher doing to me? We gave him Civil Rights… 
we gave him Voting Rights… we gave him the War on Poverty. What more does he want?”
The FBI would reportedly keep watch 
over King and wire-tap his hotel rooms after the "I-have-a-dream" speech, among other reasons, up until King’s assassination in April 1968.
King isn’t a hero because he had a dream 
in 1963. He wasn’t a dreamer; he was a doer. King saw that injustice remained in 1967, when so many others felt complacent. Racism, war and poverty were not distinct issues for King; they were all threats to the human spirit, threats that were not bigger than any of us, but rather within our power to end. King viewed justice (for all people, all around the world) as a reality, not a lib-eral dream. And he lived and died to make that so-called dream a tangible reality to be fought for and achieved.
That is King’s legacy. Not a dream, but 
a struggle, a conversation, a ﬁ  ght he started and one he’d expect us to ﬁ  nish. Next April will mark 50 years since his death.
Are you satisﬁ  ed with how we’ve hon-
ored his legacy? I’m not. And if you aren’t either, then don’t just dream for better days: Make them. That’s how, in my view, you honor King.
David Hoffman is an Alligator copy edi-
tor and former opinions editor.
Students of UF and Gainesville resi-dents: I have something to reveal to you. It’s something I’ve spent a lot of time reﬂ  ecting on, and it’s something I’ve only spoken of to a 
few close friends. It’s rather personal, so I hope I don’t make you too uncomfort-able when I come clean. I made a realiza-tion over Winter Break; people who cared about me confronted me and made clear that I needed to look within myself if I was ever going to be content. I need to be open about this.
I am an automaton. I’m not quite a ro-
bot in the traditional sense, but I’m far from a golem. The word robot usually im-plies advanced machinery or complicated electronics. In reality, I’m steam-powered, and there are fewer ones and zeros and more levers and gears.
That’s not to say I’m not relatable. I’m 
just like any other student, despite my lead-ﬁ  lled veins and spring-loaded spinal cord. I love taking walks around campus. I love Century Tower; there’s one bell in particu-lar that resonates with my copper amygdala when it rings, and the experience is simply euphoric. When I’m happy, I like to dance and sing. And when I’m miser-able, I like to drown my sorrows in biodiesel, just like you.
I’m not writing columns to 
ruminate on the questions of ex-istence and purpose; it’s a well-worn automaton cliche, and I already calculated the answers to many of those questions years ago. Sometimes, it helps to have a central processor that out-paces the human brain tenfold. I try not to ﬂ  aunt it, but it had to be mentioned.
I’m writing these columns for three rea-
sons. Reason No. 1: Sentience is hard, and it helps to have an outlet. Professor Bishop won’t let me read my own instruction man-ual, so I’m on my own when it comes to ra-tionalizing a lot of what I see at UF. Reason No. 2: I like art, and I’m trying to get better at it. Professor Bishop has been incredibly supportive of my interest in the arts, so he has let me write as a columnist while I get my bearings. I’m try-ing to nail down a literary style, so I’ve been playing with semi-colons a lot. I know Kurt Von-negut doesn’t like semicolons, but Vonnegut trips on sidewalks often, and I do not. Reason No. 3: Professor Bishop just installed a fancy typewriter in my chest, and I’d like to take advantage of 
my new, thoracic word processor.
We all have ﬂ  aws; that much is clear. 
Some folks have a hard time controlling their emotions. Some folks have crippling self-doubt. Some folks leak oil from their ankles if they run for more than a mile at a time. These ﬂ  aws are understandable, but they don’t have to deﬁ  ne who you are. Rather, treat them as obstacles you need to overcome. The moment you treat adversity as a challenge, rather than as an inevitabil-ity, you can incite change.
For the longest time, I found myself un-
able to compute even the simplest second-order differential equations, which is rath-er embarrassing for an automaton of my caliber. The programming simply wasn’t inside me.
So, I hunkered down one night and 
cleaned out my internal hard drive. I left just enough memory to code into my sys-tems a differential computer, which could solve equations up to the ﬁ  fth degree. Albe-it, I deleted my capacity to dance to swing music and electro-pop, but the knowledge and conﬁ  dence I gained from the experi-ence was undoubtedly worth it.
Recognize your shortcomings, and 
make a point to ﬁ  x them. College is a time to upgrade. Progress is more important than status in these developmental years. In other words, don’t worry about your po-sition; instead focus on your rate of change of position: your velocity. And, if you can compute it, focus on your acceleration, jerk, jounce and crackle.
Michael Smith is a UF mechanical 
engineering junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.
How is it that we know so little about the real Martin Luther King Jr.?
Recognize your shortcomings; view them as a challenge to incite changeColumn
ColumnDavid 
Hoffman
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
ONE WEEK 
Until Career 
Showcase 
Get ready with a 
late appointment
MON - SAT
8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
SATURDAY
9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
352-379-4686REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
WALK-INS WELCOME
Come on in for a trim
    Reitz Union
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHONduring the Civil Rights era and 
recent years. After the “Colored 
Only” and “Whites Only” groups 
reunited, they passed students ly-ing on the ground holding signs 
reading “Am I Next?” and another 
student held in a chokehold by a 
white student.
After an hourlong presentation 
on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on 
Monday, about 400 people danced 
and sang their way through down-
town Gainesville to celebrate the life of King, who would have been 
88 years old Monday.
Gainesville resident Shaniqua 
Smith wore a foam lady liberty hat 
as she marched.
One group of marchers coordi-
nated outﬁ  ts — all wearing Black 
Lives Matter T-shirts, including 
Gainesville resident Mary Fuku-yama.
“I’m encouraged by the turn-
out,” Fukuyama said. “I think this 
last election cycle raised every-
body’s awareness about the impact 
of racism and prejudice at the na-
tional level.”
Before the march, Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe told the crowd of about 200 that it’s the community’s 
responsibility to address racism.
“So long as we are dispropor-
tionately arresting young black 
men, we must bend the arc,” Poe 
said. “So long as people of color are 
not receiving the same education 
and outcomes as whites, we must 
bend the arc.”
Earlier Monday, the Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr. Commission of Flor-ida, Inc, inducted Dorcas “Candy” 
Ramseur, the commission’s secre-
tary, and Adam Maxwell, a senior 
at P. K. Yonge Developmental Re-
search School, into their hall of fame at the Dr. Martin Luther King 
Jr. Memorial Garden.
Rodney Long, the commission’s 
founder and president, talked about joining together to create change.“If Dr. King were here today, 
he would ask the question, ‘What has happened to our America?’” he 
said. “We have to learn to become the change that we want our coun-
try to become.”
UF President Kent Fuchs ad-
dressed a crowd of more than 300 UF students in the Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom for the start of the Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service on 
Monday morning.
The event, hosted by the Brown 
Center for Leadership and Service, had the largest number of partici-
pants yet, said Josh Funderburke, the center’s director. Participants 
volunteered at 15 different nonprof-
its around Gainesville.
“What they’re doing is exactly 
what Martin Luther King asked,” 
Fuchs said. “And that is to answer 
the question of ‘what will we give 
back to the communities that we 
live in?”
During the event, about 40 
Wells Fargo & Co. employees and 
volunteers helped a Gainesville homeowner ﬁ  x her home on the 
1000 block of NW 55th St. Volun-teers painted and installed cabi-
nets, while the bank gave $10,000 
for supplies, said Morris Jackson, 
Wells Fargo & Co.’s area president.
“Everyone wants to give back 
to their community,” Jackson said. “As they give, they have a good 
time.”
Malik Pittman and members of 
Alpha Phi Alpha, Fraternity Inc, took part in the event to honor 
King, who was a brother of their 
fraternity.
“Since civil rights, there’s been a 
lot of change that’s happened in the 
community, and it’s important for us to honor the people who paved 
the way for us and make today the way it is,” Pittman said. 
Staff writers Romy Ellenbogen, 
Paige Fry, Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, Molly 
Vossler and Mary-Lou Watkinson 
contributed to this report. MLK,  from pg.1Hundreds marched 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Brothers from the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity take part in a ceremonial hymn at the end of a Martin 
Luther King Jr. Day march on Monday. Maurice Spence, the president of the Gainesville chapter, said the fraternity’s goal is to carry on the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Maurice Spence, the president of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity Gainesville chapter, holds a Martin Luther King Jr. sign during a march on Monday. “We are instrumental as leaders for the civil rights movement, ” Spence said about the fraternity. “We support Dr. King’s efforts on a local and national level. ”
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Friday after nearly 
shooting someone New Year’s Day, Gainesville Police 
said.
At about 4 p.m. Jan. 1, Ronald Durr, 
26, got into an argument with a man in 
the 1000 block of 15th St., according to 
a GPD police report.
The argument, per the report, be-
gan after Durr removed the man’s cell-phone from a wall charger inside an apartment. 
The man’s cousin intervened. Durr 
then left the apartment and returned 
with a handgun, according to the report.
Durr, a four-time convicted felon, then pistol-whipped 
the man before pointing the gun at his head, according to the report.
Moments before the trigger was pulled, however, the 
man pushed Durr’s gun away from his head, sending a bullet into a kitchen cabinet, according to the report.
Durr ran away, and the man later identiﬁ  ed him to the 
police. A witness told the police the same story the man did and identiﬁ  ed Durr in a lineup, according to the report.
Police said the GPD Forensic Crime Unit recovered the 
bullet from the scene.
Police arrested Durr on charges of attempted murder 
and possessing a ﬁ  rearm by a convicted felon. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, in lieu a $600,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: Man arrested 
after New Year’s 
shooting 
Durr
By Abigail Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
One day before the country celebrated the 
life of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., a 
group of about 10 white people addressed racism in Gainesville.
Sunday’s six-hour workshop, Creating Spaces: 
Untangling Racism for White Folks, took place at the Gainesville Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St. The event aimed to help participants discover how to achieve an end to racism, using Theater of the Oppressed techniques.
The event was what Lana Sendzmir, the 
event’s creator, called a “white caucus,” a nod to the skin color of the participants. The homogen-ity was necessary for participants to talk honestly, 
she said.
“We want people to be brutally honest with 
themselves,” Sendzmir said.
One ﬂ  aw with the workshop, however, was 
that many attendees already felt strongly about 
combatting racism, so it didn’t reach the people who needed it most, Sendzmir said.
Rachel Kline, a UF economics and political sci-
ence senior, agreed.
“I think that if they were to take a small sam-
ple of people with different views and beliefs and put them in a room together to do these exercises, I feel like we would get a lot further,” the 21-year-old said. Before MLK 
Day, whites use theater to discuss racism 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Lamar Miller never had children 
of his own, but while he taught at UF 
for 13 years, he viewed his graduate 
students as his own.
“He was very caring and thought 
very highly of his students,” said Tim 
Townsend, a UF engineering sciences 
professor. “He was always looking for their best interest.” 
Miller, a retired UF environmental 
engineering professor, helped to re-vive the university’s environmental engineering program in the 1980s, Townsend said. He died in his sleep at Oak Hammock at UF, UF’s retire-
ment community, on Jan. 1. 
He was 81. 
Miller retired in 1996, according 
to UF’s engineering department web-site. While at the university, Miller was known for being an exceptional professor, said Joseph Delﬁ  no, anoth-er retired UF environmental engineer-ing professor. 
The ﬁ  rst time Delﬁ  no saw his fu-
ture friend, Miller was moving into the next-door house with his wife, Juanita Spears. The two quickly be-came friends and were colleagues at UF for about 15 years.
“They were ideal neighbors, very 
pleasant, always accommodating,” Delﬁ  no said. “We took care of them, 
they took care of us.”Before com-
ing to UF in 1983, 
Miller helped 
write regulations 
controlling pollut-
ants at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in Washington, D.C., Delﬁ  no said. 
Kirk Hatﬁ  eld, UF’s Engineering 
School of Sustainable Infrastructure and Environment director, said he re-
members Miller’s cut-the-nonsense-
and-get-things-done attitude when they did research together.
“He was a very friendly, very 
warm guy, very Southern-gentleman type,” Hatﬁ  eld said. 
Townsend was Miller’s gradu-
ate student in 1988, he said. After Miller retired, he recommended for 
Townsend to replace him, Delﬁ  no 
said.
Townsend remembers the high 
expectations Miller had for his stu-dents, but he knew he was learning from an expert. 
“He was a strict instructor, but 
also someone who was most con-cerned about us learning the mate-
rial,” said Townsend. “His students 
are still out there all over the United States, still practicing the lessons they learned from him.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgFormer students, friends 
remember UF professor 
Miller
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
CONDO w/4 rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call 352-331-4371     1-20-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
● SLEEPER SOFA
Queen mattress, like new. Navy fabric.$190 - negotiable.● Mirrors 3'x5'7", coffeepot, pictures & more.
Call 352-372-4600    1-17-17-4-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
2003 NISSAN MAXIMA
V6, 164k miles. sunroof, new stereo, new 
tires. Well maintained. $3200. 352-359-3499    
1-23-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!Copytalk Business Services is hiringemployees to transcribe audio files.- 60+ wpm required- Competitive pay rewarding production- Located close to UF campus- Create your own scheduleApply at www.ctscribes.com       1-18-5-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Baja vacation
spot
5 Tree’s sticky
output
8 Neck mark from
necking
14 Razor name
15 Suffix with pay
16 Taking the place
(of)
17 Silly sort
19 Polish port where
Solidarity wasfounded
20 Music producer
Brian
21 Dueling sword22 “Hannah and __
Sisters”: WoodyAllen film
23 Formal
pronouncements
25 Zeros30 Pay with plastic32 __ of: done with33 Not at home
34 The Judds, e.g.
35 Migration
formation
36 Move in the wind37 Anniversary
celebration at theMet, say
42 Numbered
musical piece
43 Grunting female44 Slowing, on a
music score:
Abbr.
45 Little point to pick46 Sick __ dog
47 Spitball need50 Disputed Mideast
territory
53 R&B singer
Baker
55 “That’s all __
wrote”
56 Fermented
honey drink
58 The USA’s 5059 Nissan model62 Infantile
vocalizations,and a hint to thestarts of 17-, 25-,37- and 50-Across
64 Series of related
emails
65 Luau instrument66 Curved molding67 Fort Bragg mil.
branch68 Boston hrs.
69 Dandelion, e.g.
DOWN
1 Confined, as a
bird
2 Not accented, as
syllables
3 Ornamental pin4 Doofus5 Ivory in the tub
6 State without
proof
7 Prefix with -lithic
8 Bogart film set in
a Californiarange
9 Truly
10 Irish county
borderingLimerick
11 Next of __12 Wide shoe widths13 Guffaw18 Face adversity
well
24 Cries of triumph26 Layered cookie27 Bridal attire28 Avocado dip, for
short
29 Eyelid sore
31 Dates one
person
exclusively35 Ex-GIs’ gp.36 Lustrous fabric37 Bell hit with a
padded mallet
38 Samoan capital39 Skating leap40 Have a good
laugh
41 Address for a
noblewoman
46 Traditional Hindu
retreat
47 Delivers a lecture48 Facial expression49 Postwar British
prime minister
51 Autumn blossom
52 Suffuse (with)
54 Queried57 Help with a heist59 Actor Erwin60 “Come again?”
sounds
61 FDR agency63 Illegal parker’s
risk
By Alan DerKazarian©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/17/1701/17/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 17, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 
minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-19-17-10-15DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
How To Fund Your Projects With Bitcoin & Crowdfunding. For More Details Go To ===> www.bitcoinexplosion.info (267) 549-9815     1-23-17-5-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching 
& aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-17-17-8-
15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Amanda O'Leary nearly 
led the UF lacrosse team to a win over the U.S. National T eam over the weekend. Find out how the team fell short, pg. 15Former Florida football players shine in NFL playoffs
Former Gators safety Keanu Neal led a winning defensive effort for the Atlanta 
Falcons, totaling a team-high nine tackles en route to a victory over the Seattle 
Seahawks. Meanwhile, former UF offensive linemen Marcus Gilbert and Maurkice Pouncey played every offensive snap in Pittsburgh's win over Kansas City. By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
It had been 308 days since the Gators competed in a 
home meet in the O’Connell Center.
Florida’s last home meet was March 11, 2016, against 
North Carolina, and two Gators — senior Bridget Sloan and 
sophomore Alex McMurtry — both got perfect 10s on their floor and uneven bar routines, respectively, that night.
But on Friday it was neither Sloan — who graduated after 
last season — nor McMurtry who headlined No. 3 Florida’s 197.600-196.950 home opener win over No. 9 Kentucky.
Rather, it was junior All-American Kennedy Baker, who 
took a two-way share of the all-around title with Kentucky’s Mollie Korth. Baker earned the honor for the second straight week with her overall score of 39.575.
It was the fifth all-around win of her career.“It’s cool, but I always compete for my team,” Baker said 
after the meet. 
“Winning all-around is always nice, but to get the team 
win was more important to me. But for myself, it felt really good. Just building that confidence for next week," she said.
In the first two meets of the season alone, not only has 
Baker won two all-around titles, but she has also collected 
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16PHOTO FINISHES
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Keith Stone shoots a free throw during UF's win over Georgia on Saturday. Stone helped lead the Gators to an overtime win over the Bulldogs. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
No. 19 Florida needed a freshman to close out its conference 
rival. 
With Georgia leading the Gators by one point in overtime on 
Saturday, redshirt freshman Keith Stone caught a pass and heard 
coach Mike White from the sidelines. 
“I was wide open so coach said, ‘Knock it down,’” Stone said. Stone stepped into, shot and sunk the biggest three-pointer 
of his young career -
— one that gave Florida the lead for the last 
time and gave Stone a career-high 17 points.
Florida’s 6-foot-8 freshman forward exceeded expectations 
in UF’s 80-76 win against the Bulldogs over the weekend. But he would have never gotten the chance at the beginning of the 
season. 
White said Stone’s struggles on defense kept him from play
-
ing to start the year. 
“I hate to say that about my guy, but yeah,” White said. “He 
was a freshman that had a lot to learn.”
Stone played fewer than eight minutes per game until the 
coaching staff saw him become more disciplined on defense, moving his feet and not taking plays off. 
Senior point guard Kasey Hill said the rookie’s finally getting 
a chance to showcase his potential, and there's more to come.
“He just really hasn’t gotten a chance to really play that 
much," Hill said. "Now that he’s playing defense, he’s playing more."Stone-cold killerGrace King / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker poses following her vault during UF's 
win over Kentucky on Friday. She performed the last floor routine of the night, leading the Gators to a win. Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams goes for a layup during Florida's 81-62 loss to South Carolina on Jan. 8. The Gators are 0-5 in SEC play after a close loss to T exas A&M on Sunday. 
GYMNASTICS
Baker leading Gators  WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Ronni Williams still believes the Florida women’s basketball 
team can bounce back from its rough start to SEC play.
The Gators (9-9, 0-5 SEC) have lost their first five confer-
ence games for the first time since the 2006-07 season. Defeats 
at the hands of Auburn, LSU, South Carolina, Mississippi State 
and Texas A&M have UF sitting in dead last in the league stand-
ings, a drastic change from its fourth-place finish one year ago.
However, after Florida’s most recent loss to the Aggies on 
Sunday, Williams made a bold statement.
“We’ve gotta go 11-0 on this next run,” she said.While it’s highly unlikely the Gators will run the table to 
conclude the regular season, it can’t be completely ruled out with a player like Williams on the roster.
UF’s lone four-year senior has put the program on her back 
in recent weeks, averaging 20.8 points and 7.9 rebounds per game over her previous eight contests. Her 17.7 points-per-
game average this season is also good for second best in the 
SEC, earning her recognition as one of the conference's elite. 
And while one individual can’t be expected to carry a strug-
gling team out of the cellar, Williams believes if Florida contin-ues to trust the process, things will turn around.
“We just gotta keep sticking to our game plan, trusting our 
coaches, trusting ourselves, trusting our (teammates) and keep 
looking forward,” Williams said.UF trying to end funk  14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
FREEMAN MEMORIAL WOMEN'S  
TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS RESULTS 
Friday, Jan. 13
Singles First Round:
Anna Danilina defeated Dzina Milovanovic of Pepperdine 6-1, 6-3Spencer Liang defeated T aylor Davidson of  Stanford 6-2, 6-4Jana Hart of UCLA defeated Brooke Austin 6-4, 6-7, 7-6Ingrid Neel defeated Katarina Adamovic of Oklahoma State 7-5, 6-2
Doubles First Round:
Chalena Scholl/Kaitlyn McCarthy of Duke defeated Austin/Liang 6-4Danilina/Neel defeated Adamovic/Viktoriya Lushkova of Oklahoma State 6-3
Saturday, Jan. 14
Singles Second Round:Danilina defeated Alexa Graham of UNC 6-4, 6-1Mayar Sherif Ahmed of Pepperdine defeated Liang 6-2, 6-1Neel defeated Jessie Aney of UNC 7-6, 6-2
Singles Quarterfinals:
Ena Shibahara of UCLA defeated Danilina 7-5, 3-6, 6-4
Neel defeated Laura Gulbe of Pepperdine 6-0, 1-0 ret
Singles Second Round (Consolation)
Rachael James-Baker of UNC defeated Austin 5-7, 6-4, 10-7
Doubles Second Round
Neel/Danilina defeated Ena Shibahara/Jada Hart of UCLA 6-3
Doubles Second Round (Consolation)
Austin/Liang defeated Luisa Stefani/Jean Runglerdkriangkrai of 
Pepperdine 6-4
Sunday, Jan. 15
Singles SemifinalsMelissa Lord of Stanford defeated Neel 6-7, 6-4, 6-3
Doubles Consolation Semifinals
Aliona Bolsova/Sofia Bianco of OSU defeated Austin/Liang 7-6
Added Singles Matches
Danilina defeated Luisa Stefani of Pepperdine 7-6, 4-6, 7-5Carol Yang of UNLV defeated Liang 6-2, 5-7, 11-9Austin defeated Chloe Ouelett-Pizer of UNC 6-4, 6-4
Added Doubles Matches
Neel/Danilina defeated Luisa Stefani/Jean Runglerdkriangkrai of Pepperdine 7-5WEEKEND ROUNDUP 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 
THRIVES, TRACK TEAM 
IMPROVES.
Staff Report
Neel finds success at Freeman 
Memorial
Ingrid Neel has only been a stu-
dent at the University of Florida 
since Thursday. Nevertheless, the 
Gators’ women’s tennis team is al-
ready seeing the impact she can make. 
Top-ranked Florida made its 
Spring season debut in Las Vegas this weekend at the Freeman Me-morial Women’s Tennis Champion-ships hosted by UNLV. Neel saw the most success in the singles draw, 
taking down Oklahoma State’s Ka-
tarina Adamovic 7-5, 6-2, and upset-ting No. 9 Jessie Aney of UNC 7-6, 6-2 to make it to the semifinal round before her first collegiate run ended. Neel was defeated Sunday by de-fending national champion Melissa Lord of Stanford in a hard-fought 6-7, 6-4, 6-3 match. Lord went on to 
win the singles tournament. 
The Gators now have just under 
two weeks to rest and prepare for 
their match with DePaul on Jan. 28 to open the ITA Kick-Off Weekend tournament. Despite the time off, the Gators are expected to enter the tournament with momentum. 
On Thursday, Florida was se-
lected to win a conference title for a second straight time in the SEC pre-season coaches’ poll. Last year, the Gators were undefeated in the SEC and went on to win the program’s 20th SEC tournament title. 
This, combined with the 
unparalleled experience of the team and the early success of Neel, should 
give the team confidence going into 
the tournament. 
The Gators will open the day at 
2 p.m. against DePaul. The winner of that match will face the winner of FIU and USF at 2 p.m. on Sunday, Jan. 29.
- Spencer Thompson 
One-goal loss to USA shows 
strengths, weaknesses of UF 
lacrosse team
The score was tied. After con-
trolling most of the game, the U.S. Women’s National Team found it-self fighting to stay in the lead.
Florida was making a late run, 
taking a 19-18 lead off of two Sammi 
Burgess goals.
But with 2:20 left, USA’s Marie 
McCool caught a pass at the top 
of the box, shook senior defender Caroline Fitzgerald and shot it past sophomore Haley Hicklen for the game-winning goal.
While the final score was close 
— a good sign for Florida heading 
into its season opener against the 
University of North Carolina — the game was one-sided as the Gators struggled to keep up with a domi-nant performance by USA for most of Sunday afternoon.
But the odds were stacked 
against UF. 
Because the Gators were play-
ing a national team, the game was played with international rules, meaning that penalties lasted the duration of the time instead of end-ing when the opposing team scored a goal. 
The Gators were also playing 
against some of the best women’s lacrosse players in the country.
And it showed.From the early minutes, USA 
put the pressure on Florida, scoring eight goals within the first 14 min-
utes of the game.
In the first half, the national team 
had a lead as large as five, while the 
Gators only took the lead after net-ting the first goal of the game.
But no matter how far behind 
Florida was, it was never that far away. The Gators ended the first half with two goals. When trailing 
17-12 in the second half, Florida 
scored five straight goals, tying the game with nearly eight minutes left.
Three Gators finished the game 
with hat tricks. Attackers Burgess and junior Shayna Pirreca led all scorers with five goals. Sophomore attacker Lindsey Ronbeck added three, and senior midfielder Mollie 
Stevens tacked on two.
In goal, Hicklen kept Florida in 
the game, making a career-high 16 
saves in her first full-game start.
Even some of Florida’s freshmen 
contributed. Cara Trombetta got the start on defense, and Brianna Harris recorded a goal in the first half.
This was the second year that 
coach Amanda O’Leary scheduled her team to face the U.S. National Team in an exhibition, and the expe-rience has proven invaluable.
Last season, after losing to USA 
19-8, Florida went 18-1 in the reg-ular season and won the Big East Tournament. 
But this season, the Gators only 
lost 20-19, showing strength in fast scoring and working the ball around, both on offense and on clears. 
If Florida wants to start the 
season off with a win against UNC, 
however, it needs to work on 
limiting the mistakes it made this 
weekend, like the turnovers and sloppy ball control.
It has four weeks to do so.
- Jake DreilingerDistance runners find 
moderate success at Commodore 
Invitational
Jack Guyton hadn’t run in a 
track meet since mid-2016, but that didn’t affect him when he was back on the rubber this weekend. 
The redshirt freshman, who 
posted a time of 4:02.37, was good enough on Day 2 of the Commodore Invitational to place second in the mile. 
Guyton’s mile time — the fastest 
by a Gator since 2011 — ranks No. 8 on Florida’s all-time indoor top 10. 
In the same event, senior Andres 
Arroyo topped his personal-best mile time by seven-and-a-half sec-onds to place 11th, followed by red-shirt sophomore Jack Beitter (15th), redshirt junior Carlos Miranda (18th) and sophomore Jack Rogers, who finished 33rd in his collegiate debut. 
In the women’s mile, senior Tay-
lor Tubbs placed fourth with a time of 4:47.00, while freshman Hannah Brookover placed sixth in her col-legiate debut. Sophomore Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell posted a time of 4:57.79   — fast enough for a ninth place finish, securing her spot as the third Florida runner in the top 10. 
Meanwhile, in the men’s 
5,000-meters, redshirt sophomore Mac McCoy and sophomore Nick Diaz placed 4th and 13th, respec-tively. And on the women’s side, freshman Jessica Pascoe and sopho-more Maddox Peterson placed 4th and 6th. 
As for mid-distance running, 
freshman Justin Pacifico led the 
three Gators making their collegiate 
debuts in the 800-meter with a sev-enth-pace finish. Pacifico was fol-lowed by sophomore Kyren Hollis, who finished 11th, and Sam Ahren-holz in 14th. 
The Florida men’s 400-meter 
relay team finished fifth.
Up next for the team, UF will 
travel to Blacksburg, Virginia, to compete in the Hokie Invitational on Jan. 20-21.
- Daniel Smithson 
UF lacrosse falls to U.S. National Team  
Alligator File Photo
Jack Guyton (left) runs in the Mountain Dew Invitational on Sept. 
19, 2016, at the Mark Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville.
Alligator File Photo
Attacker Sammi Burgess tries to score in UF’s 12-11 win against Michigan on Feb. 13, 2016, in Gainesville.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2017
Kennedy Baker's scores 
from Friday’s meet:
Vault: 9.875
Bars: 9.90Beam:
 9.875
Floor:  9.925
All-Around:  39.575IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION 
On Sunday afternoons, the TV was on.
There was my dad — beer in hand, tuned to 
CBS or FOX, watching the weekend’s NFL games.
My father loved football. I didn’t. But, then 
again, I was probably around 7 or 8 years old, and 
football interested me just as much as ﬁ  ling for tax 
returns did.
“You’ll like it when you get older,” my father 
told me.
I remember that conversation so vividly, partly 
because it came true. Football became my favorite sport growing up. I was instilled with a love for the Miami Dolphins and the Miami Hurricanes, and a deep-rooted hatred for the New York Jets. The god-
damn New York Jets.
But now I hate all of it.
Now, NFL football is boring. Things have 
changed about the sport, and while I’m tempted to say it’s just me, that these are the consequences of growing older and developing different interests, of growing more cynical and more suspicious and less easily entertained by the things that used to in-terest me, there are certain undeniable facts about 
the NFL that are impossible to ignore.
It’s dangerous. It’s irresponsible. And with ev-
ery passing year, it only seems to grow more so.
Yet, it has never been more popular.
Football players are larger, stronger, faster and 
quicker than they have ever been. And that goes 
with every sport — baseball, soccer, hockey, bas-ketball. It’s evolution. There’s a running joke in sports circles that, if there existed a time machine 
and one could take back Kevin Durant or LeBron James and place them on a 1920s basketball court, onlookers would certainly burn them at the stake 
for witchcraft.
And nowhere is that more evident than in foot-
ball, a sport where stronger athletes translates to 
more powerful hits and more gruesome injuries.  
Every time I see a thudding collision or a blind-
side tackle, or a brief pause in a game because a stretcher has to be wheeled out onto a ﬁ  eld to carry off an unconscious player, I can’t help but think 
how it will affect that person’s life 10 or 20 years 
from now. Over the last decade, scientists have discovered CTE (Chronic Traumatic Encephalopa-thy), a disease which slowly degenerates the brain and is likely caused by concussions or too many blows to the head.
In a well publicized story, a 2015 Boston 
University research group studied the brains of 91 deceased former NFL players. Eighty-seven of 
them had CTE.
This is nothing new.
And the NFL is doing nothing. Which makes 
sense. They are a business with business interests. They’re in it for the money.
It’s why they continue to play Thursday Night 
Football, a practice in barbarism that takes the most gruesome aspects of the sport — little rest (both teams play the game on three days of rest 
instead of the usual six) and injuries (often teams 
shoot up players with painkillers to march their sore bodies out on the ﬁ  eld, turning them into a numb bulk of muscle) — and turns them into our entertainment.
But is it really entertainment when many of the 
games are either boring or blowouts (the average margin of victory in this season’s playoffs has been 
about 14.4 points) and grown men are crippling their bodies?
And yes, I hear the counter argument. These 
players get paid millions of dollars. They signed up 
for this. They knew what they were getting into.
But, in fact, a vast majority of the players don’t 
want Thursday Night Football. All-Pro Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman wrote a column in December for the Players’ Tribune, a media outlet for athletes to express themselves instead of indirectly through reporters, explaining why Thursday Night Football is cruel and horriﬁ  c, and why almost every player in the NFL wants it out of their lives.
The funny thing is, to most of you, this is obvi-
ous. We’re supporting a dangerous sport, whose members have a shortened life expectancy, whose employers care little for their personal health and safety, and whose quality of product has severely diminished because of it.
So, what to do?Eliminate Thursday Night games. Insert more 
bye weeks, giving each team two or three weeks 
off during the season to rest instead of just one. 
Shorten the preseason from four to two games, shorten the regular season from 16 to 14 or even to 12 games.
Yes, this means less football for all of us. But, 
in the end, the players will be healthier, lives could be saved and, selﬁ  shly, the quality of entertain-ment that we receive each week will be much bet-ter, as the most athletic people on the planet will 
actually receive time for their bodies to heal before 
they recklessly ram into each other for the sake of our fandom.
Until that happens, I don’t see why I’ll ever be 
tempted to sit down for three hours to watch a di-minished, primitive product every Sunday.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. His column 
appears on Tuesdays. Contact him at icohen@
alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @icohenb. For the sake of everyone involved, make the NFL safer
the share of both a beam and 
ﬂ  oor tile.
Going forward, Baker will 
continue to be an integral part of 
the Gators’ lineup, counting this Friday when Florida travels to 
Chapel Hill for a rematch against 
the Tar Heels, who UF defeated 
198.05 to 193.725 in that last 2016 meeting.
Florida leads the all-time se-
ries 20-1.
“We train in a way that 
the girls are prepared and 
self-sufﬁ  cient,” coach Jenny 
Rowland said. 
“They come to a meet and are 
ready to go.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg13UF faces 
UNC this 
Friday
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb