We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator2016-17 Gators season 
in review
UF had a successful year that featured 
three national championships, pg. 14GPD: Man shoots, kills girlfriend
The victim warned her father days earlier, pg. 4
Shoplifter spared by ACSO deputy
Instead of arresting him, he paid for his food, pg. 4By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF diver was arrested Tuesday after po-
lice said she slapped her ex-boyfriend multiple 
times in the parking lot next to James G. Pressly Stadium.
Emma Reade Whitner, an 
18-year-old UF exploratory freshman and diver on UF’s 2017-18 Women’s Swimming & Diving team roster, was in 
the parking lot at about 3 a.m. with her ex-boyfriend when she began striking him on the face with her open hand, ac-cording to a University Police 
arrest report.
Hunter William Tres Santiago, 21, told police 
the two were verbally arguing before Whitner struck him. Police noticed multiple red marks and scratches on Santiago’s face, according to the report.
Both Whitner and Santiago told police they 
had been dating for about a year and a half be-fore breaking up about three months ago, ac-cording to the report.
Whitner was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail shortly after her arrest, where she was re-leased on her own recognizance at about 1:17 p.m. Tuesday.
She faces a charge of battery.Whitner, who graduated in May from Lake 
Highland Preparatory School, committed to UF last Fall, according to a YCF Diving Central Flor-ida Facebook post.
“The UAA is aware of this situation, and it 
is being handled internally,” wrote Katie Cal-
lahan, a UF Swimming & Diving spokesperson, in an email.VOLUME 111 ISSUE 158 THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Hours after the Fourth of July’s end, 
three separate drive-by shootings took 
place in Gainesville.
Police are now working to determine 
if the shootings are related.
The ﬁ  rst drive-by shooting occurred 
Wednesday morning at about 2 a.m. at the 900 block of Northwest Fourth Place. In an email, Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote that the ﬁ  rst victim, who was in a parked car, was not hurt.
About an hour later, police received 
reports of another shooting less than 
two miles away from the ﬁ  rst. While 
in her car at the 300 block of Northeast 11th Street, a woman in her late 20s was shot in the neck by the suspect, who was in his/her respective vehicle. The woman is expected to survive her injuries, Tobias said.
Shortly after the second drive-by 
shooting, at 3:45 a.m., a group of people standing outside of a parked car at the 200 block of Southwest Sixth Avenue were shot at by a passing vehicle, To-bias said.
One man was shot in the torso and 
leg, with his injuries being considered serious, Tobias said. 
Tobias said drive-by shootings in 
Gainesville are rare.
“We don’t have any reason to be-
lieve the shootings are in any way con-nected to the (Fourth of July) holiday,” he said. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org GPD: 3 separate drive-
by shootings injure 2
Whitner
Courtesy to the Alligator
Evelyn Foxx, the president of the Alachua County branch of the NAACP , found a Confederate ﬂ  ag on her front 
lawn on Monday at about 6:30 a.m. when she stepped out for her morning walk with a friend. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Evelyn Foxx’s early-
morning walks with her friend 
Meg usually go uninterrupted, 
but Monday morning she 
stepped outside her house to a crumpled-up Confederate ﬂ  ag on her property. 
Foxx, the president of 
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People’s Alachua County branch, said she left her 
house at about 6:30 a.m. and 
noticed the ﬂ  ag immediately.
“It was right on my front 
lawn,” she said. 
Foxx called police at 
about 6:48 a.m., and ofﬁ  cers are investigating the issue, wrote Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias in an email. 
“We are looking into the 
incident more before we make 
a determination on the actual 
crime,” Tobias said. 
Foxx said she’s 
disappointed about the presence of the ﬂ  ag — but 
not surprised. Having ﬁ  rst assumed her role as president in 2010, Foxx said she’s had her life threatened a number of times.
She said she sees Monday 
morning’s incident as both an attack on her character and 
her organization. 
“I’m very, very upset to 
walk out of my door and ﬁ  nd 
something like that on the day before the Fourth of July,” 
Foxx said.  
For David McCallister, a 
spokesperson for the Florida 
branch of the Save Southern 
Heritage group, Monday’s 
incident was a complete misuse of the ﬂ  ag.
McCallister, 64, said he 
feels the Confederate ﬂ  ag 
is a symbol of heritage 
and American veterans, and should be displayed in public spaces, monuments, 
cemeteries and veterans 
events. 
It shouldn’t, however, be 
used to intimidate others, McCallister said.
“Using any symbol of 
the South, like the ﬂ  ag, to intimidate anybody else is reprehensible, it’s awful,” 
McCallister said. “It’s a crime, 
and it’s terrible.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Confederate ﬂ  ag found on lawn of local NAACP president
She said she was upset, but not surprised
UPD: Student athlete arrested 
after striking ex-boyfriend
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Creative B Movie Series: ‘Things 
to Come’
Join a panel of scientists, artists and special effects experts to view and discuss “Things to Come,” an 
unrated film released in 1936, at 
the Florida Museum of Natural History on Friday at 7 p.m. The museum will host an opening reception at 6 p.m. Every Friday night in July, the museum and Creative B will screen free movies and explore the balance between science and art. The museum’s 
permanent exhibits will be open to the public for extended hours 
until 10 p.m. For more informa-tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/creative-b-things-to-come.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
GatormaniaThe largest summer event on campus, Gatormania 2017, will be Saturday from noon to 3 p.m. on the North Lawn. Start Summer B with free food, giveaways and live performances showcasing a variety of student organizations 
and campus partners. For more 
information, visit studentinvolve-ment.ufl.edu.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  93° LOW  72°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 158
1
1312111098765432The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 7.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
July 10 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on July 27 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Hundreds gather on ﬁ  elds outside the Hal Brady Recreation Complex, at 14300 NW 146 T errace,  to 
watch the City of Alachua ﬁ  reworks on the Fourth of July.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Instead of arresting a shoplifter at 
a Publix in southwest Gainesville on 
Sunday, an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputy paid the balance of the stolen items — and let the man go.
ACSO spokesperson Sgt. Chris 
Sims said Deputy Robert Townsend responded to a shoplifting call where a man attempted to take several food items from the grocery store, which totaled a little more than $5. The man was compliant, 
admitting to Townsend that he took the items because he was extremely hungry and did not have a penny to his name, Sims said. 
Townsend re-
ally felt for the 
man, Sims said. 
Sims said the 
deputy spoke 
privately with the Publix loss prevention ofﬁ  cer who caught the man to ask if he could pay for the items himself, so the man could have something to eat.
After coming to an agreement, 
Townsend pulled out his wallet and paid for the food items, Sims said. 
In the security footage released on 
the Alachua County Sheriff Facebook page, the shoplifter appears to be crying as he thanks the deputy for helping him out instead of sending him to jail.
“We had a deputy who took 
himself away from law enforcement for just a split second, long enough to see the human side of this gentleman, to see that this gentleman was truly in need,” Sims said. 
Sims said Townsend, who has 
been with ACSO for seven years, has done this a number of times in the 
past. Sims said Townsend does not 
like to receive public recognition, claiming that he is just doing his job.
“He’s got a soft heart, and he also 
is a great character reader,” Sims said. “He knows when a person is really just down on their luck versus being a criminal.”
The ACSO is committed to 
serving others, Sims said, adding that Townsend’s actions reﬂ  ect positively on all the deputies and the community as a whole. 
“This is such a classic example of 
serving others,” he said. “Thinking outside the box, knowing that there’s an alternative and that not everyone is committing a crime simply because they are a criminal.” 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
Alachua County deputy helps shoplifter, doesn’t arrest
T ownsend
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Five days after warning her father 
about her safety, Eukelia Tershell Davis was found dead with three gunshot wounds on her boyfriend’s bedroom ﬂ  oor.
“If something ever happens to 
me. Pablo J Johnson September 3 1965 did it! I love u,” Davis wrote in a text message to her father June 24, according to a Gainesville Police 
arrest report.
GPD found Davis’ body June 
29 in her boyfriend’s apartment, at 
2841 SW 37th Place, with a gunshot wound in her left bicep, right fore-arm and the center of her back, ac-cording to the report. Ofﬁ  cers said the two shots in her arms were likely the result of her raising them in a de-
fensive position.
Police arrested Davis’ boyfriend, 
51-year-old Pablo Jermaris Johnson, 
at the Malcom Randall Veterans Af-fairs Center last week after an em-ployee called to tell police about Johnson’s strange behavior, accord-ing to the report.
According to 
the report, the employee told po-lice Johnson told 
her “he messed up real bad and thinks he might go to prison,” de-scribing how he 
got into a “ﬁ  ght” 
with a woman on the night of June 
28 — and that she wasn’t breathing.
GPD’s records showed that May 
3, 2016, Davis told police that John-son had threatened to “shoot her” and “punch her in the nose.”
Nearby residents told police they 
heard “taps” at about 5:30 a.m. June 29 that they believed to be gunshots, according the report.
Johnson told police that he and 
Davis had been dating for four years and that the relationship had be-come increasingly violent over time. He told police the couple fought the night of June 28 and that Davis 
struck him on his left eyebrow. Ac-
cording to the report, Johnson told police he asked Davis to leave his apartment when she then grabbed his “bag.”According to the report, during 
his interview with police, Johnson shook his head and said, “It hap-
pened so fast … it just happened so 
fast.”
Police said at no time did John-
son say or tell others that he acted in self-defense against Davis, according to the report.
As of Wednesday evening, John-
son is being held in the Alachua County Jail without bond.
He faces a charge of premeditated 
murder of the ﬁ  rst degree.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Gainesville man arrested for killing girlfriend, police say
Johnson
THE VICTIM WARNED 
HER FATHER ABOUT 
HER BOYFRIEND 
DAYS EARLIER.THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History’s dueling ant stat-
ues have a new home.
“X” and “O,” which were 
loaned to the UF College of the Arts in 2015, were given back to Susan Cochran, the artist.
The college did not have the 
money to buy them, and there 
is currently nothing picked as 
their replacement.
Jennifer Coolidge, the col-lege’s director of development and alumni affairs, said they fell in love with Cochran’s work after meeting her, and they appreciated the marriage of art and science portrayed in the piece.
Cochran’s intent was for 
the statues to show two ants mating. However, Darcie Mac-Mahon, the director of exhib-its and public programs at the Florida Museum, said that is 
not the case.
“While we don’t know the speciﬁ  c species of ants, you 
can tell from the sculptures and their postures that they would have been queens who were ﬁ  ghting,” she said.
Coolidge said the museum 
and college held movie screen-ing events and study groups in-spired by the statues, and they were a visual staple for the museum’s thousands of visitors each year.
“We were just pleased to 
keep them in Gainesville for a time,” she said.Florida Museum says goodbye 
to beloved, dueling ant statues
Ben Anderson / Alligator Staff
The Florida Museum of Natural History’s ant statues, “X” and “O, ” were given 
back to the artist after spending two years in Gainesville.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a convicted felon Friday af-
ter he admitted to accidentally shooting a man 
while drunk in his house two weeks ago.
Michael Hannigan, 34, Shane Russell and a 
woman were at Hannigan’s house, located at 
6603 NW 30th Terrace, June 20 when he took 
out a .38 caliber derringer pistol and began handling it while drinking alcohol, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report.
At about 3 p.m., the pistol went off, striking 
Russell in the torso. According to the report, the victim asked Hannigan and the woman to call the police — but Hannigan decided not to, given his status as a convicted felon.
In 2004, Hannigan was charged with vio-
lently resisting an ofﬁ  cer.
Hannigan and the woman then placed Rus-
sell in the back seat of her car and drove to the nearest Walmart on Northwest 23rd Street. They dropped Russell in the parking lot near the front entrance, according to the report. 
On his way to Walmart, Russell called 911 
begging for help and told the operator he was about to die, according to the report. 
Police identiﬁ  ed Hannigan and the witness 
in relation to the incident June 22. According 
to the report, Hannigan turned over the gun, 
which he had hid inside a speaker in his house.
At ﬁ  rst, both Hannigan and the woman told 
police Russell shot himself. They later admit-ted to lying and said it was Hannigan who ac-cidentally shot Russell, according to the report. 
As of Wednesday evening, Hannigan re-
mains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $285,000 bond. He faces charges of culpable negligence, possession of a weapon as a con-victed felon and tampering with evidence. 
Russell’s condition is unknown and po-
lice are investigating the woman’s role in the incident, said GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. While drinking, police say felon accidentally shot manThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Democrats have been criticized from within their 
own ranks for focusing on the issue of Russian interference in the 2016 election when an eco-nomic message could be more effective against Republicans, who are in the middle of pushing an 
extremely unpopular health care bill through Congress. In his testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee earlier last month, former FBI Director James Comey in-sisted that all Americans should be concerned about the prospect of a foreign power influencing the outcome of a Democratic election. He told the committee,  “It’s not about Republicans or Democrats. They’re coming after America, which I hope we all love equally. They want to undermine our credibility in the face of the world.”
But there’s no denying that the issue can feel remote; it 
only directly concerns officials at the highest levels of the Russian and American governments, along with anony-mous computer hackers on the other side of the world. The principal victims were former Secretary of State Hill-ary Clinton and high-ranking members of her campaign, hardly avatars for the average American. And, oh yeah, it all happened seven months ago — there’s a great tempta-tion, especially if you support the president, to believe the past is in the past and Democrats should move on.
The trouble with that line of thinking is that Russia’s 
interference operation is not in the past. Former CIA di-rector John Brennan said in May that Russia could try to interfere in the 2018 midterm elections in the U.S. Such an operation would broadly differ from the 2016 attacks in two ways: First, Russia could intervene on behalf of candidates from both parties, depending on who would best serve their interests, and second, the attacks could have a deeper impact at the local and state level.
This serves to underscore the continued importance of the Russia issue to the American voter. Russian presi-dent Vladimir Putin’s campaign to undermine American democracy did not end in 2016: It is ongoing, and some Republicans may soon find themselves in the same posi-tion Democrats were in last year. 
Moreover, the more involved Russia becomes in state 
and local elections, the greater the chance this issue will have a tangible effect on ordinary citizens. Russia’s ac-tions aren’t just a threat to some abstract notion of demo-cratic choice or electoral integrity — when these hackers get into voter rolls, they gain access to voters’ personal information.
Particularly troubling were the reports Thursday that 
Russian hackers were able to access and alter state and local election databases in 2016, in some cases stealing voters’ driver’s license and Social Security numbers. Ad-ditionally, it emerged last week that the Russians targeted Dallas County voter registration rolls during the election last year — so this is an issue that should matter to Tex-ans, specifically. If they can do this in Dallas, they can do it in Austin, Houston, San Antonio and more.
Russia intervened in the 2016 U.S. presidential elec-
tion. That much has been concluded with high confidence by the intelligence community, and even begrudgingly admitted by the president himself, on whose behalf the Russians intervened. But it’s not enough to acknowledge this fact: local, state and federal officials should be do-ing everything they can to prepare for future attempts at interference, by Russia or by any other foreign agent. As Comey himself warned in his testimony, “they will be back.”
A version of this column by Sam Groves originally ran 
in the Daily Texan.
Issues with Russia should matter to ordinary 
citizens, not just politiciansColumnEditorial
Politicians should 
be professional on 
social media
As President Donald Trump gained popularity, the infor-
mational canal politicians use to reach the American people changed. Instead of news briefings, profession-al interviews and dignified speeches, politicians have turned to Twitter as their main form of communication 
with their constituents. 
At first glance, using social media to communicate with the 
country seems like a genius idea. Almost everyone is on it, and reading 140 characters is easier than watching a 30-minute news-cast or reading a 500-word article. The problem, however, is that politicians are losing their professionalism when they rely on Twitter to relay information.
On July 4, Nikki Haley, the current U.S. Ambassador to the 
United Nations, tweeted out something less than patriotic. The 
tweet stated, “Spending my 4th in meetings all day. #Thanks-
NorthKorea.” The sarcastic and disrespectful complaint left us in disbelief. On a day meant to celebrate our nation, Haley had the audacity to complain about her job serving the American people. She showed little respect for our nation within 54 characters.
Never have we seen politicians be so blatantly honest about 
the discontent they feel for their job. Then again, never have poli-ticians been encouraged to use social media to connect with the public.
In the past, politicians have used social media purely for 
promotional reasons, their accounts controlled by someone in a communications or public relations department. This ensured a level of professionalism for their social media posts that most people would not have. As a result, it was easy to tell the differ-ence between a tweet from the president about foreign diplomacy and a tweet from your best friend Becky about a fight she had with her boyfriend. 
Nowadays, the tweets might as well be identical.
Trump regularly uses Twitter to comment on issues that 
someone of his position should be paying little attention to. He 
calls out celebrities and pokes fun at other politicians. He pub-lishes statements without confirming their validity. He attacks those who don’t support him. He shares every thought that runs through his mind.
Tweeting these types of things is fine, of course, for someone 
who is not the president.
Even college students are able to understand the importance 
of their presence on social media. Many of us have separate pro-fessional and personal accounts. Occasionally we post things we wouldn’t want a boss to see. The difference? We have the com-mon sense to control who views our content and the decency to filter what we post. 
Haley’s recent blunder is just one example of Trump-era 
politicians following suit with the immaturity our president has shown on social media. It’s important to note this issue is not one of liberals versus conservatives. Both Democrats and Republicans 
are guilty of representing themselves poorly on social media.
We realize these politicians probably think they are doing 
America a favor. Unfortunately their thought process is vastly 
flawed. While they want to appear more relatable to their constit-uents, we simply need distance from politicians. We don’t elect them to be our friends, we elect them to represent our nation in an honorable way. When they act out on social media, they fail us. Politicians need to uphold a higher level of professionalism, and they need to express a level of respect for all of their constitu-
ents, not just their supporters.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
High Dive’s ‘90s night
Two tribute bands will perform at the event Saturday, pg. 9Tunes released in June
Find out what music you should listen to, pg. 10By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
When a cat showed up at Flow 
Space yoga studio, the owners 
named it Melty. 
It garnered its name because 
it would sprawl onto the ground when the owners bent down to pet it, inviting them to rub its bel-
ly. Melty lives outside the studio 
now, but later this week herds of kittens just like it will be running across the studio ﬂ  oor. 
“It’s kind of ironic timing,” said 
Maggie Rucker, an instructor and manager at the studio, of Melty. “Maybe (Melty) felt the vibes, I don’t know.” 
Flow Space will host an inter-
active kitten yoga session Sunday at 2 p.m. at the studio, located at 117 NW 16th Ave. Half of the pro-ceeds from the event will beneﬁ  t 
the Alachua County Humane Soci-
ety, which is providing the kittens, said Rucker. 
Flow Space gives different 
classes during the week, catering to different levels of yoga exper-tise. While it has hosted other in-teractive yoga classes, it has never hosted a class with live animals. When leading classes where the 
focus isn’t just on the yoga, Ruck-
er said it’s helpful to plan what postures will go best with the en-vironment. 
“I’ve planned sort of gentle 
postures you can hold for awhile where the cats have the opportu-nity to be in your lap or on your back or on your belly,” Rucker 
said. “You can interact with them 
and not get out of sync with the rest of the class.”
After seeing how much atten-
tion an interactive class like kitten yoga was getting, she decided to partner with the humane society 
to provide an interesting class and 
help some cats ﬁ  nd permanent homes. 
Because of the stress-relieving 
qualities that animals can have, kittens in the class would be a welcome distraction for her. The class will have a slow-paced na-ture, which makes it perfect for beginners. 
“We’re just going to have a re-
ally good time and make it light-hearted,” she said. “It’s not going to be an intense yoga class — it’s 
going to be really gentle; we don’t 
want to step on the cats.”
The studio has sold out the 
event, with 40 people expected to attend. They may sell a limited 
number of spots at the door to en-
sure enough room for the kittens to roam. 
The purpose of the event is 
twofold: to bring people together for a relaxing, stress-relieving time and to raise awareness for pet adoption in the community. Margot DeConna, the director 
of development for the Alachua 
County Humane Society, said the shelter will be offering a suggested adoption donation, instead of an 
adoption fee at the event, meaning 
people can donate whatever they are able. 
DeConna said the shelter tried 
to hold a kitten yoga event in the 
past at their facility but didn’t have 
the space for both people and cats. She said there are currently about 70 adoptable cats at the shelter.
Even if people are not able to 
make it to the class to adopt a cat, the humane society will extend the donation special to the cats at the shelter throughout the day of 
the event. DeConna said having 
the event at Flow Space is great publicity for the shelter because of the high number of kittens born during the summer.  
“That’s typical for all the shel-
ters in our area,” she said. “As soon as the weather warms up, we start seeing literally hundreds 
of litters of kittens.” 
About 20 kittens will be at the 
event, mostly ranging from 2-to-
6 months old. Most of the kittens aren’t coordinated yet, so they are learning how to jump and play while some people will be learn-
ing yoga poses.
DeConna said she hopes this 
event will solidify Alachua Coun-ty’s position as a no-kill communi-
ty and bring attention to the work 
the shelter does in maintaining 
that.
“What we’re working towards 
when we do events like this is to try to get animals into homes and 
try to get people to know what the 
humane society does and to view us a resource and to continue con-sider adopting pets,” she said.
THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Flow Space yoga studio is partnering with the Alachua County Humane Society to host Kitten Yoga. The event is sold out with 40 people expected to attend.
Kitten yoga, adoption event helps humane society
LOCAL
“As soon as the weather 
warms up, we start seeing 
literally hundreds of litters of 
kittens.”
Margot DeConna
Alachua County Humane Society 
Director of Development•   •   ••   •   •
• Hours:  Thursday through 
Sunday, noon to 6 p.m.
• Phone: 352-373-5855
• “Kitten Season”: April to 
October
• Strays: Feral kittens can be taken to the humane society to be fostered or put up for adoption.
• Foster: Fill out an applica-tion at alachuahumane.org to foster a kitten. The hu-mane society will provide all the necessary supplies. Potential fosterers can also join the Alachua County Humane Society Fosters Facebook page.Alachua Humane Society8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
By Victoria Pavlock
Avenue Contributing Writer
A Gainesville record label will be releas-
ing an album by a newly-signed pop duo from 
Paris this summer.
The artists, Joachim Polack and Juliette Da-
vis, met when they were 14 years old as they 
were growing up in Paris. They followed their 
shared love of music to Gainesville, Polack said.
Polack and Davis both received their mas-
ter’s degree in music and musicology from Par-is-Sorbonne University. After they graduated, Polack realized he was not ready to stop his musical education, he said.
The two realized their passion for Brazilian 
music at the age of 17, and Polack always had a dream to study the genre, he said.
Polack discovered that UF’s doctoral pro-
gram in music has a specialization in Brazilian music and studies, so two years ago he moved to Gainesville and began working toward his Ph.D., he said.
Polack said the Brazilian bossa nova music 
of the ‘60s attempted to achieve a young, fresh 
sound that incorporated jazz harmonies and 
classical music with Brazilian folkloric harmo-nies. This attention to composition is some-thing he said he channels in his own music.
“To a lot of people it now sounds like eleva-
tor music, bossa nova, but to me it’s like the most beautiful thing in the world,” he said.
Davis said a year after Polack moved to 
Gainesville, she followed him, and the two 
started their band, Pearl & The Oysters.
Davis said, “When he told me he was going 
to the states, I was like OK, why not?”
Not long after Davis came to Gainesville, 
she and Polack were picked up by Elestial 
Sound, a Gainesville-based record label, she said.
Rob Kowalski, the label manager for Elestial Sound, said when the label found Davis and Polack, they knew they had something special, and they helped to connect them with other Gainesville musicians so they could start their 
band.
“It’s a very nostalgic, pop type of thing that 
makes you think of Stereolab or broadcast,” 
Kowalski said. “It’s cute and idiosyncratic, and it doesn’t take itself too seriously, which is why I’m a big fan.”
Elestial Sound was established in 2011 with 
the simple intention of putting out friends’ mu-sic in Gainesville, Kowalski said.
Today it has grown to include about 50 ac-
tive graphic designers, visual artists and musi-cians throughout the years, he said.
Elestial Sound describes itself as a coop-eratively owned record label for future art that specializes in large-scale multimedia instal-lations and immersive performance environ-ments, Kowalski said.
The label broke ground on a multimillion-
dollar headquarters this May, which will in-clude two professional recording studios, a fabrication studio for installations, a few artist apartments and art studios, he said.
“Joining our label is turning a key to art-
ist development,” Kowalski said. “It’s really nurturing, and there is a community of people who are there to engage with the musician. It’s 
not about the notoriety or fame or money ei-
ther, it’s purely about nurturing the artist com-munity.”
When the art community received wind of Pearl & The Oysters, they were booked as headliners for a fundraiser performance that occurred in April for the Gainesville Under-
ground Theatre Festival, said Tyler Francis-
chine, the director of marketing and communi-cations for the festival.
“I think they’re absolutely incredible, and 
that’s coming from someone who’s spent 10 years in Gainesville with this music scene,” Francischine said.
For Polack and Davis, their performance at 
the fundraiser was their ﬁ  rst live show in the 
U.S. They had performed with bands in Paris, 
but never in Gainesville, Polack said.
He said there is a sense of spontaneity and 
collaboration in Gainesville that he never felt growing up in Paris.
“People are willing to give time and put out 
the best of themselves and their creativity, in Paris it was harder to be taken seriously if your art wasn’t dark and mysterious,” he said.
Polack said he and Davis began recording 
their new album in Paris and ﬁ  nished it upon arriving in Gainesville.
“The album coming out this summer is like 
a geographical fantasy world that we made up in a very transitional moment in our lives be-cause we were moving,” he said. “I was fanta-sizing about what Florida would be like from old ads and movies. The whole premise behind 
the album was to kind of reconcile this weird 
geographical paradox.”
One of the singles from the album, “Vita-
min D,” was released in late June on a 17-track compilation of Elestial Sound artists, with the rest of their album, titled “w/ Pearl & The Oys-ters,” set to be released Sept. 15.
Polack said they didn’t expect anything 
when they moved to Gainesville.
“Actually, that’s a lie,” Davis said. “We 
looked on Wikipedia before we came here. It said Gainesville was the No. 1 place to start a band in America, so I knew we’d be alright.”Local record label to release album from Paris-born duo
MUSIC
Photo by Ian Clontz
Pearl & The Oysters performing at a fundraiser earlier this spring for the 
Gainesville Underground Theatre Festival, which will happen in July.
THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.org
WILDLIFE
CROSSINGWelcom/e.end Bac/k.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s ﬁrst issue of the fall semester. 
Place the same ad in both our New Student and Welcome Back editions and take advantage of our 10% pickup discount.
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep Toda/y.end!
352-376-4482 · Alligator Advertising ·  advertising@alligator.org
Courtesy to the Alligator
High Dive will host Weeze and Grind, two ’90s 
tribute bands, for their 90s night on SaturdayBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Contributing Writer
On Saturday, High Dive will be 
celebrating the ‘90s with two tribute 
bands ready to bring the house down.
High Dive will have Weeze, a local 
Weezer tribute band, performing with 
Grind, an Alice in Chains tribute group 
based out of South Carolina.
The concert will be held from 10 
p.m. to 1 a.m., with doors opening at 9 p.m. Tickets are $8 in advance and $10 at the door, with a $3 fee charged at the door for those under the age of 21. Grind is scheduled to open the show, followed by Weeze to bring it home.
Weeze is made up of four mem-
bers: Niles Austin on guitar and vo-cals; Kenneth Noble on drums; Jacob McCravy on bass and vocals; and Jon McCravy on guitar, keys and vocals. The band came together in 2013 over a mutual love of Weezer and playing music.
Jon McCravy said he and the band 
“try to stay true to the record 90 per-
cent of the time,” but they “take lib-
erties into making some of the songs (their) own.”
Grind’s lead singer Gary Allen said the band’s four members are all about staying true to Alice in Chains and work hard to stay authentic. The band 
is comprised of Allen, guitarist Rob 
Montebello, bassist Billy Price and drummer David Corbett. 
Although Grind isn’t local, they 
have a signiﬁ  cant link to the commu-nity. When Allen’s daughter was born with life-threatening complications, she was treated at UF Health Shands Hospital. For Allen, this show is about 
giving back to Gainesville.
“The University of Florida indi-
rectly saved my daughter’s life,” Allen 
said. High Dive to hold ‘90s tribute night
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
June has been another month 
of epic releases from all across the 
music scene, giving every type of listener a new track to jam along to. Here are some noteworthy albums 
released in June that you should add 
to your playlist.  
“Grateful” by DJ KhaledAlthough I am quickly getting sick 
of hearing the typical DJ Khaled intro of “We the best music” and “Anoth-er one,” his new album is worth it. With tracks that vary in sound, this album is the perfect party playlist.
His collaboration with Jay Z 
and Beyoncé, “Shining,” is the 
soundtrack to any pregame or sum-
mertime workout.  
“Wild Thoughts” brings together 
Latin-style guitar picking with a simple beat and the vocal stylings of Rihanna and Bryson Tiller. 
Overall, this album is full of 
collaborations with the industry’s heavy-weights and deserves a full 
listen.
“Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1” by 
Calvin Harris
Electronic dance music artist Cal-vin Harris is ushering in a new era 
of EDM with his album “Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1.”
The album itself is full of top-
notch collaborations with artists like Ariana Grande, Pharrell Williams and Frank Ocean. With each track, Harris alters the sound of the song to cater to the style and specialties of each artist.
“Holiday,” a collaboration with 
rap legend Snoop Dogg, John Legend 
and Takeoff, is a great blend of old-
school rap, rhythm and blues and modern hip-hop.
Harris’ album brings the listener’s attention back to well-executed EDM music.
“LANY” by LANY
For fans of alternative pop bands 
like The 1975, check out Los Ange-
les-based band LANY’s self-titled album. In an era of music over-run with heavily produced tracks, LANY brings the focus back to smooth in-strumentals and gentle vocals.
The album has a variation of up-
beat tracks with a psychedelic vibe 
and slower, more somber tunes. 
“Pancakes” has an echo of the 
song that adds an emotional depth to 
the nostalgic breakup song all listen-ers can resonate with.
“Tampa,” which resonates with 
anyone going through a life crisis, 
has a lyrical repetition that would be 
lackluster in most songs with such a somber tempo. But when matched with frontman Paul Klein’s vocals and soft instrumentals, the song works.   
Often when artists add too many 
layers to their songs, an aspect is overshadowed. However, LANY has 
carefully curated each song.
The simplicity of this album 
makes LANY deserving of a spot on 
your playlist.
June is ﬁ  lled with new releases to add to any playlistBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●
Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 
mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad 
student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share 
utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-
17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, 
Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-
9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-
167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-14-25-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
** LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION **
1 and 2 bedroom apartments all located close to UF and Downtown. All unique and some with paid utilities. Call 352-870-2760.    8-21-177-13-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
1. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of kangaroos called?
2. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
tablespoons are in a gallon?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Spanish word “verde” mean in 
English?
4. U.S. STATES: Which U.S. state 
has the longest freshwater shoreline?
5. ANATOMY: What side of the 
brain is believed to be important for 
logic and rational thought?
6. FOOD & DRINK: What was the 
first successful brand of instant cof-fee?
7. MATH: How many letters are used 
in Roman Numerals?
8. ASTRONOMY: The Mariner 
probe program was developed to explore which planets?
9. COMICS: What was the secret 
identity of Batwoman?
10. GAMES: What is the first rail-
road you can land on after starting Monopoly at “Go”?
Answers
1. A mob2. 2563. Green4. Michigan5. Left6. Nescafe7. Seven
8. Mars, Venus and Mercury
9. Kathy Kane10. Reading Railroad
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 3, 2017King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Many opera
villains
6 Georgia __
10 ’70s Israeli prime
minister
14 Ration out
15 Antioxidant-rich
fruit in smoothies
17 Some earrings18 Celestial
explosion
19 Midwestern pair21 Japanese prime
minister since
2012
22 Cold War
weapons
26 Northeastern pair
33 Ready followers?34 Jumper cable
connection
35 Did lunch, say
36 Morse clicks
37 Fly catchers
38 Corp. money
execs
39 Puerto Rican
pronoun
40 Bandleader’s cry
41 Ring figure?42 Southwestern
pair
45 Queen __ lace
46 Lode load47 What the
answers to three“pair” cluesshare, both inthis grid and inreality
55 Soldier of
Fortune subject
58 D-sharp
equivalent
59 Grifter60 __ del Sol
61 Prepare for
mailing
62 On the less
windy side
63 Woods
components
DOWN
1 Automobil route
2 Healing salve3 Frustrating
roommate for aneatnik
4 Many opera
heroines
5 “I’ll take that
action”6 Checklist item
7 Galápagos
locale: Abbr.
8 Bos’n’s boss
9 Hustles
10 Stand-up sort11 Mancinelli opera
“__ e Leandro”
12 Robbins of
Baskin-Robbins
13 Shaggy
Scandinavian rug
16 Slow-cook, in a
way
20 Give a darn?23 Former African
secessionist
territory
24 “The Wind in the
Willows”character
25 Handles26 Italian
headquarters ofMaserati
27 Out of the sack
28 Around, so to
speak
29 French-speaking
republic
30 Escapade
31 “Crossroads of
America” in
Indiana, e.g.32 Law-and-order
gps.
37 Pancake-making
aid
38 Nurtured
40 Mother of Pearl,
in an 1850 novel
41 PC part?43 Cantina quaff44 Head of England?48 Masonry support49 Word with coat or
shirt50 Gaelic tongue
51 Bunch of bits
52 “What __ could I
say?”
53 Evaluate54 D.C. Metro 
stops
55 Escher and
Hammer
56 Fair-hiring 
letters
57 Protein-building
molecule
By Pawel Fludzinski©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/06/1707/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
ACROSS
1 Actress
Kaczmarek or
Krakowski
5 Friends abroad
9 Resigned words
13 Chihuahua cheers
14 Point of view
15 Creep
16 Woodshop tools
17 Know-nothing
swine?
19 “Conan” channel20 Baja vacation
spot
21 Co-owner of the
Pequod
22 Puppet’s desire
to manipulate
Shari Lewis for achange?
25 Yale founder
Yale
27 Come to light28 Cry of fright30 GoPro product,
briefly
31 Before thou
know’st
32 The teensiest bit34 One filling in35 Sass from a
young lion?
38 Conceal41 Piano recital
piece, e.g.
42 Marine predator45 Lead-in to roll or
spree
46 Moll’s leg
47 Fast entry49 Mink relative51 Lazy lady’s man?54 Long Island
airport town
56 __ Domani:
Italian wine brand
57 Issuer of nine-
digit ID nos.
58 Cephalopod
wizard’s game?
60 Tale spinner61 Sport whose
champions are
called
“yokozuna”
62 CoverGirl
competitor
63 Car rental giant
64 Suckling spot65 Come off as66 Formally
relinquishDOWN
1 Elbow one’s way
2 “To Kill A
Mockingbird”setting
3 Ones turning in
stories
4 Small opening?5 “I was home
alone,” perhaps
6 Myopic Mr.
7 Roadside retreat8 “Knock it off!”9 One bit
10 Hockey
advantage
11 “The Razor’s
Edge” novelist
12 Mad men?
14 Flood18 Raise a stink?20 Aetna rival23 Lou who stole
938 bases
24 “Sweet!”26 One working at a
base
29 Kin of gov32 Molecular
particles
33 Up to, briefly34 __ firma36 Org. with body
scanners37 “Tiny Bubbles”
singer
38 Farm sound
39 It’s not new40 Asian citrus fruit43 Gettysburg
Address feature
44 “Let me repeat
myself ... ”
46 Graph paper
design
47 Like a mosquito
bite48 Raspy50 “Adam Bede”
novelist
52 “Here, I’ll do that”
53 Non-shaving
razor name?
55 BlackBerries, e.g.58 Former JFK
lander
59 French 
landmass
60 Fond du __,
Wisconsin
By Dave Cuzzolina and Patti Varol©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/30/1706/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, June 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comTHURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Content Writer. P/T. The primary focus is on content for web pages, blogs & social posts. Great opportunity for journalism students. sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com or (352) 339-3156. $9.5/h     7-11-17-5-14
CARPET CLEANING TECH
WANTED - FT
Clean driving record, clean criminal history. 
Call 352-396-4207     7-13-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) for Active Quadriplegic
2 to 3 Part Time Caregivers needed12-16 hrs week / $17-$20 hr / 6-10AMAssist w/ADL activities. CNA or higherDetails: caregiverprovider@cox.net    7-11-17-4-14
 Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Near Campus   
Research A ssistant  / Internship
email  1  page resume to 
science@mammacare.org     7-6-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15
NANNY
Offering full time / part time services at child's home. For further information please contact Judith at 352-575-7409    7-6-2-15Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     7-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL con-nection.      7-6-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
1.  Company, firm
1.  Entertained5.  Escort
2.  ____ system6.  Habit, custom
3.  Cut short7.  Swiped
4.  ____ promiseCENAGY
SUMEDAHURES
GAEUS
SHAXETU
CRAULTILESTON
MOSENLANSWERS: 1A-Agency  5A-Usher  6A-Usage  7A-Stolen
1D-Amused  2D-Exhaust  3D-Curtail  4D-Solemn  B-Mighty Mouse7-7-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TMS - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1400, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoytaol.com. @JUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This character first 
appeared in 1942. BONUS207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE16 Health Services 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 14 Help Wanted
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Rays fall to Cubs 7-3
The T ampa Bay Rays lost to the Chicago Cubs 7-3 on Tuesday night at 
Wrigley Field. Third baseman Evan Longoria went 1-for-3 with two RBIs and  starting pitcher Blake Snell threw ﬁ  ve scoreless innings in the defeat. The Rays face the Red Sox tonight at home in the ﬁ  rst of a four-game series.Spurs forward David Lee and 
several other former Gators are available in NBA free agency this summer. Read the story, pg. 15YEAR IN REVIEW
Staff Report
With the conclusion of 
last week’s College World Series, athletics at UF for the 2016-17 NCAA season have ofﬁ  cially come to an end.
The Gators competed 
in 21 Division I varsity sports throughout the fall, spring and summer, racking up eight regular season and postseason conference championships 
as well as three national 
championships in baseball, 
women’s tennis and men’s outdoor track and ﬁ  eld.
Florida now has 39 
national championships 
across 14 different sports in 
its all-time history. Women’s tennis has the most with seven, while men’s golf, gymnastics and men’s outdoor track and ﬁ  eld each 
have four.
UF also entered exclusive 
company this year as one 
of only four schools in NCAA history with a title in 
football, men’s basketball 
and baseball, joining Ohio 
State, Michigan and UCLA.
Aside from its three 
national championships in 2016-17, the Gators also saw deep postseason runs 
from  the men’s basketball, 
women’s golf, gymnastics, 
softball, men’s swimming and diving and men’s indoor track and ﬁ  eld teams.
On the gridiron, the 
football team reached the SEC Championship Game for the second consecutive year, 
 2016-17 Florida Gators Year in Review
July Fourth.
A time where you get together with friends and 
family to watch ﬁ  reworks, drink a lot of beer (like a true American), watch Joey Chestnut stuff his face with a ton of hot dogs and celebrate our patriotic 
uprising against Great Britain. 
It’s also the time where if you are a hot commodity 
on the free agency market in the NBA, you make a 
huge announcement regarding your future.
Last year, it was Kevin Durant and his decision to 
sign with the Golden State Warriors. The year before that, LaMarcus Aldridge went to the Spurs.
This year, it was Gordon Hayward. And this time, 
the team was the Celtics.
Both sides have agreed to a four-year, $128 million 
deal that will see Hayward wearing green and white next season.
The Former Butler Bulldog will add a lot to Boston 
both as a high-caliber scorer and veteran teammate. Going from a slow-paced Jazz team to a Celtics squad known for its transition offense, Hayward should thrive in his new home.
But when it's all said and done, Boston still won’t 
be able to surpass Cleveland when it counts. Maybe instead of the Celtics beating the Cavaliers once in the Eastern Conference Finals, they'll beat them twice. Or possibly even three times. But that's it.
Cleveland returns most of its key players, including 
the big three of LeBron James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love. Not only that, but James is coming off an incredible NBA Finals performance where, despite coming up short, he averaged a triple double. 
The Cavs also hold a lot of experience, with most 
players on their roster well into their 30s. 
The Celtics, on the other hand, are still a very 
young team. Former Gator Al Horford and All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas are the only players currently under contract above the age of 26.
Horford and Thomas still have a long way to go 
before they can help lead Boston to an NBA Finals appearance, but in a few years, it could happen. The 
team recently took one-and-done freshman Jayson 
Tatum in last month's NBA Draft, and it has the Brooklyn Nets’ ﬁ  rst round pick in 2018, too. 
However, as of right now, the Celtics stand no 
chance against the Cavaliers, even with the addition of Hayward.
Landing the forward in free agency is a huge step 
in the right direction, but it'll take a lot more than one signing to compete with King James and his army of 
talent out in Cleveland.  
Jake Dreilinger is assistant sports editor of the 
Alligator. His column appears frequently on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.Hayward’s Fourth of 
July splash still not 
enough for CelticsJakes on a Plane
Jake Dreilinger
@DreilingerJake
SEE REVIEW,  PAGE  16
Grace King / Alligator Staff
T op: Florida's baseball team holds up its ﬁ  rst ever national championship trophy following its 6-1 victory over LSU in 
the CWS Finals on June 27, 2017, in Omaha, Nebraska.Bottom: Florida's men's basketball team celebrates after its 84-83 victory over Wisconsin in the NCAA T ournament on 
March 24, 2017, in New York City.
The Associated PressTHURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
A year ago, two-time NCAA 
champion and former Gator 
great Al Horford made headlines 
when he signed a four-year, 
$113 million contract with the Boston Celtics. The deal played a huge role in shaking up the 
NBA’s landscape, as Horford 
helped the Celtics emerge as a 
championship contender in the 
Eastern Conference.
This summer, there are once 
again several Gators on the open 
market waiting to make a splash in NBA free agency. Here are the 
ﬁ  ve most likely to do so.
David Lee
Lee brought a much-needed 
power presence to San Antonio last year following the loss of fellow big man David West.  In his 12th season in the league, Lee made 10 starts in 79 games  
while averaging 7.3 points and 
5.6 rebounds. He also shot an efﬁ  cient 59 percent from the ﬁ  eld. Expect him to latch on 
to another contender and once 
again make a deep run in the playoffs.Marreese SpeightsSpeights is a veteran big 
man who has developed a reliable three-point shot in 
recent seasons.  2017-2018 will 
be his 10th year in the league, and he is faced with the choice of returning to the Clippers to play behind Blake Grifﬁ  n and 
DeAndre Jordan, or to look for 
a starting role elsewhere before that window closes.
Udonis Haslem
All the current players on 
UF’s men’s basketball team were in middle school when Udonis Haslem won his ﬁ  rst 
NBA title in 2006.  Haslem has 
spent his entire 14-year career in Miami.  In recent seasons the power forward has seen less 
playing time, coming off the 
bench in just 53 games over the past since 2015.  After winning three rings over one and a half decades in South Beach, Haslem 
might be content to ride out his 
twilight years in the same place he started.
Devin RobinsonRobinson, a 6-foot-8, 
200-pound small forward has found a spot on Washington’s Summer League team after going undrafted last month.  He must gain weight if he wants to earn 
a roster spot, but the athletic 
22-year-old could ﬁ  nd his niche as a ‘Three and D’ type player.  Should the Wizards pick him up, he would play with former Gator 
Bradley Beal.  Robinson ﬁ  nished 
third on UF in points and second in rebounds and blocks in 2016-2017.
Canyon BarryThe son of NBA great Rick 
Barry, Canyon made national headlines as a Gator for his 
underhand free-throw technique, 
tying KeVaughn Allen for ﬁ  rst on the team with an 88.3 free throw percentage.  Barry is a good 
shooter, but like Robinson, he 
went undrafted.  He is currently playing for New York in the Summer League.  If the Knicks decide to sign him, he would be 
playing alongside center Joakim 
Noah—a teammate of Horford’s during Florida’s back-to-back championship runs.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org Florida Gators in the NBA: 2017 Free Agency Edition
The Associated Press
Former UF basketball player David Lee competes during a game between 
the San Antonio Spurs and the Memphis Grizzlies on Feb. 6, 2017. Lee is an unrestricted free agent this offseason.
and other sports like men’s golf, 
lacrosse, soccer and volleyball had respectable campaigns as well.
“It has been another terriﬁ  c 
year in Gator Athletics,” athletic director Scott Stricklin wrote in a  message to fans on June 22. “There has been a lot of fun packed into a short period of time, and that fun is directly attributable to our remarkable 
student-athletes, coaches, staff 
and fans.”
UF’s widespread success this 
season culminated in a third 
place ﬁ  nish in the Learﬁ  eld 
Sports Directors’ Cup standings, marking Florida’s ninth 
consecutive top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nish in the 
national all-sports rankings. Only 
Stanford and Ohio State’s athletic 
programs had a better year than the Gators did in 2016-17. Here is the full overview for how each 
varsity sport ﬁ  nished:16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 6, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
10% oﬀ for
Alumni
352-373-6500
2435 SW 13th St.
REVIEW,  from pg. 14UF won eight conference titles in 2016-17
2016-17 FLORIDA GATORS YEAR IN REVIEW
Baseball: Won SEC Regular 
Season Championship, Lost in 
SEC Tournament Semifinals, 
Won NCAA Tournament 
Championship
Men’s Basketball: Finished 
Second in SEC Regular Season 
Standings, Lost in SEC 
Tournament Quarterfinals, Lost 
in NCAA Tournament Elite 
Eight
Women’s Basketball: 
Finished 12th in SEC Regular 
Season Standings, Lost in SEC 
Tournament Second Round, 
Missed NCAA Tournament 
Men’s Cross Country: 
Finished Eighth in SEC 
Championship, Finished Eighth 
in NCAA South Regional 
Championship
Women’s Cross Country: 
Finished Eighth in SEC 
Championship, Finished Sixth 
in NCAA South Regional 
ChampionshipFootball: Won SEC East 
Regular Season 
Championship, Lost in SEC 
Championship Game, Won 
Outback Bowl
Men’s Golf: Lost in SEC 
Championship Semifinals, 
Finished Eighth in NCAA 
Championship Regionals
Women’s Golf: Won SEC 
Championship, Lost in NCAA 
Championship Quarterfinals 
Gymnastics: Finished 
Second in SEC Championship, 
Finished Third in NCAA 
Championship Super Six
Lacrosse: Won Big East 
Regular Season 
Championship, Won Big East 
Tournament Championship, 
Lost in NCAA Tournament 
Second RoundSoccer: Finished Third in SEC 
Regular Season Standings, 
Won SEC Tournament 
Championship, Lost in NCAA 
Tournament Third Round
Softball: Won SEC Regular 
Season Championship, Lost in 
SEC Tournament Quarterfinals, 
Lost in NCAA Tournament 
Women’s College World 
Series Finals
Men’s Swimming & Diving:  
Won SEC Championship, 
Finished Third in NCAA 
Championship
Women’s Swimming & 
Diving: Finished Seventh in 
SEC Championship, Finished 
50th in NCAA Championship
Men’s Tennis: Finished Third 
in SEC Regular Season 
Standings, Lost in SEC 
Tournament Semifinals, Lost in 
NCAA Tournament Third 
RoundWomen’s Tennis: Finished 
Second in SEC Regular Season 
Standings, Lost in SEC 
Tournament Finals, Won NCAA 
Tournament Championship
Men’s Indoor Track & Field: 
Finished Third in SEC 
Championship, Finished Second 
in NCAA Championship
Women’s Indoor Track & 
Field: Finished Eighth in SEC 
Championship, Finished 14th in 
NCAA Championship
Men’s Outdoor Track & 
Field: Finished Fourth in SEC 
Championship, Won NCAA 
Championship
Women’s Outdoor Track 
& Field: Finished Fifth in SEC 
Championship, Finished Fifth in 
NCAA Championship
Volleyball: Won SEC Regular 
Season Championship, Lost in 
NCAA Tournament Second 
Round