We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators make a change at 
quarterback 
Grad transfer Malik Zaire will start his ﬁ  rst game of the year on Saturday against Mizzou, pg. 14. Another apartment highrise is coming 
The Nine at Gainesville is planned to be completed by July, pg. 9. 
Advocate speaks on felon voter restoration 
He talked on campus about allowing former felons to vote, pg. 3.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 31
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE REITZ 
PROGRAMMING BOARD 
WILL PAY HIM $15,800. 
By Alexandra Regueiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
South Florida rapper Denzel 
Curry will perform at UF on Friday 
during GatorNights.  
Curry will be 
paid $15,800 by the Reitz Pro-gramming Board 
to perform, said 
Alex Backman, 
the co-director for the board’s bands commit-
tee.
Curry will perform at 10 p.m. in 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The event is free to all UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 Card. Students 
must check in with GatorNights at the Information Desk and may bring one guest, Backman said. “I want this to be a show that 
all different kinds of students can enjoy,” Backman said. “I’m per-sonally a big fan of his, I think it’ll 
be a great show.”
Jonathan Vargas, a UF micro-
biology and cell science senior, 
said he has been a fan of Curry’s since he ﬁ  rst heard the artist’s song 
“Threatz.”
“I have seen Denzel in concert 
before, and I am hoping that he 
brings that same level of energy,” 
the 21-year-old said. “He is an in-
credible performer, and I have al-ways found a way of being more in love with his music.”
Karina Perez, a 19-year-old UF 
health science sophomore, said she is excited about dancing in the crowd with her close friends and immersing herself in Curry’s per-
formance.
“I think with a performer like 
Denzel Curry, there’s no way there 
wouldn’t be a big turnout,” Perez said. “That would just be disap-
pointing on our Student Body’s 
part.”Rapper Denzel Curry 
to perform at UF
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ian Burns’ parents, Monique and Rick, embrace one another as a group of Ian’s friends perform the 
song “At the River” by Aaron Copland inside the Baughman Center on Thursday afternoon.
IAN’S FRIENDS AND FAMIL Y 
SPOKE AT THE MEMORIAL.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Rick Burns told mourners not to grieve 
for his late son.
With tears in his eyes, Rick Burns stood 
at the Baughman Center podium and said 
friends and family should share stories and laugh at fond memories of 20-year-old Ian Burns.“They say you die twice,” he said. “The 
ﬁ  rst time our physical bodies go, the sec-ond time is when people stop telling our stories.”
More than 50 gathered Thursday at 1 
p.m. to honor the life of Ian, a UF mechan-ical engineering and music performance sophomore, at the Baughman Center on-campus chapel, located at 982 Museum 
Road. He died Oct. 21 after police said 
he fell from a third-ﬂ  oor balcony at 13th Street Apartments, otherwise known as University House Apartments.
At the service, seven pictures of Ian 
from early childhood to his six-week trip to Europe in May leaned side by side against 
the walls. Each picture shined with the 
bright smile he was known for.
“What I’d like to do is share some of 
Ian’s story, so we all remember him, and hopefully smile,” Rick Burns said.
The room lit up with laughter as he re-
counted his son’s child-like spirit.
Ian led an effort to dress like princesses and dressed as Snow White himself for his senior year Disney-themed Homecoming Day at Suncoast Community High School. He auditioned for the Fall 2015 musical 
decked out in full German lederhosen gear 
and sang a bastardized version of “Do Re Mi,” replacing the lyrics with beer refer-ences.
“That was Ian, always the performer,” 
Rick Burns said. “He was unembarrassable (sic).”‘A song of praise’: Memorial held for UF student Ian Burns
By Heaven T aylor-Wynn
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hundreds gathered in the Circle of 
Hope driveway Thursday morning for the UF Health Heart & Vascular and UF Health 
Neuromedicine Hospitals’ ribbon-cutting.
The roughly 500,000 square foot com-
plex has 216 private patient rooms, 120 of which belong to the Heart & Vascular 
Hospital and the other 96 to the Neuro-
medicine Hospital. UF Health began con-
struction of the building, located at 1505 SW Archer Road, in January 2015, said Rossana Passaniti, the UF Health media 
relations coordinator. It cost $425 million 
to build. 
Patients from UF Health Shands Hospi-tal in neurological and cardiological inten-sive-care units will be moved to the new 
hospitals Dec. 10, Passaniti said. New pa-
tients will begin to be seen Dec. 11. 
At the ceremony, UF President Kent 
Fuchs said the hospitals will meet an in-
creasing need for specialized care. 
“We have this huge growing demand 
that’s going up roughly 10 percent every year,” he said. “More people want to come 
here to be treated and diagnosed, so this 
meets that capacity.” 
The hospitals have five general and 
three hybrid heart and vascular operating 
rooms. Of the seven neuromedicine oper-
ating rooms, two have MRI scanners at-
tached to the room, which allow doctors to New UF Health hospitals hold ribbon-cutting ceremonySEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 8
SEE HOSPITAL,  PAGE 8Curry
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
HIGH  83° LOW  57°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Drink with the Extinct
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting “Drink with the Extinct” to share science with the community. Sip brews in the 
shadow of a mammoth, and en-
joy live music Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Florida Museum. Proceeds benefit the museum’s 
Pop-up program. Participants 
must be 21 or older. Tickets are 
$30 or $25 for museum mem-
bers. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/drink-with-the-extinct or call 352-273-2047.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction 
In an article published 
Wednesday titled “UF student rows competitively for Egypt,” the rower is Yahia Eldeib. The 
Alligator reported otherwise. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 31
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 4 
p.m. from now until Wednesday, November 8. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
November 14 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the 
new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Thursday 
November 30 at 3 p.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to 
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Your New Family Tradition! 
A classic steakhouse with an Italian flair!
3501 SW 2nd Ave Ste A
352-505-3595MON - THUR 4pm - 10pm
FRIDAY 4pm - 11pm
SATURDAY Brunch 12pm - 4pm 
4pm - 11pm
SUNDAY Brunch 12pm - 4pm 
4pm - 10pmSATURDAY 
4 PMGRAND 
OPENING
W University Ave
SW 2nd Ave
SW 36th StSW 34th St
Mancini’s 
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
227 NW 23rd Ave
Gainesville, FL 32609maggie@carpet1floorandhome.com352.380.9797Maggie Crane
Manager/Owner15%
discount
CarpetOne.com
®By Robert Lewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jennifer Elder still remembers 
when a 4-year-old autistic boy 
looked into his father’s eyes for the ﬁ  rst time and said, “Daddy.”
That was about 15 years ago, said 
Jennifer Elder, a registered nurse and UF researcher. Since 1981, El-der has worked with children with autism spectrum disorder and their families, teaching children on the spectrum how to communicate and socialize in better ways, she said. In August, Elder received funding for a new approach to autism research 
focused on the community. 
The Patient-Centered Out-
comes Research Institute gave El-
der $90,000 to connect community members, like service providers or people who have family members with autism, with researchers, she said. The idea developed from con-cerns that researchers with the Na-
tional Institutes of Health, like Elder, 
weren’t looking into the topics im-portant to people with autism, she said. The new model aims to hear what issues people care about most. 
“This whole initiative is to en-
gage them from the very beginning, when we are ﬁ  rst developing the re-search question, all the way through 
conducting the trials,” Elder said.
Elder and her team are currently 
meeting with families from the rural 
communities of Palatka, Live Oak, and Crystal River, Florida, where children with autism are not receiv-ing the services they need, she said. 
Elder said she hopes her research 
will lead to a better understanding 
of autism, ﬁ  nd new ways to make 
earlier diagnoses and improve the quality of life for children and their families.
“We’ve found that there’s a clear 
evidence that the earlier we can get a deﬁ  nitive diagnosis, the earlier we can get treatment, the better the in-dividual does over a lifetime,” Elder 
said. 
Jaime Kulik, the disabilities co-
chair of the UF College Democrats, 
has a cousin on the autism spec-trum. This inspired her to volunteer to help people with autism and oth-er disabilities, she said.
The 19-year-old UF health sci-
ence sophomore said people with 
autism don’t typically feel the same 
pressures as others to follow social cues, because they don’t always perceive them.
“It’s important to realize people 
with autism and other disabilities have a lot more in common with others than they have differences,” Kulik said. “It’s important to focus 
on what they can do rather than on 
what they can’t do.”
Elder said the families of chil-
dren with autism are heroes.
“They have incredible chal-
lenges, and they’ve been some of the most resourceful people I have ever met,” she said. “They’re just amazing. They’ve kept me involved 
all these years, because I just have 
great respect for them.”Autism researchers 
seek help with study
HE IS A FORMER FELON WHO HAS NOT 
HAD HIS VOTING RIGHTS RESTORED.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In August 2005, Desmond Meade hit his rock bot-
tom. 
He was homeless, addicted to drugs, recently re-
leased from prison and without a job. 
Meade stood in front of a railroad track waiting to 
jump, but the train didn’t come. 
In a speech at Pugh Hall on Thursday at 6 p.m., 
Meade talked about how he turned his life around by 
getting an education and through his current work ad-vocating for the restoration of voting rights to former fel-ons. Meade is the head of the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition and has given presentations about the issue to the U.S. Congress and the U.N.
Seventeen years after he was released from prison, 
Meade still hasn’t been able to get his voting rights re-stored, he said.
“As an advocate for felon re-enfranchisement, I can 
never get over that pain that I felt recently when my wife ran for ofﬁ  ce, and someone asked if I was excited to vote for her, and it reminded me I couldn’t vote for my own wife,” Meade said. 
About 50 people showed up to hear Meade speak at 
the event hosted by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service. 
“I’m not here for me,” Meade said. “I’m here because 
there are over 1 million American citizens in the state of Florida who are being told their voice doesn’t matter anymore because they were convicted of a felony.” 
Gail Sasnett, the assistant director for public pro-
grams at the Graham Center, said they planned to bring Meade to share information on a hot political topic.
“I hope we have educated some citizens and stu-
dents,” Sasnett said. “It helps them learn about their government and civic engagement. That’s the goal.” 
Jamie Lee, a UF statistics and political science junior, 
said Meade’s cause has been important to her since she ﬁ  rst heard him speak at the Florida College Democrats conference in April. 
“The issue of felon voting rights is really important 
to me because it’s really a human rights issue,” the 
20-year-old said. “Everyone deserves the right to vote 
and currently in Florida, people that deserve that right are not getting it, and that needs to change.” 
During his speech, Meade announced the petition to 
get the Voting Restoration Amendment on the 2018 bal-lot had reached more than 750,000 signatures. Lee said hearing that encouraged her.
“I know the campaign is made up of a lot of hard-
working people, and I know that we can get this issue 
on the ballot,” Lee said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgLeader of felon voter restoration 
movement speaks on campus 
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Desmond Meade speaks at Pugh Hall on Thurs-
day evening. Meade came to speak about restor-ing voting rights for felons.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
To honor the lives of immigrants and 
their families, the Student Government Mul-
ticultural Affairs Cabinet and UF Chispas celebrated “I Am An Immigrant Day” on Wednesday.
The event, held from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
on Turlington Plaza, brought more than 60 students together to write their favorite 
quotes about diversity, pose for photos and 
receive free The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops, said Shannon Pinzon, the vice president of Internal Affairs at Chispas, an organization that advocates for immigrant students. The event was part of a national campaign. 
Pinzon, a UF economics and political sci-
ence junior, said the event was important because of the current political climate and 
white supremacist Richard Spencer’s recent speech at UF on Oct. 19.
“It’s important to remind everyone the 
diversity that’s in UF and just celebrate 
that,” the 20-year-old said. 
Samantha Torres, a UF accounting fresh-
man, said she wanted to support the event’s cause because both of her parents are im-
migrants from Peru. They came to the U.S. 
when they were both 17 years old. 
“This is actually my mom’s dream 
school, to come here, but she wasn’t actu-ally able to do it because she had me, so I kind of wanted to be able to come out and represent immigrants,” she said. 
Torres said she carries her mom’s strug-
gle with her every day.
“I don’t take it for granted,” the 18-year-
old said. “With my mom and what she went through, I just try a little harder.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org THE EVENT WILL INCLUDE 
A BEER LAUNCH, MOVIE 
AND PROJECTION.
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
An idea thought up more than a 
year ago in Campeche, Mexico, will come to life in just a few weeks.
Douglas Soltis, a distinguished 
professor in the Florida Museum of 
Natural History, was in Mexico with 
his wife, Pam, when they saw a projection of the story of the Mayan people on a building. The image in-spired them to use the same medium to discuss biodiversity.
“One Tree, One Planet,” a free 
event series to take place during the week of Nov. 13, will promote the importance of a biodiverse planet through an animated movie, a pro-jection by a world-famous artist and a special-edition beer launch.
“What we’re really trying to do 
is promote to the public the impor-tance of biodiversity and how criti-cal it is to have a biodiverse world for your future, for all of our futures, 
and we’re doing that through a series 
of events that are linked to the tree of life,” Soltis said.
The events are being supported 
by grants and funding from the Florida Museum, the UF Genetics In-stitute, the Office of the Provost and the College of the Arts.
Soltis said the events will use 
the tree of life, which represents the connectivity of all the species on the planet, as a metaphor for biodiver-sity.“I think what we want to do with 
these events is grab people by the heart,” he said. 
The two main events, an animat-
ed film, “TreeTender,” and an out-door projection of the tree of life, will premiere Nov. 16 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Florida Museum, located at 3215 Hull Road.
“TreeTender” is an animated 
film designed for the event by artists at the UF Digital Worlds Institute, wrote James Oliverio, a UF profes-sor and the founding director of the Digital Worlds Institute, in an email. 
Naziha Mestaoui, a Paris-based 
artist, created the interactive tree of life image that will be projected on 
the back of the Harn Museum of Art.
“The artwork is actually a jour-
ney that brings the audience in con-
nection with all different species,” Mestaoui said. “It’s all the story of connectivity between living organ-isms and understanding that we all share common genomes.”
The audience will be able to inter-
act with the “One Tree, One Planet” projection at iPad stations where they can see their heartbeats next to those of other species, she said. 
The projection is paired with a 
symphony performance composed by Mestaoui, which was created by digitizing and assigning a musical note to DNA. 
“The idea is to understand that 
there is a unity and a harmony and something that connects us all,” she said.
As part of the event series, First 
Magnitude Brewing Company, lo-cated at 1220 SE Veitch St., will be launching a special-edition pale ale, called One Tree, on Nov. 17 from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
The beer will represent 11 
branches of the tree of life through its ingredients: sweet orange, Span-ish cedar, barley, rye, wheat, oats, gallberry, yeast, hops, honey and Irish moss.
Simon McClung, the marketing 
coordinator for First Magnitude, said the brewery works to support con-servation.
The event series will be the first 
attempt at a mass project they hope to take worldwide, Soltis said.
“What inspired us is the incred-
ible need to get people, especially the public, involved in the importance of 
biodiversity on our planet,” Soltis 
said. “We want people to see this at a lot of different places.”
‘One Tree, One Planet’ event series promotes biodiversity
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida opened its 175th state park Monday 
in High Springs.
Blue Springs Park, a 407-acre property that 
had been privately owned since 1958, was pur-chased by the state for $5.2 million in June, 
wrote Sarah Shellabarger, a Florida Department 
of Environmental Protection spokesperson, in an email. The purchase was finalized in Octo-ber, but the park closed for a month after Hur-ricane Irma.
The park, located at 7450 NE 60th St., of-
fers six natural springs and areas for swimming, paddling and hiking. The entry rate is $6 for every vehicle holding two to eight people, $4 
for a single-passenger vehicle and $2 per visitor 
entering by foot or bike.
Tom Kay, the executive director of the 
nonprofit Alachua Conservation Trust, said he thinks the property is better off under state ownership.
“It’s going to be positive for the whole com-
munity now that it’ll be available for the whole public to use,” Kay said.
Although the park doesn’t offer diving yet, 
Richie Denmark, a 33-year-old Gainesville res-ident, hopes park staff will follow the lead of neighboring Ichetucknee Springs State Park in Fort White and Manatee Springs State Park in Chiefland, Florida. State parks have regulations on visitors bringing plastic and alcohol, and this 
park will be less littered than alternative diving 
spots, he said.
Denmark said he looks forward to visiting 
the cleaner state park.
“It’s something that takes a lot of stress out 
of my life, being involved in nature, conserving nature, just being outside,” he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgBlue Springs reopens as 
Florida state parkStudents celebrate 
immigrant backgrounds  
THEY WILL INSTALL FILTERS 
FOR MORE THAN 400 
FAMILIES.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
For the third year in a row, UF’s 
branch of Cru, the Campus Crusade 
for Christ, will go on a mission trip to 
Cuba and Guatemala to install water filters.
About 30 students will leave for 
Cuba on Dec. 16 and return Dec. 22, and about 50 students will travel to 
Guatemala from March 3 to March 9, 
said Wade Bayless, one of the organiz-ers of the mission trip.
Despite safety concerns, Bayless 
said he thought there was a greater need to provide clean water to Cubans 
after the effects Hurricane Irma had on 
the island. 
“Safety will be a very big con-
cern,” the 26-year-old said. “We re-ally thought it through and seeing the greater need for clean water there over 
the potential risk, we just felt this trip 
is worth taking.” 
Students will receive five water fil-
ters each to install in the homes of 250 families in Guatemala and 165 families in Cuba, Bayless said. Each filter costs $40 and is expected to last about 10 
years, he said.
Bayless said the filter is like many 
tiny straws 0.1 microns in diameter, 
which enables the filter to pick up any larger bacteria.
“I’ve used it multiple times dem-
onstrating to people, and I’ve never gotten sick,” Bayless said. “I mean, we 
take some pretty nasty water and put it 
in there and demo it for people and it’s just a really incredible filter.” 
Bayless said he expects students to 
gain a change in perspective on these mission trips. 
“We seem to have all of these things 
that seem like a big deal, but then you meet these people who live in these re-
ally tough conditions and don’t have 
really anything as far as social status or financial income,” he said. “It just 
really changes your whole perspective 
on life.”
Ricky Aldridge, a student leader at 
Cru, wrote in an email that the church has partners in each country they visit. He said they pick which families get a filter based on who needs it the most. 
Aldridge said there’s a waiting list in 
Guatemala and Cuba. 
Aldridge, a UF psychology junior, 
said these mission trips are different from ordinary mission trips because of 
the families they impact. “Each family 
has a story,” the 20-year-old said. “Our purpose is going into their homes and 
giving them not only clean water, but 
clean spiritual water through the Holy Spirit for life.”
Aldridge said helping out will give 
students a broader look at their beliefs. 
“The students will take away a 
new look on their faith,” Aldridge said. 
“They will see Christianity unboxed.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgChristian organization to install 
water filters in Cuba, Guatemala
By Savannah Austin
Alligator Contributing Writer
The World Equestrian Cen-
ter sports complex and a lux-
ury residential community in Ocala is expected to open in 2019 on the condition it meets 
Marion County Commission’s 
requirements.
The 3,145 acre-complex is 
being built adjacent to Golden Ocala Golf & Equestrian Club, located at 8300 NW 31st Lane Road, according to Marion County records. It will feature a 3-acre outdoor stadium, 17 outdoor arenas, four climate-
controlled arenas and 1,500 
horse stalls. There will also be educational areas and riding trails on the property, accord-ing to a Golden Ocala Club press release.
In addition to the sports complex, Golden Ocala and World Equestrian Center, an equestrian venue located in 
Wilmington, Ohio, are devel-
oping a residential community called Equestrian Estates, a hotel with 18,000 square feet of retail space and a space for 200 RVs, according to the press release.
Marion County Commis-
sion unanimously issued a 
conditional approval on the 
ongoing construction Oct. 17 and required the applicant to submit more documents.
Ocala resident and one of 
the UF Equestrian Club coach-es Ashley Johnson, 41, thinks the new venue will attract more types of horse riding in 
Ocala.
“I think that the facility is 
going to be absolutely beauti-
ful,” Johnson said.Equestrian center 
set to open in 2019FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kayla Turner
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are working to summa-
rize decades of data on implicit bias to affect 
cultural standards.
Kate Ratliff, the executive director of Proj-
ect Implicit, and Colin Smith, the director of 
education at Project Implicit, are working to 
address subconscious bias against different races, genders and sexualities.
Ratliff and Smith focus their work around 
the Implicit Association Test, which was published in 1998, Ratliff said.
The test identiﬁ  es preconceived, subcon-
scious notions people develop but may not be aware of. Project Implicit is a website run 
by the UF professors who collect data from 
millions of test-takers each year.
The goal of Ratliff and Smith’s project 
is to summarize the state of implicit bias research, Ratliff said. By combining their research with previous studies, the data re-veals people are faster to pair white faces with good words and black faces with bad words, she said. 
Smith said 70 to 80 percent of white par-
ticipants show bias, and Asian participants have about the same level of pro-white bias. 
“Half of the African-American partici-
pants ﬁ  nd it easier to pair white with good and black with bad, because it is so in-grained in the culture,” he said.Smith said explicit and implicit bias dif-
fer. White supremacist Richard Spencer, who frequently expresses his favoritism 
for the white race, is an example of explicit 
bias, he said.
“It can be difﬁ  cult to measure the parts of 
people’s minds that they are not aware of,” Smith said. “It is difﬁ  cult predicting people’s behavior. Implicit bias deals with things you are unconsciously aware of such as body position, body language and interpersonal interactions.”
Smith performed an experiment in which 
a black man, seated behind the desk, react-ed to a white person walking into a room. By observing the black man’s body lan-guage, Smith determined a level of implicit bias present. 
Ratliff said everybody has a certain level 
of bias. 
“It is important to have humility about 
bias,” Ratliff said. “Many people think that they are not biased, unaware that subcon-sciously we are all biased.”
Smith said it’s important to address inter-
nalized bias without lashing out at people. 
“In a time where there is a lot of pressure 
to not say the wrong thing, we have to have space for people to safely confront their own biases,” he said. “We have to have a world 
where it is OK to say that we are biased. 
There has to be a way to have a conversa-tion, where people discuss bias openly with-out hostility.”UF psychology professors 
analyze implicit societal bias
UF RESEARCHERS WILL TRAVEL 
TO NAIROBI TO STUDY A PEST.
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
To ﬁ  ght hunger and poverty in Africa, 
the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences will work to stave off the threat of an invasive African pest.
UF and the International Institute of 
Tropical Agriculture signed an agreement in October to commit to ﬁ  ghting poverty and hunger issues in Africa while maintaining environmentally clean practices. The two organizations signed the agreement at the World Food Prize 2017.
Pedro Sanchez, a professor of tropical 
soils at UF and the program coordinator, said a main initiative of the program is to 
work together to combat an invasive spe-
cies in Africa, the fall armyworm, that dev-astates corn crops. In parts of sub-Saharan Africa, current yields are about 16 bushels per acre, or about 56 pounds. However, a family of four needs about 2,000 pounds, Sanchez said.
“I think that this shows that UF now is 
kind of ofﬁ  cially involved in this quest to 
get Africa out of poverty and hunger,” he 
said.
Sanchez said UF scientists know how to 
control the worm in Florida. By cooperat-ing with the other groups, UF will work to control the threat of these worms in Africa.
Another main goal of the program is to 
triple current corn crop yields in the next 10 years, he said.
UF will send faculty members to Nairobi, 
Kenya, to coordinate efforts in the region.
The program builds upon UF’s role as a 
top-10 public university, Sanchez said. UF will work jointly with the tropical agricul-ture institute to share knowledge and skills.
“This gives us the green light to get go-
ing,” he said.
The newly signed pact allows UF profes-
sors and students to work abroad as a group rather than as individuals, Sanchez said. It also cuts through bureaucratic red tape, 
because the international group’s actions 
are considered a form of diplomacy, which streamlines the paperwork process of secur-ing the work permits for UF researchers.
He said although the work will not be 
easy, he is excited about the ability of sci-ence-based results to help the local popula-tion.
Jack Payne, the senior vice president for 
agricultural and natural resources at UF, wrote in an email he is proud of the efforts to call attention to the potential famine in Africa.
“I strongly believe that a land-grant uni-
versity is not a great university unless it is ﬁ  rst bringing its knowledge to the people of its state but also bringing it to the world,” UF IFAS researchers to ﬁ  ght 
famine, hunger in AfricaThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Editorial
Column
In that situation, I did everything right.” 
The slight tremble in Mary Kate’s 
voice vanishes as she becomes confi-
dent. 
“Yes, I got drunk with my friends. I 
got a person that I knew — who was sober 
— to drive us. I stayed with my girlfriends. I made sure I had people who knew me and cared about me … ”
The tremble returns. “And it still happened.”Mary Kate had been out with girlfriends at a fra-
ternity party. They decided to head home, and she asked a friend from high school, a sober driver for a fraternity, if he would take them. He obliged. 
Mary Kate, her friend and the driver’s roommate hopped 
into his car. They passed Jennings Hall, where she lived, but he said he would pass it again on his way home. He would drop her off then. 
They dropped her friend off. Then the driver’s roommate. 
She found that odd.
At Jennings Hall, he parked. She felt sick, tried to gather 
herself before stepping out. He turned the car off and climbed into the back seat. Before she could open the door, he was 
pulling her from the passenger seat over the center console 
into the back. He began undressing her against verbal and physical protests.
At the end, she told me, “I was just lying there like a dead 
fish, thinking I had to get out of the car.” He raped her. 
Mary Kate escaped the vehicle that night by inching her 
hand toward the door and sliding from the car naked. She crawled across a parking lot without pants or underwear, one shoe on and one in a car she would never see again. Those 
were her favorite shoes. 
After our interview, I kept coming back to her preface: “I 
did everything right.” What did that mean? 
Could she have done something wrong? Could she have 
acted in a way that would have forfeited her right to her body?
The answer is a flat no, but excerpts from my conversations 
with sexual assault survivors at UF would make you think oth-
erwise. Descriptions of dress and drunkenness litter my notes. “I was wearing running shorts and a T-shirt,” one girl wrote to me. “I drank a lot that night, and I don’t think I ate dinner either,” said another. 
These descriptors provide irrelevant context and 
reflect a sad consensus among women that they, 
in some small way, can be complicit in their rape. 
We cannot point the finger exclusively at UF 
Greek organizations for this tendency, but they 
throw away a golden opportunity to undo this habituation when they focus their efforts more in-tently on teaching women to avoid assault than on teaching men not to commit it. 
This gendered analysis is justified: A survey administered 
to UF students in 2014 revealed one in five female undergrad-
uates has experienced sexual assault since entering college, 
compared to one in 20 men. Sorority-affiliated women are as-saulted at four times the rate of their non-sorority peers, and of the 10 women I interviewed, nine were raped by fraternity men from at least eight different fraternities.
UF — and in turn, the Interfraternity Council — has an 
obligation to focus explicitly on fraternity men, to educate them thoroughly about the necessity of asking for consent and about the legal consequences of failing to do so. 
Men from seven different UF fraternities told me their chap-
ters received no sexual assault education beyond an initiation module and one to two generalized risk management pre-sentations per year. For comparison, an anonymous member of Pi Beta Phi Sorority told me she received so many sexual assault-specific educationals with her sorority, she could host a seminar herself.
We should teach women about sexual assault prevention, 
but this imbalance teaches women something more: It’s their 
responsibility to prevent it. 
“You can’t tell a victim how not to be a victim,” Mary Kate 
said. “You have to tell perpetrators to not commit crimes.”
UF, are you listening?
Champe Barton is a UF economics and psychology senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.UF to Greek women: Don’t get assaultedYou’re exhausted. You haven’t showered in a few days 
because you haven’t left the library. Your diet for the past 
week has consisted solely of Starbucks paninis and Jimmy 
John’s sandwiches delivered to your workspace. You fear 
90 percent of the liquid inside your body is now pure coffee, and you’ve seen several of your friends break down crying. That’s right — it’s exam season.
After your second all-nighter of the week, you emerge 
from Library West to find the sun has risen once again. Dazed and confused, you step out on the Plaza of the Amer-icas to find the crisp grass could potentially serve as a suit-able bed, at least for a few minutes anyway. The next thing 
you know, your phone alarm is blaring, alerting you it’s 
time to get up off your makeshift bed of grass and leaves and head to your next exam. You sluggishly walk to the big lecture hall where your test is being administered and 
make it there just in time as the proctors are handing out 
Scantrons.
After one agonizing hour of testing, you look back at 
your Scantron to review your answers to ensure you left no question unanswered. Much to your surprise, the bubbles 
you’ve filled in appear to spell something across the sheet. 
The darkened bubbles collectively spell out:
Darts & Laurels
We may be more than 1,000 miles away, but our hearts 
are with those affected by the recent terror attack in New York City this week. After a man drove a pickup truck down 
a populated bike path alongside the Hudson River in Man-
hattan, eight people lost their lives, and 11 were injured. It was named the deadliest terror attack in New York City since the Sept. 11 attacks. This horrific event reminded 
us of the evil that can exist in our world and effectively 
became our first dart of this week.
On another troubling note, three people were killed in 
Colorado on Thursday after a 47-year-old man opened fire  
in a local Walmart. Though the gunman, Scott Ostrem, was 
arrested, the heinous act remains both troubling and heart-
breaking and provides us with another dart to tack onto this week.
Locally, we had a pretty good week. On Tuesday, UF 
Student Body President Smith Meyers announced Provost Joseph Glover secured permanent funding for eight new mental health counselors for UF’s Counseling & Wellness Center. After weeks of upset over the denied request for a student fee raise in order to secure the necessary fund-
ing, this is definitely a step in the right direction. Meyers 
said the students who spoke out at the Oct. 17 Student Sen-ate meeting really helped move administration to get more permanent funding. We’d like to award those courageous 
students with our first laurel of the week.
UF students and Gators fans finally had their wishes an-
swered this Sunday when, now previous, head Gators foot-
ball Coach Jim McElwain was fired. For nearly three years, Gators fans have been less than impressed by McElwain’s 
performance as head coach. After three consecutive losses 
this season and grave upset from fans and the media alike, UF finally decided to pull the plug and fire him. McElwain led the Gators to 12 wins and 22 losses over the course of 
the two and a half seasons he held his position. We can only 
hope this laurel will lead us to a more successful football season next year.“
Champe 
Barton
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the EditorColumn
I’d like to begin by applauding re-
cent efforts to secure permanent 
funding for eight counselors to be added to the Counseling & Wellness Center. This truly is a 
fantastic stride in acquiring neces-sary mental health resources for our Student Body. However, this stride was clouded by a terrible misjudg-ment by Student Body President Smith Meyers.
Tuesday night’s announcement 
of this news should have been de-livered with the intent to invigorate 
all of the students who have worked, 
and who will continue to work, to provide our Student Body with nec-essary mental health care resources. It should have been utilized to cel-ebrate the strides made for this cause and to inspire those who have dedi-cated their voices and time to con-tinue to strive for further progress 
in UF’s provision of mental health resources.
Instead, the announcement was 
manipulated into a rather off-putting 
political move — a disappointing, gross self-aggrandizement that at-tempted to make partisan an issue 
that should not be politicized. In 
doing so, this minimized and dis-couraged the efforts of the countless other students who have been pas-sionately ﬁ  ghting this battle.
According to an Alligator article 
published Wednesday, “Meyers praised Impact Party for their efforts in the funding, saying it was not a 
bipartisan effort.”
There are countless factual errors 
with this statement. An Inspire sena-
tor wrote a letter to the editor in an attempt to raise student attention to the need for acquisition of this fund-ing. This senator aided in organizing the student attendance at the Oct. 17 Student Senate meeting Meyers 
claimed was instrumental in gain-ing the attention and cooperation 
of UF administration. Additionally, Inspire senators have been working alongside Impact Party members to co-author a resolution regarding this funding, across party lines, in what 
would be strictly deﬁ  ned as a bipar-
tisan effort. There wasn’t bipartisan attendance at Meyers’ meetings with Ernesto Escoto, the CWC director, and Vice President for Student Af-fairs David Parrott because Meyers’ opposing party wasn’t invited to or even informed of these meetings.
However, aside from pointing out 
Meyers’ public statement was a bla-tant lie aimed to mislead the Student Body into thinking only some of its Student Government representatives are ﬁ  ghting for proper funding for student mental health care, there’s a greater point to be made here.
To Meyers: securing mental 
health funding for our students 
should not be treated as an oppor-tunity to add a feather to your SG 
cap. This is about so much more than your — or any — party’s Spring campaign. You did the Student Body a gross injustice by attempting to make it into such, and you insulted 
the thousands of students who are 
affected by this issue in doing so.
Politicizing this issue and mini-
mizing the efforts of senators and students who are not in your party is a discouraging, feeble attempt at bullying them out of making change by communicating to them that their efforts don’t matter. Further, refus-
ing to work across the aisle, to share 
ideas and tactics for achieving com-mon goals that beneﬁ  t our Student Body, only limits the progress that can be made for these causes. You’re prioritizing your party’s SG political advancement over the well-being of students. Tell me, is that really worth it?
Do not dare to attempt to politi-cize this. Do not use your voice and platform for senseless political at-tacks when there are so many bet-ter ways for your words to be used. Instead, use your words to more fervently celebrate the brave voices 
that spoke at the Senate meeting on 
Oct. 17 and to encourage students to continue to work for positive change and to inform them of how best to do so.
You have a responsibility as our 
Student Body president to effectively lead and represent us. You are re-sponsible for careful consideration 
of your words, your actions and the 
impact they have. You have the po-tential to do a lot of good with them. I hope, for the sake of our students, you will learn to use them more wisely.
Ashley Grabowski is a UF 
student.
I am supposed to write about my purpose. That is an odd task, at least in my opinion, to reduce my purpose to one or two single-spaced pages. This implies a multitude of things: one, that I do have a purpose and, 
two, my purpose is applicable to the exact pro-gram and exact situation so I could sum it all up in one or two single-spaced pages. 
Well, let’s begin my purpose statement. My purpose is to further my study of litera-
ture, focusing particularly on the comparison of the Romantic Gothic and Naturalism move-ments of the 19th century, focusing on the por-trayal of women in these periods and how they 
have evolved.
My purpose is to further my writing prow-
ess, to learn how to craft a story, to take these 
years of sitting down and creating characters and sentences from thin air and use them to create something, anything, that can really dig into people.
My purpose is to further my ca-
reer in (insert speciﬁ  ed industry) be-cause I am a hard worker. I can do 
anything as long as I put my mind to 
it (a sentence I am sure you’ve read over and over). I assure you, I am different. I can do anything so long as I am passionate about it, so long as it lights a spark in me, etc. 
My purpose as a child was to 
climb up to my treehouse with a collection of “Calvin and Hobbes” comics tucked under my 
arm, not caring that the branches made me itchy 
and not knowing in two years the tree would be struck by lightning. My purpose was a sticky mouth of chocolate ice cream I never learned to eat neatly and scabs on my legs from mosquito bites I never learned to stop picking. 
My purpose as a teenager was to 
go to swim meets, racing to make my parents proud, even though I did not really care (I said I did not care, 
but I cried when I lost). The smell 
of chlorine still makes my muscles ache. My purpose was piano keys and oboe music, Advanced Place-ment Biology ﬂ  ashcards and Science Olympiad T-shirts. My purpose was homecoming dates and prom drama. 
My purpose was getting into Yale University. I didn’t get into Yale. 
My purpose was ﬁ  nding a purpose. I spent 
a long time on this one. They tell you college is the time to do this, the time to ﬁ  gure out who you are and what you want. I thought I knew it once. I thought I knew it at all these separate moments of my life. This is who I am, I once thought, I twice thought, I thought all those times. This is my purpose, I know it for sure. I was wrong. 
Maybe I was not. My purpose has changed. 
It will change. It is changing. 
My purpose is to be a good daughter, a 
good sister, a good friend and a good partner. My purpose is to leave a mark on this world that heals it. My purpose, in the end, is to have people smile fondly when they hear my name and think of someone who was not only a great person (and hopefully a great writer), but a good one.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Mental health is too important for the Student Body president to politicizeYour purpose in life will constantly change, summarizing it isn't easy
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ian Burns’ parents, Monique and Rick, hold each other’s hands as Ian’s friends share stories 
and memories of him.
THE CLUB HOPES TO HELP ALL 
WOMEN WITH THEIR HAIR CARE.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Faith Morgan walked into work 
with hair extensions, her boss said, “Oh, 
thank God.”
Before then, Morgan wore her hair in a 
natural style when she went to work at an animal hospital. She was surprised to hear her boss express a preference for the new 
style over her natural hair.“That’s how my hair looks, there’s 
nothing I can do about it,” the 20-year-old 
UF wildlife ecology and conservation ju-
nior said. 
The incident, which happened in July, 
inspired Morgan to start a club about natu-
ral hair care. The club, Girls w’ Curls, be-
came an official organization Oct. 30, and 
Morgan is the president.
Morgan said she went natural freshman 
year to help repair her damaged hair, but she had a hard time finding the right prod-
ucts to use. She hopes the club will guide 
other girls through hair care in a way she never had access to.
“I’ve been natural for three years now, 
and I’m just now figuring it out,” she said. 
She also hopes to speak with the PACE 
Center for Girls Alachua and the Boys & Girls Club of America to help young girls love their natural hair in a way Morgan 
never did. 
“Even at a young age, I always thought 
my hair was ugly,” she said. “And I feel 
like if I bring other girls from the club, I can show them our hair is pretty, too.”
Jae’Lyn Dorsey, a UF health educa-
tion and behavior junior, said she and her friends have discussed hair care and skin care informally in a group chat. When they asked how many people would be inter-
ested in a formal club, about 50 people 
replied. 
She said they’ll discuss things like how 
to keep curls moisturized, different styles 
and if the natural hair movement is a fad 
or not.
“I’m hoping for everyone to learn more 
about their hair and feel confident with their hair,” the 20-year-old said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgNew UF student organization focuses on natural hairstyles UF President Kent Fuchs 
opened the ceremony with his own take on how to live with 
grief.
“My experience is that you 
never completely recover from 
such losses; time doesn’t heal 
all wounds,” Fuchs said, ref-
erencing English poet Philip Larkin. “‘What will survive of us is love,’ and it will survive in those we leave behind.”
One by one, relatives and 
close friends shared memo-ries.
Ian’s sister Caitlin Burns, 
23, said he was her second pair of legs during their trip to Europe in May after she in-jured herself. From the tallest mountain they hiked in Wales 
to growing up back home in 
Palm Beach Gardens, he was there for her no matter what, she said.
Through tears, Ian’s moth-
er, Monique Burns, read ex-cerpts of a poem she wrote for the service.
“Sing a song of praise, sing 
a song of sweet memory,” she said, her voice shaking. “Very few live life with a smile; few-
er still make others smile.”
Kyle Cortes, a friend of 
Ian’s from high school and 
one of his two roommates, told those gathered that Ian 
was more than just a friend.
Cortes said Ian was the 
baby of the apartment, being a 
year younger than Cortes and 
their other roommate, Kevin 
Wheatle. He was “Squirly Boy” because of how he liked to climb trees and the way he could just make you smile, 
the UF music performance 
junior said. He was the worst grilled-cheese-sandwich mak-er he ever knew.
“Through his friendship, I 
found wholeness when I was still homesick and lonely,” Cortes said. “Through his friendship, I found love.”
To close out the ceremony, Cortes, Wheatle and Ian’s friends from the UF School of 
Music, Aaron Mares, Madi-
son Barrett and Claire Tendl, stood by a piano and sang one of Ian’s favorite pieces, Aaron 
Copland’s “At the River.”
Monique and Rick Burns 
stood and embraced each oth-
er as their son’s friends hon-ored him with a harmony that 
rang throughout the chapel.
It’s not about the number 
of years in a life, but rather 
the life lived in those years, 
Rick Burns said. His son lived 
life to the fullest, and he en-couraged everyone to follow suit.
“Ian was a soul that shined 
extremely bright,” he said. “Keep these memories alive, and Ian will still be alive in our hearts.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgUF President Kent Fuchs spoke 
at the memorial service 
safely perform an MRI scan mid-sur-
gery without having to transport pa-tients to a new suite. 
“We needed the facility to match 
your talent, your expertise,” Ed Jimenez, the CEO of UF Health, told medical professionals at the ceremo-
ny.
Jimenez stressed that the hospitals 
provide the opportunity for patients 
to have more procedures done at the same time.
Passaniti said the facility was built 
with patients in mind. Artwork by Gainesville artists adorn the walls, and the calming color scheme and 
warm lighting is meant to reflect 
nature, she said. On the third floor, there is a dining terrace where pa-tients can step outside and look out onto the pond at the center of the 
Circle of Hope. The monitoring ca-pabilities extend to the terrace so all 
cardiological patients can enjoy the fresh air. 
Contractors throughout the area 
are wrapping up the construction. Furniture needs to be moved in, lin-ens need to be placed on beds, and 
factory labels need to be removed 
from equipment before patients ar-rive. 
In the meantime, the hospital 
rooms will undergo a terminal clean-
ing to make them fit for operation 
and patient care. 
Fuchs said he attended the ground-
breaking for the hospitals as his first 
public event as UF’s president in Jan-
uary 2015.
“We’re opening in a little less than 
3 years,” he said. “For this many square feet and for a very specialized 
kind of facility, that’s record speed.” The complex cost $425 
million to construct 
Heaven T aylor-Wynn / Alligator Contributor
A view of the Circle of Hope and UF Health Cancer Center from the UF 
Health Heart & Vascular and UF Health Neuromedicine Hospitals’ third-floor terrace. 
MEMORIAL,  from pg. 1HOSPITAL,  from pg. 1FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 130 scientists gathered at UF 
this week to work toward a yearslong goal of 
digitizing one billion biological specimens.
The Florida Museum of Natural History, 
located at 3215 Hull Road, and iDigBio, which stands for Integrated Digitized Bio-collections, are hosting the annual National 
Science Foundation’s Advancing Digitiza-
tion of Biodiversity Collections Summit, which started Thursday and lasts until to-day.
Scientists are visiting from across the 
U.S., Japan, England and Denmark, said Paul Ramey, the assistant director of mar-keting and public relations for the museum.
“The museum is one of the leaders of 
the iDigBio project, along with Florida State (University),” Ramey said.iDigBio is funded by the National Science 
Foundation. Its goal is to get information on 
biological specimens online and available to 
the public, said Larry Page, the director of iDigBio. The project is housed in the Florida Museum.
The museum has 22 million specimen in 
its collections from as far back as the 1700s, including some now-extinct creatures.
“You can’t just go out and look at them,” 
Page said. “The live ones are at the zoo, the 
dead ones are here.”
iDigBio already has more than 105 mil-
lion specimen’s information available on-
line, but it is working on a decadelong proj-ect to digitize one billion specimens. They 
expect to complete the project by 2021, Page 
said.
“The most exciting part of the Summit is 
the progress that each funded institution is 
making,” Page said.UF hosts scientists to discuss 
the digitization of data
By Anna Cappelli
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can save a spot 
to ignite a sky lantern at an upcoming 
lights festival.
The Lights Fest, a festival that pro-
vides lanterns and tiki torches to attend-ees who wish to send personal messages into the sky, travels to cities across the 
U.S. and Canada. The festival has no 
set date in Gainesville. Admission to the event ranges in cost from $25 to $55, de-pending on the time participants register, according to the festival’s website.
The festival started two years ago, 
said Madie Stone, the festival’s head of media relations. She said the event, al-though usually massive in size, is an ex-
perience for the individuals who attend.
“At the perfect moment, everyone ig-nites their personalized sky lanterns with 
tiki torches and lets them take ﬂ  ight,” 
Stone said. “It creates a surreal ambi-
ance, where time slows down as your single ﬂ  ame rises with thousands of oth-ers.”
She said the organization is getting 
permits and plans to host the event in 2017.
Alex Sikoryak, a UF business adminis-
tration sophomore, recently participated 
in a similar activity with the morale team 
for Dance Marathon. Sikoryak, 20, and the group wrote their wishes on paper lanterns and sent them into the air. 
“Releasing the lanterns into the dark 
sky as a group reminded us how we must be a light and how inﬁ  nite the pos-sibilities are when we are working as a collective group because, together, our 
lanterns lit up the whole sky,” she said. Light festival to come 
to Gainesville this yearTHE LEASING OFFICE HOSTED A 
GRAND OPENING WEDNESDAY.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Yet another multistory student hous-
ing complex will be joining the fabric of 
Gainesville at the end of July.
The Nine at Gainesville is expected to be 
completed in time for early move-ins July 31 
at 1115 SW 13th St., wrote Ashley Hahn, the leasing manager at The Nine, in an email.
The 627-bedroom complex will include 
amenities like a two-story ﬁ  tness facility, zero entry resort style pool, a ﬂ  at-screen TV in ev-
ery unit and a two-lane bowling alley.
“We are incredibly excited for our bowling 
alley as we are the ﬁ  rst student housing com-
munity to add a bowling alley to their portfo-
lio,” she wrote.
The apartment complex, which is being 
built near UF Health Shands Hospital, offers 
one-bedroom to ﬁ  ve-bedroom ﬂ  oor plans. 
The rent prices begin at $695, Hahn wrote. Prior to the grand opening of the leasing of-ﬁ  ce Wednesday, all of the ﬁ  ve-bedroom ﬂ  oor plans and one of the two-bedroom ﬂ  oor plans were sold out. Hahn expected most, if not all, of the units to be leased after Wednesday’s grand opening.
Brandon Badamtchian, a UF biomedical 
engineering sophomore, wanted to be sure he would have a spot at the new complex, so he was the ﬁ  rst one in the door for the grand opening of the leasing ofﬁ  ce.
Considering the proximity to campus, price 
and amenities offered, Badamtchian said The 
Nine was a perfect ﬁ  t for him.
The 19-year-old said he was a little anxious 
about signing a lease for an apartment com-
plex that isn’t complete, but it didn’t affect his 
decision to sign.
“Coming here and talking to (leasing 
agents), they kind of put my mind at ease,” he 
said. “By the time I get there, I’m pretty sure they’ll have everything together.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgStudent apartment complex to open on Southwest 13th Street
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
The Nine at Gainesville, currently under construction, will open in July. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
GAINESVILLE IS ONE OF 
94 CITIES NATIONALL Y IN 
THE INITIATIVE.
By Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville joined a national 
network of 94 cities Tuesday to 
learn how it can better help resi-
dents.
The What Works Cities initia-
tive, created by Bloomberg Philan-
thropies, helps city governments 
use data to improve efﬁ  ciency and transparency, said Sharman Stein, the initiative’s director of communications. Gainesville will 
work with ﬁ  ve expert partners 
from Bloomberg Philanthropies, a charity that funds national im-provements in government, the 
arts, public health, education and 
the environment. The data, which Gainesville already collected, will be better organized and analyzed with the help of the initiative, Stein said.
“We believe data can help build trust between local resi-
dents and local government,” she 
said. 
What Works Cities accepts cit-
ies that apply on a rolling basis, 
Stein said.
“In the fabric of the network 
cities, cities learn a lot from each 
other and adapt ideas from one another,” she said.
Chip Skinner, a city spokesper-
son, said Gainesville will create a website for citizens to view the data, which will strengthen gov-
ernment accountability.
“The purpose of our city is the 
people of our city,” Skinner said.
Harvey Ward, the Gainesville 
city commissioner of District 2, said he is excited for the city’s 
collaboration with the initiative.
“This puts our city in an elite 
group of communities that are 
thoughtfully preparing for the 
best the 21st century has to offer our citizens,” he said. “The ben-eﬁ  ts of this partnership will be plentiful, and I can’t wait to dig 
deeper into it.”National charity to 
help city organize data
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A small group of men were 
detained by police Tuesday af-
ter two allegedly threatened and struck another man in the face with a shotgun near Southwest 
13th Street.
Gainesville Police said ofﬁ  cers 
responded to a call at about 3:25 
p.m. from the man who said two people pointed a shotgun at him. The man said the two men hit him in the chest with the muzzle and pulled him inside their third-ﬂ  oor apartment at Campus View Place, 
located at 1240 SW Ninth Road, 
GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said. 
The man was injured in the 
face and eye before he escaped the apartment and ran to the neighboring apartment complex, The Retreat Gainesville, located at 1001 SW 17th Lane, where he 
called police, Tobias said. 
When responding ofﬁ  cers 
knocked on the door of the apart-
ment, a group of men tried to escape by scaling down the wall of the building to the complex parking lot from their third-ﬂ  oor balcony. The men were detained and police searched the apart-ment, Tobias said. Ofﬁ  cers found marijuana, baggies and a shotgun. Tobias said it was possible drugs were being sold in the apartment.
No arrests have been made as of press time, and police are still drafting an incident re-port, Tobias said. 
The investigation is ongoing, 
he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
GPD: Men detained for striking, 
pointing shotgun at man · CRIME ROUNDUP ·
APD: Man arrested for possessing 167 
grams of marijuana 
HE TOLD POLICE HE HAD 
MARIJUANA IN HIS CAR.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Wednes-
day after police found about 167 grams of 
marijuana in his car, Alachua Police said.
Dax John Guzek, 19, was pulled over in 
his white sedan for running a stop sign at 
about 10:54 p.m., according to the report. 
Police told Guzek to stand by an ofﬁ  cer’s 
car and went to get his registration. 
As they approached the car, Guzek told 
ofﬁ  cers he had marijuana 
in the car and gave them 
a mason jar containing 
about 39 grams of mari-
juana, police said. Ofﬁ  -
cers searched the rest of the car and found a bag 
with about 124 grams of 
marijuana, a scale, a pill 
bottle with about four grams of marijuana 
and a grinder, according to the report.
Police also found a black Hi-Point pistol, 
which was loaded, under the passenger seat 
and within arm’s reach of where Guzek was 
sitting in the car, according to the report. In the back seat, ofﬁ  cers found plastic bags, which they said were commonly used to sell marijuana.
Guzek was arrested on charges of pos-
session of marijuana with intent to sell, possession of a ﬁ  rearm during a felony and drug equipment possession. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail, where he re-mains, as of press time, with no bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
ACSO: Man arrested, shocked with 
Taser after hitting another man
THE DAMAGE TO THE INN WAS 
VALUED AT $500.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Micanopy man was tased and arrested 
after punching a window and hitting a man 
with a metal padlock at Micanopy Inn on 
Tuesday night, Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-ﬁ  ce said.
Sean Pierce, 44, was drinking alcohol all 
day and had past grievances with the man 
at the inn, located at 17110 County Road 
234, according to an arrest report. Pierce wrapped his hand in a towel and punched the window of the man’s room at about 
10:45 p.m., creating damage that was val-
ued at $500 by the inn’s management, ac-
cording to the report.
Pierce then grabbed the man in the 
parking lot of the inn and pushed him to a nearby open ﬁ  eld to ﬁ  ght him, police said. Pierce used a metal padlock tied to an elec-trical cord to hit the man in the torso and back, leaving visible injuries.
The man escaped and police arrived at the scene. Deputies com-manded Pierce to get on 
the ground, but he acted 
aggressively and resisted, 
according to the report.
Police shocked Pierce 
with a Taser. He did not 
have a history of criminal 
mischief, according to the 
report.
Pierce was arrested on charges of aggra-
vated battery, damage to property and re-
sisting arrest. He was taken to the Alachua 
County Jail where he remains, as of press 
time, in lieu of a $35,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
ACSO: Two men found with fake, 
stolen licences, credit cards
THE MEN WERE FROM 
ORLANDO.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Orlando men were arrested 
Wednesday for stolen and forged drivers 
licenses found in their car during a trafﬁ  c 
stop, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Jimmy Lee Woodard, 33, and An-
drew James Owens, 43, were pulled over 
Wednesday for illegally tinted windows 
on Interstate 75 near mile marker 373, ac-
cording to the arrest report. When ofﬁ  cers approached the car, Woodard admitted to 
smoking a marijuana blunt. 
Police searched the car and found fake 
driver’s licenses, credit cards and social se-
curity cards belonging to other people, ac-
cording to the report. In the center console, 
there was a crack pipe and marijuana blunt, police said. 
When police searched 
Owen, they found a driv-
er’s license, credit card 
and social security card belonging to someone else, according to the re-
port.
Owens told ofﬁ  cers 
he was homeless and 
had found the false cards 
four days ago, accord-ing to the report. He said 
he planned to return the items to their owners for a cash reward.
Woodard was arrested 
on charges of fraud, pos-session of forged IDs, pos-
session of stolen credit cards, possession of marijuana and driving with a suspended 
licence. Owens was arrested on charges of 
fraud, possession of forged IDs, possession of another person’s ID and possession of drug paraphernalia. The men were taken 
to the Alachua County Jail where they re-
main, as of press time. Woodard is being held on no bond, and Owens is being held on a $25,000 bond. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgGuzek
Pierce
Woodard
Owens
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police responds to a call outside an apartment 
complex on Southwest 13th Street Tuesday. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
ACCELERATED SALE9 UNIQUE WATERFRONT LOTSPort Charlotte, FLBID ONLINEBids Close: November 9 @ 3 PMSVN Accelerated Saleswww.SVNAuctions.com941-882- 0586       11-3-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
Queen-size hide-a-bed sofa, salmon color, 
good shape $250; 2 living room chairs, mauve, swivel $50/ea; used wooden student desk, mahogany color, 62x23x30" w/7 draw-ers $100; black desk chair on rollers $25. Call Ron 352-843-8998    11-8-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAT - ALTRUSA YARD SALE
8am to 1pm, 1824 NW 39th Ave, G'ville
Annual Sale for Local Charities
11-3-17-1-10
Live & Online Public AuctionThursday, November 9 at 10:00 AMSaint Rachael, Inc. d/b/a PuroClean6130 Clark Center Ave, Ste 107,Sarasota, FL 34238Sale will consist of: Water, Fire, Mold and Biohazard Damage Restoration Equipment, 2012 Mercedes-Benz Sprinter High Roof Cargo Van w/3.0L V6 DOHC 24V Turbo Diesel Engine, 2010 Chevy Express 2500 Extended Cargo Van w/4.8L V8 OHV 16V Engine, Warehouse Equipment, Hand/Power Tools, Office Equipment & Office Furniture. Catalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.comPreview: 1 hour prior to sale - 15%-18% BP - $100 refundable cash deposit to register(800) 840-BIDSinfo@moeckerauctions.comAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     11-3-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com    1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N      11-3-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
CERTIFIED PART TIMELIFE GUARDS NEEDEDThe 300 Club Tennis and SwimConveniently located to campus    11-8-17-3-14
JOB FAIR! Nov 7-8, 2-4pm
GAOTR BTW - G'ville's newest premier din-
ing experience - Burgers + Tacos + Wings. 
1404 W University Ave. Across from Gator 
Wesley Foundation. For more info: 352-362-
9677, nickhurricanebtw@gmail.com    11-8-
14-3-14
Oak Hall School hiring for 2018-19
Academic Dean(PreSchool-12 th grade) and 
Head of Lower School (PreSchool-Grade 5) 
Respond to: tedling@schoolstrat.com    11-
13-17-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       11-17-17-6-14
PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place
Experience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 
352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience 
preferred. Must have director's credential. Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDAffordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Free
6 Crusty formation
10 One in a farm
array
14 Truism15 Kappa preceder16 Entry
17 Saint toppers
18 Equine footwork
19 Glitz
20 Renewed one’s
energy, in a way
21 Counseling for
boomers’ kids?
24 Santa __:
Sonoma Countyseat
25 Complimentary
writers
26 Sign on a film
studio
employee’sdoor?
31 Words of desire32 Room at the
hacienda
33 Fast hit36 Gave for a while37 Some rank
indicators
39 Corona product
40 Disturbance
41 “Write once, run
anywhere”software
42 One with many
mouths to feed?
43 Altered clone of
actor Richard?
46 French gambling
game
49 Zero
50 Molecular
manipulation
technique ... and
a hint to the
starts of the three
other longest
puzzle answers
53 Sudden turn
56 Advantage
57 Bunches
58 Immune system
component
60 Food
preservative
61 Cithara relative62 Clear, in a way63 “__ bien!”64 Word appearing
twice in a WoodyGuthrie title
65 Synthetic
polymerDOWN
1 Turner of “The
Bad and the
Beautiful”
2 It’s a turnoff3 What’s up at the
deadline?
4 Mushy lump
5 “Yikes!”6 Traffic or turn
follower
7 Influence with
flattery
8 Studying like
crazy, say
9 Tub soothers
10 Interstate rumbler
11 Condemned Titan
12 Jumped
13 “Game of
Thrones”
accumulation
22 Zener cards
presumablytested for it
23 “Show Boat”
author Ferber
24 Take a load off26 __ monster27 Was required to
pay
28 Yucatán
youngster
29 Sunni’s religion30 Indoor __33 Force user
34 NASA prefix
35 Muffin option
37 Left nothing out38 Big event lead-in
39 Data measure
41 Ballet jump
42 Do a surfing
maneuver
43 Shakes hands
with, say
44 Bonded
45 Weigh station unit46 Get rid of47 Wood for grilling
planks
48 What “x” may be
in trigonometry
51 Former NHL
winger Kovalchuk
52 Uncertain53 Gusto
54 “Just one more
thing ... ”
55 Narrow valley
59 Sound of woe
By Daniel Nierenberg ©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/03/1711/03/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 3, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Ford crossover
SUV
5 Fawning flattery
10 Void partner
14 Melt fish
15 Surrounding
glows
16 Pennsylvania city
subject to lake-
effect snow
17 Where to find
37-Across
20 Go hog-wild21 Gardener’s
transplant
22 Penn of “Harold
& Kumar” films
23 U.N. workers’ gp.
24 Where to find
37-Across
33 Table spreads
34 Ostrich kin
35 “__ rule ... ”36 Clutter-free37 Road trip
troubles ... and
what can befound in 17-, 24-,
43- and 57-
Across
39 Piedmont bubbly
40 Nine-time NHL
All-Star
41 Walk or run
42 Cathedral areas43 Where to find
37-Across
47 Map line: Abbr.
48 Kendrick Lamar’s
genre
49 Greek vowels
52 Send up57 Where to find
37-Across
60 Popular jeans
61 “Once Upon a
Time in China”
star
62 Attitude63 White-tailed
seabird
64 Dutch painter of
“The Drawing
Lesson”
65 Poker buy-in
DOWN
1 Abbr. in an
abbreviated list
2 Con
3 Pest you might
slap
4 British peer5 South Pacific
islander
6 Oaty breakfast
mix
7 Obama
Education
secretary
Duncan
8 Traitor9 [Yawn]
10 Cell using a
synapse
11 Bear in the sky12 Willingly13 For fear that
18 Tips for dealers
19 Checks figures
intently?
23 Post-op sites
24 Dismissive words
25 Last Olds off the
line
26 Furnish with
more weapons
27 One of four in
Mississippi
28 Under, poetically29 Clock-setting std.30 Italian
Renaissance poet
31 Aromatic
compound
32 Jack up37 Ramadan ritual38 Fleur-de-__39 Germane
41 Grate together,
as teeth
42 Mold that’s cold44 Slide by
45 Big name in
databases
46 Has leftovers,
say
49 Daysail
destination
50 Terminer’s
partner, in law51 Feds under 
Ness
52 Place to build
53 Parks whose
famous bus is in
the Henry Ford
Museum
54 Shah’s former
land
55 Fragrant peel
56 Cato’s “to be”
58 a.m. beverages
59 Fishing aid
By Peg Slay©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/02/1711/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Cast members
1.  Canopy 5.  Richard ____
2.  Fabric6.  Saying 
3.  One on a fixed income7.  Almost 
4.  Meager SCOATR
GNAIWNNONXI
MIIDO
XITTELE
ENEIRRTLNERYA
MYSPKIANSWERS: 1A-Actors  5A-Nixon  6A-Idiom  7A-Nearly
1D-Awning  2D-Textile  3D-Rentier  4D-Skimpy  B-Oscar winners11-3-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Some actors are ____ ____, 
but most are not. BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsBy Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
In the thick of the ﬁ  rst half, Kevarrius Hayes 
sent a Jacksonville shot back and into the hands 
of KeVaughn Allen.
Allen galloped down the court, muscling his 
way inside for a running layup that found its mark. Although just an exhibition game, Flor-ida’s 88-47 road win against the Jacksonville 
Dolphins still answered several burning ques-
tions throughout the offseason and reﬂ  ected the team’s potential.UF coach Mike White stressed that the team 
still had much to improve upon, and that its AP preseason ranking of No. 8 is nothing more than a number.
“How we handle the expectations is we 
don’t think about it, period,” White said. “It’s a distraction, it really is.”
One of the most pressing questions was 
ﬁ  nding new sources of offense, with two of the three double-digit scorers from last season gone.
In the ﬁ  rst half, Allen nearly took on that role 
all by himself. The junior poured in 14 of his 17 points in the ﬁ  rst half, scoring more than once on drives to the rim and nailing a pair of three pointers.
Allen also showcased playmaking skills, ﬁ  n-
ishing the game with six assists. For a team that 
lost one of its premiere playmakers in Kasey 
Hill, Allen’s passing ability is a promising sign. 
Florida’s primary ball-handler, Chris Chioz-
za, sprained his left shoulder after playing just 
two minutes, forcing Allen into a heavier play-
making role.
Despite Allen's complete ﬁ  rst half, the Gators 
An own goal by defender Sara 
Wilson cost the Gators a shot at winning the SEC T ournament on Thursday when they were knocked out by T exas A&M. Read the story, pg. 15.UF's Perez advances in Fall National Championships 
Gators men's tennis player Alfredo Perez is moving on to the next round 
of the National Fall Championships in California after a singles win on Thursday. Read the full highlights from Florida's matches online at                                      alligator.org/sports. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
As Randy Shannon stood in 
front of a group of reporters on Monday, his ﬁ  rst appearance as the interim coach of the Florida football team, he was asked what — if any — changes he will make.
“You have to change some-
thing,” Shannon said, “or it be-comes stagnant.” 
That change came on Thurs-
day.
Shannon announced that 
graduate transfer Malik Zaire will start at quarterback against 
Missouri on Saturday in place of 
redshirt freshman Feleipe Franks. 
The change comes after arguably the worst game of Franks’ career, one in which he completed just 
seven of 19 passes for 30 yards, 
turned the ball over twice and 
was sacked ﬁ  ve times in last week’s loss to Georgia. 
Zaire entered the game in the 
fourth quarter, leading UF on its 
only touchdown drive.
Now, Zaire and the rest of the 
Gators (3-4, 3-3 SEC) will try to 
revive their lifeless offense and win their ﬁ  rst game since Sept. 30 when they travel to play the Tigers (3-5, 0-4 SEC) at noon.
Florida will also try to recap-
ture the momentum it had when it won three consecutive confer-ence games in mid- to late Sep-tember. It will try to revive a sea-son with little left worth saving, already out of contention for an SEC East title and likely playing for a middling bowl game come December or January. And it will attempt to move past the distrac-tions of the last two weeks — including accusations of death threats, a head coaching change and a 35-point blowout loss — in one of the strangest periods the UF athletic department has un-dergone in recent memory.
But Brandon Powell isn’t wor-
ried. He’s seen stranger.
“I’ve been through, what, nine 
quarterbacks now in four years? Two head coaches?” the senior receiver said on Monday. “I don’t think it can get any stranger than that.”
On Monday, several players 
admitted it was difﬁ  cult to accept McElwain’s ﬁ  ring and move on to their next opponent. But they all had one clear message.
“I’m just worrying about Mis-
souri,” Powell said.“Everyone’s main focus is on 
Missouri,” running back Mark Thompson said.
“The only thing I see is Mis-
souri,” Shannon said.
But for Florida, and for Shan-
non, forgetting about the last week and focusing on its next opponent won’t be as simple as  Gators head into Missouri with Zaire as starter
Courtesy of UAA Communications
UF interim coach Randy Shannon announced Thursday that Notre Dame transfer Malik Zaire (above) will start at quarterback for Florida when the Gators play Missouri on Saturday. 
Staff Report
After a memorable 1,061-day stretch 
serving as Florida’s football coach, Jim 
McElwain’s reign in Gainesville came crumbling down on Sunday afternoon.
UF athletic director Scott Stricklin 
announced that the University Athletic Association and McElwain “mutually agreed to part ways,” which is just fancy talk for saying the UAA exclaimed good riddance and ﬁ  red the hell out of him after a miserable week headlined by claims of death threats and an embar-rassing 35-point loss to Georgia.
Now, the Gators are moving on un-
der the leadership of Randy Shannon as they attempt to ﬁ  nish this train wreck of a season on a high note, starting this Sat-urday with a matchup against Missouri.
But what about McElwain? What 
does he do now? He is unemployed, af-ter all.
Well, here at alligatorSports, we are 
strong believers in the adage “the world 
is your oyster,” and we see lots of poten-
tial in McElwain outside of the realm of football.
He could do practically anything he 
wants, but sports editor Matt Brannon and assistant sports editor Dylan Dix-on have two particular occupations in mind. They debate that topic below:
McElwain should run for president 
because…
There are three main reasons why 
McElwain would make a great com-mander in chief. 1) He cares about the environment. Everyone saw his hands-on approach with a particular shark in the spring, which shows a real passion and clear interest in animals. 2) He’s not 
afraid to go nuclear. It’s good to have 
someone who isn’t afraid to pull the trig-ger, as we saw when McElwain put a gun to the head of Florida’s season and splattered death-threat controversy all over the wall. 3) He has what it takes to win a campaign. McElwain’s going to have plenty of money in the bank after a massive buyout from UF, and he’s got 
the free time to wander around the coun-
try and ramble to people that like him — apparently the two things people look for most in a U.S. president.
- Matt BrannonPICKS
SITE: Faurot Field (cap. 71,004)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN2 / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL: UF 88, JAX 47
 Gators flash their potential in exhibition win  VS.McElwain should become a pole dancer 
because…
The internet lost its mind several months 
ago when a man who looks EXACTLY like 
McElwain was photographed lying completely butt-naked on top of a dead shark.
Florida’s former head coach adamantly 
denied that he was the individual pictured in 
said photograph, but that’s neither here nor 
there. Regardless of whether it actually was McElwain or not, the hoopla around that im-age proved one thing: people want to see the 55-year-old proudly showing off his birthday suit as he holds onto an object twice his height.
Pole dancing is the perfect career change 
for McElwain. The crowds he would draw to watch him perform “My milkshake brings 
all the boys to the yard” would be enough to 
ﬁ  ll up all of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium and then some.
So let’s make this happen, coach Mac. You 
need to give the people what they want.
- Dylan Dixon
Now, on to our competitors!
In ﬁ  rst, at 45-26, is 247Sports’ Thomas 
“M” Goldkamp, who we learned recently has 
a middle name that begins with M. While it probably stands for something lame like Mar-shall or Matilda, the M is ﬁ  tting for Thomas since he’s mainly a mild-mannered media member mostly mumbling mundane McEl-wain minutia. 
Next, in a four-way tie for second at 38-33, 
is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “golf is my 
life“ Thompson, who would rather spend his afternoons playing 18 holes on the greens than do his actual job covering Florida’s foot-ball team. Edgar’s love for the most boring sport on earth has gotten so bad he recently changed the name off his dog to “102,” which is the score he shot last week while he skipped Randy Shannon’s opening press conference 
as Florida’s head coach. Someone clearly has 
their priorities straight.
Also at 38-33 is the Alligator’s Ethan “in-
fatuated with fantasy” Bauer, who missed work this week because he was busy with FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
PICKS,  from pg. 14Eight Gators writers pick eight games from across college foot ballSOCCER: A&M 2, UF 1
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Sara Wilson retreated into her 
own jersey at the end of the game. 
As the gritty match that featured 
29 combined fouls waned into extra time, the junior defender from Hern-
don, Virginia, had an opportunity to 
head the ball away on another one of Texas A&M’s relentless attacks. She got into position, just inside her own 
box, and put her skull to the ball. 
But as coach Becky Burleigh said 
earlier this season, “Sometimes soc-
cer is a funny game.”
The ball ricocheted off Wilson’s 
head and into a perfect arc that landed just inside the far post behind goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese. Wilson buried her head as her teammates gathered to console her. 
The No. 17 Gators (14-6-0) lost 
to the No. 11 Aggies (16-2-1), 2-1, Thursday night in the semiﬁ  nals of the SEC Tournament. The Aggies will move on to a spot in the champion-ship match against Arkansas, while the Gators will wait for the NCAA Tournament’s bracket to come out on Monday.
Texas A&M came out on ﬁ  re early 
in each half. The Aggies held posses-sion for much of the ﬁ  rst 25 minutes before Burleigh decided to adjust her strategy, calling for her forwards to 
stretch A&M over the top. 
“I think that change made a big 
difference,” Burleigh said at halftime. 
Sarah Troccoli was another differ-
ence maker. She came on as a substi-
tute in the 26th minute and had four minutes to get adjusted with the ﬁ  eld, her opponent and the game’s speed before she found herself in the right 
place at the right time. After running 
up to a deﬂ  ected pass 25 yards from goal, the junior from Troy, Michigan, hit a screaming shot on the ground and into the corner of the Texas A&M net for her third goal of the season and the early 1-0 lead.
Early in the ﬁ  rst half, it was 
Marckese showing off why she’s 
been in the Gators’ net since she came 
back from an early-season hand inju-ry. In a one-on-one situation against First Team All-SEC forward Ally Watt in the 10th minute, Marckese made a hockey-style kick save to keep the game scoreless. Marckese came up with three more saves on the night, with two coming in quick succession just before Wilson’s own goal. 
But the Gators' back line could 
not hold. After the half, A&M contin-ued its high press. The Aggies were rewarded in the 69th minute when both Gators center backs misjudged a long ball that fell at the feet of Rhea-gan Smith, daughter of legendary UF running back Emmitt Smith. She took a few dribbles before driving a shot inside the far post for her ﬁ  rst goal of 
the season.
After both teams failed to score 
the rest of the way, the game pro-
ceeded into sudden-death overtime. The match marks the ﬁ  rst time this season that Florida has scored ﬁ  rst and lost.
A TV broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
 Own goal sinks Gators’ chances of winning SEC Tournament
Courtesy of UAA Communications
UF goalie Kaylan Marckese (above) was unable to stop an own goal  
in the Gators' 2-1 loss to T exas A&M in the SEC T ournament. 
dungeons and dragons. We’re 
not talking about the board game. We’re talking about Ethan’s pecu-liar fetish where he’s fed ﬂ  aming hot Cheetos while chained to a 
medieval bed frame. 
After Ethan, at 38-33, is the 
Alligator’s Ian “I am a walking 
oxymoron“ Cohen, who — as 
an amateur sports writer — has openly proclaimed that he dis-likes, even hates, sports. Want to strike up a friendly conversation with the Alligator’s resident Jew? 
Don’t bring up that crazy touch-
down pass you saw in the Toledo – Bowling Green game last week. Ian wants no part of it, so don’t even mention a word about balls, bats or baskets. The only response you’ll get in return is a death stare and the middle ﬁ  nger.
The ﬁ  nal lovable loser at 38-33 
is Gator Country’s Nick “pizza 
provocateur” de la Torre, who 
recently posted his ill-informed 
opinion that Papa John’s has terri-ble pizza. Nick’s Twitter followers appropriately called him out for his embarrassing and reprehen-sible remarks. Much like Nick’s own papa, we’re not upset at him; we’re just disappointed. 
Dropping all the way down 
to sixth place, at 37-34, is the Gainesville Sun's Graham "alco-
hol numbs the pain" Hall, who has recently taken up drinking as a means for coping with his recent plummet in the picks col-umn standings. Alcohol is never the answer, Graham. Just because you're unable to accept the fact that Ursinus defeated Susquehan-na two weeks ago, that doesn't 
mean you can drunkenly storm 
into an interview with Eddy Pi-neiro and mock him for missing that extra point against LSU. Get a grip.
In seventh, at 33-38, is the Al-
ligator’s Dylan “dinosaur devo-
tee” Dixon, who hasn’t shut up about dinosaurs since he learned 
they were real and not just mythi-
cal creatures. We get it, Dylan, brontosauruses are big. If you’re fascinated with a brontosaurus, just wait until you see a thesaurus. That way, you can ﬁ  nd something new to drone on about instead of some prehistoric plant eater. 
And in dead last with a pa-
thetic 32-39 record is the Alliga-tor’s Matt “where the f--- is my 
car” Brannon, who called a col-
league after class on Thursday to let him know he’d be late to work because he couldn’t remember where he’d parked his car. Matt’s memory isn’t the greatest, proba-bly because of all the concussions he’s suffered getting into bar ﬁ  ghts downtown. Just take the bus next 
time, dude. Maybe it’ll help you 
get over your crippling fear of homeless people.
Stan Stan Stan WSU(-2.5)
WSU WSU WSU WSU
(2.5)
(-5)
(-2) VS.VS.16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2017
it sounds. To many of them, McElwain’s de-
parture came as a shock.
“It’s hard. Everybody loves coach Mac. I 
love coach Mac,” Shannon said on Monday. 
“But we have to be competitive. We have to 
win.”
The Gators are hoping for a similar out-
come to 2014, when Florida defeated Eastern 
Kentucky, 52-3, the game after UF announced coach Will Muschamp wouldn’t be returning for the next season. And even though the two situations are different — Muschamp coached his remaining three games while Florida cut off all ties with McElwain on Sun-day — players are conﬁ  dent they can conjure up a similar result.
“We can’t fall off after something like 
this happens,” redshirt senior punter Johnny Townsend said. “We’ve got to focus on our mindset and ﬁ  nish strong.”And against Missouri, Florida’s chances 
look good.
The Tigers have yet to win an SEC game 
and rank near the bottom of the confer-ence in several defensive categories, includ-ing scoring defense (12th), rushing defense (10th), passing defense (13th) and intercep-tions (T-10th).
However, Mizzou has one of the better of-
fenses in the SEC — ranking fourth in scoring offense at 35.5 points per game — and has scored a combined 120 points over its last two games, wins against UConn and Idaho.
“It’s going to be a big challenge for us,” 
Shannon said.
But with Zaire at quarterback, Florida is 
hoping for a jolt of energy and a renewed fo-cus instilled into a program potentially facing its ﬁ  rst losing season since 2013.
“We need to continue to work,” Dawson 
said. “We need to bring the swag back a little more.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org 
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Florida faces Mizzou on Saturday at noon
still had a tough time creating sepa-
ration on the scoreboard early.
The Dolphins found ﬁ  rst-half suc-
cess inside, with forward Radwan Bakkali leading Jacksonville with seven points and ﬁ  ve boards before heading into halftime. At the half, 
the home team trailed by just 11.
In the second half, Florida com-
peted with a renewed intensity.
The Gators came out ﬁ  ring on 
all levels, beginning the frame with an 18-0 run.  They forced tough of-
fensive possessions on the Dolphins, who couldn’t get a second half score until more than ﬁ  ve minutes in. By 
the end of the onslaught, Florida had 
built a sturdy 29-point lead.
Overall, Jacksonville shot 23.4 
percent from the ﬁ  eld and coughed up 19 turnovers.
“Stops leading to transition of-
fense,” White said. “That needs to be our strength. We’ve got to get better, (we’re) not close to last year’s 
group in that regard right now.”
Redshirt junior guard Jalen Hud-
son — Florida’s transfer from Virgin-
ia Tech — scored eight of his team-leading 21 points during the long run, including two three-pointers.
Egor Koulechov, the Gators other 
transfer pickup, began the preseason on a high note, adding 17 points in his UF debut.
Freshmen Deaundrae Ballard and 
Mike Okauru along with redshirt freshman Dontay Bassett all made their college debuts as well.
Ballard chipped in 11 points, 
while Bassett and Okauru combined 
for nine points and 11 boards.
While Florida looked strong over-
all, White wants more from the unit.
“Yeah, I don’t feel better,” White 
said of the team’s performance. “But 
I feel like we’re closer because we’ve got that ﬁ  lm that never lies.” 
The Gators will get another 
chance at a practice game Sunday 
against Tampa at 2 p.m. before 
opening the season on Nov. 13 at home against Gardner-Webb.
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Gators transfer Jalen Hudson scores team-best 21 points in win
Grace King / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White said Florida did a good job of converting turnovers into points against Jacksonville. 
