We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Can Dan Mullen handle 
the pressure?
Being Florida’s football coach is one of the toughest jobs in sports, pg. 14. 11-year-old given second chance by Shands
The St. Croix native received a heart transplant, pg. 3
UF alumna recognized for promoting inclusivity
She helps minorities get involved in STEM ﬁ  elds, pg. 10VOLUME 112 ISSUE 38
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
The Associated Press
Dan Mullen (right) has been hired as the next head coach of Florida’s football program, the school announced Sunday evening. Mullen served as Mississippi State’s head coach for the past nine seasons and was UF’s offensive coordinator from 2005 to 2008.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Less than one decade after helping Florida win 
two national championships over a three-year 
span, Dan Mullen is coming back to Gainesville.
UF has ﬁ  nalized a deal to hire Mullen as the 
next head coach of its football program, the 
school conﬁ  rmed on Sunday evening.
Mullen was the Gators’ offensive coordinator 
from 2005 to 2008 and spent the past nine sea-
sons as head coach at Mississippi State.
His 69-46 record with the Bulldogs makes 
him the second-winningest coach in the school’s history, and the team’s 8-4 (4-4 SEC) record this fall earned it a bowl-game bid for the eighth con-secutive year.
In Mullen’s tenure at Florida, the Gators went 
44-9, averaged 36.3 points per game, 6.5 yards per play and had a total quarterback rating of 77.0, all of which ranked ﬁ  rst in the SEC over that span. His high-powered offense also led UF to national titles in 2006 and 2008.
“(My wife) Megan and I are very excited to 
get back to Gainesville and the University of Flor-ida,” Mullen said in a release. “I have such great 
memories of the championships we won during 
our time here and have a love for Florida.”
Aside from coaching former Heisman winner 
Tim Tebow, Mullen also coached current Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott at Mississip-pi State and current Kansas City Chiefs quarter-back Alex Smith at Utah.
Florida athletic director Scott Stricklin worked 
with Mullen while serving as Mississippi State’s 
athletic director from 2010 to 2016 and said the 
45-year-old coach is “one of the best offensive minds in all of college football.”
“I strongly believe Dan is the most prepared 
candidate to have immediate and long-term suc-cess at the University of Florida,” Stricklin said in a release.A NEW MULLENNIUM: Gators hire Dan Mullen as head coach
SEE COACH,  PAGE 14
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Richard Rose was a chameleon onstage.
The UF dance professor of more than 
30 years took on dozens of roles, immers-
ing himself in each character.
During one performance of “Don Quix-
ote,” a dancer dropped an earring on 
stage. Still in character as Sancho Panza, 
Rose picked it up and took a bite to see if it 
was gold. Kim Tuttle, the executive assis-tant director of Dance Alive National Bal-let, said it was improvisational but com-pletely in character.
“He was an entertainer but he’s also 
profound,” the 69-year-old said. “Most of what I remember was his ability to trans-form on stage.” 
Now, Rose’s former students reﬂ  ect on 
their memories of his performances after 
Rose, 61, died on Nov. 18. 
Rose died of lung cancer at 9:30 
a.m. at Haven Hospice, according to the 
Gainesville Sun. His services will take 
place Dec. 22 at 1 p.m. at First Baptist Church in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
Tuttle said when she thinks of Rose, 
she remembers his dedication to dance 
and the way he attracted people to him.
“He was like a magnet,” Tuttle said. 
“Everyone wanted to be around him.”By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Bethan Shipway fears she may have to move 
back to England if U.S. senators pass a new tax 
reform bill.
The 24-year-old UF health education and 
behavior doctoral student helps teach ﬁ  ve sec-
tions of a UF medical terminology course on-
line. Shipway said she fears the proposed tax reform bill would add about $30,000 to her cur-rent income, taking her from a tax bracket of about $20,000 to about $50,000.
The proposed reform was passed by the 
House of Representatives on Nov. 16 and is moving to the Senate, according to The New York Times. It will require graduate teaching 
assistants to pay taxes on the value of the tu-ition waivers they receive as a subsidy for their 
work, said Paul Duncan, the senior associate 
dean for the UF Graduate School.
“I’ve been in America for eight years,” Ship-
way said. “I have a life here, and if I can no lon-
ger afford to go to school, I will be going back to England and leaving my life here.”
Duncan said the proposed tax bill will jeop-
ardize about 4,000 graduate teaching assistants at UF. The bill will make it look like graduate teaching assistants have a higher income than 
they do, he said, which means they have to pay 
more in taxes.
“This would be a disaster for graduate stu-
dents,” Duncan said. “Along with other re-search institutions, the university is actively ‘He was like a magnet’: a 
UF professor honoredGraduate teaching assistants concerned about tax reform
SEE PROFESSOR,  PAGE 4 SEE GRADUATE,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 fi-
nancial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 FAFSA is now available. UF’s 
on-time deadline to receive 
the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA from the federal pro-cessor is Dec. 15. Apply well before the deadline to ensure 
the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, 
first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be consid-ered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-sistance with completing your 
FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or 
contact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology and Nematology building, Room 1031. Meetings are free and open to the public. For more 
information, visit talkingga-
tors.toastmastersclubs.org.
Kid-free camp for grown-ups
The Florida Museum of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull Road, is hosting 
an adults-only evening camp 
Wednesday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Activities include access to the museum’s permanent exhibits, arts and crafts and 
hands-on science activities. 
The camp is $25 for the gen-eral public and $20 for muse-um members. Pre-registration 
is required, and participants 
must be 18 years or older. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/adult-camp or call 352-273-
2061.
Stand-up comedy at Rockeys 
Dueling Piano Bar Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, 
located at 112 S. Main St., hosts live stand-up com-edy and drink specials every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. A local come-dian will start the show, and open mike will be available af-
ter the main show. The price 
is $5 per person.
Agbedidi: A Fusion of 
Traditional African and 
Contemporary Dance
Agbedidi: A Fusion of Traditional African and Contemporary Dance will 
once again grace the Constans 
Theatre stage. The concert will be held Friday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $13 for stu-dents, $15 for UF faculty and 
staff, $15 for seniors and $18 
for the general public. The concert, under the direction of Mohamed DaCosta and 
Trent Williams Jr., presents 
traditional West African dance and contemporary dance by African-American choreogra-phers. The show celebrates di-
versity of cultures and dance 
forms by bringing together UF faculty and world-renowned guest artists and musicians. 
Little Run on the Prairie 5K
The Alachua County 4-H Club is hosting its annual Little Run 
on the Prairie 5K on Saturday 
beginning at 8:30 a.m. It is a trail run through the historic Paynes Prairie Preserve State 
Park. The event benefits 4-H 
Club summer camp schol-arships for special interest, residential and county day camps. To learn more about 
the race, visit active.com, the 
club’s Facebook page or con-tact Amanda Morgan at amor-gan133@ufl.edu or 352-955-
2402.
Craft Festival
The O’Connell Center is host-
ing its annual Craft Festival 
on Saturday and Sunday from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Craft Festival showcases crafts au-thentically made by talented 
artisans and crafters. The 
Craft Festival provides an op-portunity to shop for unique merchandise and gifts and features hundreds of vendors. 
Tickets can be purchased in 
advance at a reduced rate of $4 for the general public and $2 for students at the University 
Box Office at Gate 1 of the O’Connell Center, located at 
250 Gale Lemerand Drive. Tickets cost $5 at the door for the general public and $3 
for students. The box office is 
open Tuesday to Friday from noon to 5:30 p.m. 
Swing Dance Club Winter 
FormalThe Florida Swing Dance Club is hosting its Winter formal on Saturday. Individuals of 
all dance levels can attend. 
Lessons start at 8 p.m. with a beginner lesson being pro-vided, so you can join the social dance after. Entrance 
into the event will cost $5. 
The dance will be held at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. For more information about 
the event, visit facebook.com/
FloridaSwingDancingClub.
Tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the 
UF Argentine Tango Club for 
free lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned dancer, everyone 
is welcome. No experience, 
partner or special shoes are required. Just bring a thick pair of socks. Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday 
at 6:15 p.m., followed by ad-
vanced-level lessons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. 
Find the UF Argentine Tango 
Club on Facebook for more details.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
HIGH  74° LOW  53°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 38
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482
Locals don’t have Winter Break
DEADLINE: Wed, Nov. 29
RUNDATE: Wed, Dec. 6
Our Local Living Edition is the best place to position your advertisements for the  local market. This paper prints on the last day of the semester, when students are getting ready to leave town, and remains in racks throughout the break. The locals aren’t going anywhere, so maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the fall semester. Map-spotting is included! Save 5% when you pay with cash or check.Worried your business might take  
a break with the students?
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For seven weeks in a hospital 
room, unsure of if he’d get a new 
heart, Lowell Thomas passed the time by memorizing every lyric to “Get’cha Head in the Game” from 
“High School Musical.” 
In the pediatric cardiology ward 
at UF Health Shands Hospital, 
11-year-old Lowell committed the Disney TV musical to memory in the hopes one day he would be able to sing, dance and play basketball — his favorite sport — just like Zac Efron and Corbin Bleu’s characters. 
During the 13 weeks Lowell was at 
Shands, he and his mother, Malika, both natives of St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, weren’t sure if he’d be able to sing, dance or play again. 
Lowell’s heart was failing him. 
He was gaining more weight be-cause of it. His asthma, which he’s had since he was 3 years old, took a 
severe turn. 
“I described it like a bear,” Ma-
lika said of her son’s breathing. 
The muscle became abnormally 
thick and stopped pumping sufﬁ  -
cient amounts of blood to the body, a heart disease known as hypertro-phic cardiomyopathy. He needed a new heart or else he would face a 
heart attack and likely die soon after.
“I was surprised, it was a big 
surprise,” Malika said. “I knew it 
could have been his lungs. OK, then you tell me he needs a transplant. I thought, ‘A whole new heart? ... a whole new heart?’”
What started as a two-week July 
vacation to Jacksonville turned into 
a monthslong period of uncertainty.  
Malika and Lowell found resolve Nov. 9, when Lowell was discharged from Shands with a brand new heart beating strong in his chest.  
“When you really think about it, 
what somebody has to go through, what you have to go through, you always have to remain positive,” she said.  
Lowell is one of every about 100 
U.S. children at risk of heart disease, said Dr. Dipankar Gupta, a Shands critical care doctor and pediatric car-diologist who worked with Lowell almost every day. 
It was July 31 when cardiologists 
at Wolfson Children’s Hospital in Jacksonville diagnosed Lowell with his fatal heart condition. 
One week later, Lowell and his 
mom left Malika’s aunt, Bridgette Laurent, whom they were visiting while on vacation, for Shands, the only hospital in North Central Flor-ida with a pediatric cardiology team 
and resources necessary for a heart 
transplant. 
Shands doctors conﬁ  rmed Aug. 
31 that Lowell needed heart trans-plant surgery.  
For more than seven weeks, he 
and Malika waited, unsure of when he would be paired with a donor heart. 
Patients and donors have to 
match as close as possible in age and weight and match exactly in blood type for a successful transplant sur-gery, which is why wait times can be so long and hard to predict, said Dr. 
Frederick Fricker, a Shands pediatric 
cardiologist who worked with Low-ell almost every day. 
“There’s nothing typical about 
it,” Dr. Fricker said. “We have pa-tients even now that are waiting months. I wish there was something we could do, it doesn’t work that way. It is very difﬁ  cult on families, it’s very tough for them.” 
People can register to be organ 
donors via their driver’s license and 
Department of Motor Vehicles infor-
mation. 
But in cases like Lowell’s, with 
preteens and young children in need of transplants, the donors them-selves are often recently deceased children whose families gave con-sent for donation, Gupta said.
Donors are often patients of mo-
tor vehicle accidents or various fa-tal conditions who ultimately could only function in a vegetative state, at which point the family decides if they will give consent to donate or-gans. 
In the past two years, Shands pe-
diatric cardiologists have facilitated 
between 22 and 25 heart transplant 
surgeries, Gupta said.
Amid the constant risk for pa-
tients and grief of former donors and their families, Gupta said it’s the strength of his young patients and their families that keeps him going as a pediatrician. 
“It’s just amazing to see how well 
they are after they get the organ and how well they do getting transplant-ed,” he said. “That just keeps us go-ing.” 
With new hearts pumping blood 
through their veins, Dr. Fricker said patients often feel as good as new af-ter surgery and about six months. All patients have between an 85 to 90 
percent survival rate ﬁ  ve years out 
from their surgery and about 75 per-cent 10 years out. 
“We’ve had transplantations 
climb mountains, we’ve had them participate in triathlons, some of our transplant women have had babies,” he said. “There’s absolutely no re-strictions.” 
Lowell stayed strong during 
his months in intensive care at the 
Shands Congenital Heart Center.
He bonded with his doctors. The 
nurses and volunteers brought him a 
PlayStation 3 he’d play with a wide grin across his face. The hospital staff organized mini dance-offs in which Lowell would showcase his signature moves to MC Hammer’s “U Can’t Touch This.” 
For his 11th birthday on Oct. 30, they gave him Spider-Man and su-perhero balloons and paraphernalia to decorate his hospital room. 
“When I ﬁ  rst came there I was 
kind of scared and mad,” Lowell said. “But after a while I was getting along with them. The doctors are all 
good men, and I loved the nurses 
who helped me.” 
Being away from home for more 
than four months has taken its toll, Malika said. They miss their family and their house, from which you can hear the ocean winds come into town from the beaches less than a 
10-minute drive away. 
For nearly every weekend as long 
as she can remember, Malika would 
take Lowell to play in the white sand and turquoise water. 
Malika said she thanks Gainesville 
for the home away from home it has been and for everyone at Shands who treated them gracefully and save Lowell’s life. While she hasn’t met the family who gave her son the 
heart now beating in his chest, she 
said she’ll never forget them.
“We will be forever grateful to 
the family because they gave him a second chance of life, to have as much normal as a life for an 11-year-old.” she said. “We do grieve with the family, we pray for them every 
day.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
Vacation ends in new heart at Shands for 11-year-old boy 
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Lowell Thomas and his mother, Malika, celebrate Lowell’s 11th 
birthday Oct. 30 in the Congenital Heart Center at UF Health Shands Hospital. Lowell, a native of St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, was diagnosed with a fatal heart condition in August while he and Mallika were on vacation in Jacksonville. 
•   •   ••   •   •4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A bill mandating Student Government social me-
dia accounts to make a social media post announcing 
elections passed through the SG Judiciary Committee on Sunday.
Sen. Michael Hoffman (Inspire, Hume) authored 
the bill, called the Voter Information Act, to help boost student turnout in SG elections, he said. Sena-tors will vote on the bill Tuesday and Dec. 5. 
Hoffman’s initial copy of the bill, drafted with the 
help of other Inspire Party senators and outside stu-dents, mandated two posts on social media accounts before the election and emails sent out through UF’s student Listserv.
Members of the Judiciary Committee asked Hoff-
man about using UF’s Listserv. Only UF administra-tors have access to it, and SG would need permission to use it. Different members voiced their concern about what would happen if administration denied them.
To resolve the issue, Hoffman drafted a new ver-
sion of the bill at the meeting, which only mentioned social media posts instead of the emails.
“I disagree with the committee’s view on the 
original bill, but I’m really happy that we ultimately came to a consensus on how to increase voter par-ticipation in our student democracy,” Hoffman said.
Emily Dempsey (Impact, District A), the Judiciary 
Committee chairwoman, said the committee had concerns with the initial bill because they wanted to make sure UF’s administration would definitely pro-vide the Listserv before establishing it as a rule.
“We wanted to make sure there was some ground-
work before putting something in a bill, because that is law and is very concrete and definite,” she said.
She said she was happy the bill was passed 
through the committee to mandate social media 
posts.
“It’s definitely important to have that information 
accessible to students, and I think that is a good av-
enue to take,” she said.
Dempsey said the bill will be read twice, once at 
each of Fall’s remaining Student Senate meetings, and then senators will vote to pass it or not.
Hoffman said he hopes the bill passes so more 
students can learn about the elections. He said there 
currently isn’t a policy in place to inform students, 
which motivated his bill.
“I think anything would be an improvement, and 
just putting this in place, assuming the senate passes the bill, I think we will see a boost in turnout,” he said.Bill for SG voter awareness to be 
heard by Senate on Tuesday
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested for 
breaking into a car and stealing three 
guns after the car owner found the man’s cellphone in his car, Gainesville Police said. 
Andrew Jay Mc-
Nally, 30, was seen by witnesses who were leaving Satur-
day’s UF football game at about 3:11 p.m. McNally was wrapping rifles in a jacket near Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium and 
was reported to police, according to an 
arrest report.
Responding officers found McNally 
in the middle of the road on Northwest 20th Street near a cooler that contained a Glock pistol and had two hunting ri-fles on top of it, according to the report.
A man at the scene said his car had 
been broken into and his hunting rifles were missing.
He identified the three guns as his 
and estimated the value of the weapons 
as $2,600, according to the report. He 
also gave police a black cellphone he said he found in the backseat of his car.
One witness saw McNally in the car, 
and another told police he was the resi-dent of the home the car was parked at and said McNally came onto his property and told him he parked there, according to the report. The resident 
said the car that was broken into was 
parked there for the game.
McNally told police he didn’t break 
into the car or steal the guns. He gave police his phone number, which matched the number of the cell phone left in the car.
McNally, who was convicted of a 
felony for dealing in stolen property in 
2010, was arrested on charges of bur-
glary, grand theft and possessing a fire-arm as a convicted felon. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $175,000 bond. GPD: Man steals guns 
from car, leaves his phone
Rose began his decadeslong career as a UF 
professor when his back issues caused him to 
retire from dance, Tuttle said.
Lucinda Lavelli, the dean for the UF College 
of the Arts, said a scholarship, the Ric Rose Fund for Dance, was started in his name after Rose’s retirement. 
The UF College of the Arts and School of 
Theatre and Dance will hold a celebration to honor Rose’s life Jan. 20 she said.
“We all feel a great sense of loss because Ric 
was such a warm human being,” Lavelli said.
At UF, Rose mentored students like Staci 
Vernal, a UF alumna who took a ballet class with Rose in 1999.
“He cared so much, and you knew it,” the 
39-year-old said. “He let you know how impor-tant you were and how much he appreciated you.”
Rose was a dancer ahead of his time, Vernal 
said. Her favorite dance to perform with him was “The Ring Cycle,” where he created a dif-ferent world on stage with large hoops repre-senting a portal.
“It reminded me of how different he was — 
how willing he was to take an idea and just roll with it,” she said.
As a freshman searching for a place to be-
long, Rose made Lynn Forney feel welcomed, she said. He was a major reason she joined UF’s dance program in 1998.
“He always helped you get better, but in 
a really supportive way and a very encourag-
ing way that never made you feel less,” the 
40-year-old dancer said.
Even today, Forney thinks about the hug 
Rose gave her when she won the most out-
standing senior award in 2001. It felt good to 
know he was proud of her, she said.
Forney said she aspires to make other peo-
ple feel the way Rose made her feel, and she keeps his energy with her every time she’s on 
stage.
“You never knew if he had a bad day,” she 
said. “He just really loved life and took advan-
tage of it.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgRichard Rose was a dance 
professor at UF for 35 years trying to make known its understanding that 
this is a very bad policy. It’ll have a very bad impact on our graduate programs.”
A half-time graduate teaching assistant is 
currently given nine credit hours in tuition waivers for Spring and Fall semesters and six credit hours for the Summer, Duncan said. The current value of these waivers at 
UF is about $12,000 for the academic year 
and about $16,000 for the full calendar year, he said.
“The proposed tax bill would treat the dollar value of the tuition waiver as if it was income, when it clearly is not income,” Dun-can said. “The dollar value of the waiver cannot be spent on other things, so treating it as income seems nonsensical.”
Duncan said if the bill goes through it 
could cause a reduction in the number and quality of graduate students.
“I think students would consider this as 
part of their decision as to whether or not to go to graduate school,” Duncan said.
Mary Roca, a co-president of the UF Grad-
uate Assistants United union, is urging stu-dents to write letters to their representatives opposing the bill.Earlier this month, GAU negotiated an in-
crease in minimum stipends to $16,000 for nine-month employees and $21,333.33 for year-round employees, according to Alliga-tor archives.
However, Roca, a UF English doctoral stu-
dent, said she doesn’t believe the raise will do much if the proposed tax reform passes.
“We fought really hard for those stipend 
increases, but ultimately if they’re seeing their taxable income go up by thousands of dollars, I don’t think it’s going to be enough to balance things out,” the 27-year-old said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF dance professor Richard Rose and his former dance student, Lynn Forney, pose for 
a photo in the 2000-2001 school year, when she was still a UF student. The 40-year-old said one of her proudest moments was when Rose hugged her after she won the most outstanding senior award in the UF School of Theatre and Dance.
About 4,000 graduate teaching assistants could be affected
• The tax reform bill would count tuition waivers received for graduate assistant work as income.
•   The value of UF tuition waivers are about $12,000 
for the academic year and about $16,000 for the full calendar year.
• On Nov. 16, the proposed tax reform bill was 
passed by the House of Representatives. It is scheduled to move to the Senate soon.
• About 4,000 UF graduate teaching assistants 
could be affected.
•  The senior associate dean for the UF Graduate 
School said the proposed plan is a disaster for graduate students.McNally
GRADUATE,  from pg. 1
PROFESSOR,  from pg. 1
•   •   •MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Red colors keep consumer attention 
longer
The color red keeps consumers focused 
on package labels, a new UF study sug-
gests.
Zhifeng Gao, a UF professor of food 
and resource economics who led the study, said he wanted to know if color helps draw consumers’ attention to infor-mation on food labels.
Gao got the idea for the study when 
one of his former students tried to study how emotion affects consumer choice. He realized few had researched how food-label color affected consumer food choice. 
Gao said the study, conducted in 2015, 
used labels on strawberry packages to draw conclusions.
For the study, researchers compared 
red labels with blue labels. The research team conducted an online survey of about 340 respondents. They showed partici-pants two types of labels for packages of strawberries. Each label had the same in-formation in black text, but one label had a red background and the other had a blue background.
Gao said people looked at the red labels 
longer before making a decision. He said red makes people more vigilant, and blue makes people feel more relaxed. 
He said food marketers should consider 
background color and font color when try-
ing to sell their packages, and consumers 
should avoid their tricks.
“For newer generations, the important 
thing, like that for the general consum-
er, is that when making choice of food, 
they should try to avoid the impact of the 
marketing tricks, such as color or a fancy package on their choice,” he said. 
- Rosanne Ramraj
To confront climate change, UF 
researcher develops heat-tolerant 
corn
UF researchers won a national award 
for engineered heat-tolerant corn.
Curt Hannah, a molecular geneticist at 
the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences, said  the corn was developed us-
ing biochemical methods.
He said corn is sensitive to high tem-
peratures and to enhance the plant, they 
identiﬁ  ed the types of corn that are most 
sensitive to heat.
He said the crops were then engineered 
to make their products more heat stable. 
Engineered versions of the genes were 
introduced to the corn plant to make it more heat tolerant, he said, which means it won’t die as rapidly.
“The techniques we use are identical to 
those used to produce (genetically modi-ﬁ  ed organism) foods,” he said.
Increases in temperature caused by 
man-made climate change is why corn needs to be heat tolerant, Hannah said.
He said the engineered genes they syn-
thesized will be used for improved corn productivity globally, but it is not avail-able commercially yet.
The award for the crop innovation, the 
National Institute of Food and Agriculture 
2017 Partnership Award in Multistate Ef-
forts, was awarded in October, which in-cludes a plaque for the team.
“The purpose of the research was to 
enhance corn yields worldwide,” he said. 
“UF and the Gainesville community will 
beneﬁ  t from the research being done here.”
- Rosanne Ramraj
Hops crop aﬀ  ected by small pest
Florida growers may face problems in 
the future with the introduction of nema-
todes, or microscopic worms, into the soil.
UF researchers are studying the effects 
of the root-knot nematodes on crops like hops. Researchers have already found 
four to ﬁ  ve major species that will in-fect and cause signiﬁ  cant diseases to the plants, said Donald Dickson, a UF nema-tology professor, in an email.
Dickson said it is too early to decide 
which control methods will be used to manage the nematodes, but researchers expect the use of chemicals like nemati-cides, used before and after planting, will help prevent spreading.
Dickson said the root-knots are difﬁ  cult 
to manage but are similar to other pests, 
which makes treating them as simple as 
selecting the right pesticide.
Johan Desaeger, a UF professor of nem-
atology, wrote in an email the nematodes 
could affect the hops crop, which is used 
to produce beer, in particular. He said 
their research works to prevent a mass 
outbreak of the nematodes, which may af-fect the beer industry as a whole.
He said nematodes are drawn to hops 
because the plant is tasty to them, and 
they can easily access the root system.
Desaeger said hops is a ﬂ  edgling indus-
try in Florida. Once commercial produc-
tion becomes a reality, nematode effects 
will need to be closely monitored, Desae-
ger said.
- Ashley Mirtyl
HIS WORK HAS BEEN 
DOWNLOADED MORE 
THAN 8,000 TIMES.
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gerrit Hoogenboom, a UF professor of 
agricultural and biological engineering, 
won an award for his decadeslong work in soil science. Hoogenboom won an award in late 
October from the Soil Science Society of America. He was awarded the L.R. Ahuja Ag Systems Modeling Award for his work in crop modeling and decision support sys-tems, he wrote in an email. 
The models he creates are used to es-
timate crop yield, plan irrigation systems and project regional water use, he said. 
He said the latest version of his re-
search has been downloaded more than 8,000 times. Hoogenboom also mentors students and has seen more than 60 visit-ing scientists around the world over the past 15 years. 
“It is a great honor to receive this award 
and to be recognized as one of the top sci-entists in the field of computer model ap-plications in agriculture,” he said. 
The award came with a certificate, a 
complimentary ticket to the award cer-emony in Tampa and $2,000.
“The award is a great inspiration of the 
students, post-docs, and other visiting sci-entists in my group,” Hoogenboom said. 
Kenneth Boote, a colleague of Hoogen-
boom’s and a professor in the UF agrono-my department, has worked with Hoogen-boom for the past 25 years, he said. Boote nominated Hoogenboom for the award.
“Dr. Hoogenboom is highly deserving 
of this award because of his role in de-veloping crop modeling software and es-pecially teaching scientists and students throughout the world,” he said.
UF professor wins national award for soil researchThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Column
In this political climate, it can be tempting 
to surround yourself with like-minded folks and call it a day — online and ofﬂ  ine. On 
our social media, it would be easy (and, 
let’s face it, understandable) to unfol-
low every user who posted a status update or wrote a tweet decrying a politician you admire 
or denouncing a policy you believe would help 
people. You could even replace the lost proﬁ  les with more accounts of people who agree with and amplify your views. But is this the right thing to do?
Well, as with many answers to complicated questions, 
there are certainly some shades of gray. If we unfollow all of the users on the other side of the political spectrum, several problems arise. For one, in some cases, we require 
the full context of the national — and sometimes global 
— political spectrum to fully understand our own beliefs. Without this, we lose out on what could be valuable infor-mation on the topics at play.
Think of your basic let’s-spend-more-on-education vs. 
let’s-spend-more-on-defense views. Each left on their own, you may ﬁ  nd yourself agreeing with, disagreeing with or feeling unsure of either or each of the subjects. You might say, “How about we do both?” or “Well, are we spend-
ing enough on either of them now?” Fundamental issues 
of economics, as an example, may require background knowledge and debate in order for us to fully grasp the topics at hand and come to our own informed decisions, even if we disagree with our interlocutors.
I argue we need these tests of our knowledge and 
stances on at least a somewhat consistent basis. No, we don’t need our friends and relatives intellectually sparring with us on a daily basis to prove we truly believe what we 
say we do. However, each of us should be able to defend 
our opinions within reason. If you can’t articulate why you’re voting a certain way, why are you doing it at all?That being said, I don’t believe we have a 
moral obligation to give each belief or opinion equal thought. In current times, politics have 
become personal. For some people, private lives 
and fundamental rights enter the foray with each election. 
I once saw a comic on the internet that put it 
this way, with my paraphrase: Opinions are for things like, “I don’t like black coffee,” not for things like, “I don’t like black people.” When we argue that we should give all opinions equal 
consideration — and then count prejudiced sentiments as 
“just another perspective” — we lose sight of our moral 
non-negotiables. In the name of fairness, we end up de-bating neo-Nazis and white supremacists when what we should be doing is protesting, ignoring or correcting them. 
You should know who the bigots are in this country. 
They are people who don’t respect the full personhood and dignity of fellow human beings. However, we need not explore the opinion of every racist, homophobe, sex-ist, bigot and transphobic person in between. If one of 
them is open to dialogue, we can try to explain to them the 
errors in their ways. We can try to understand their faulty cognitive processes in order to redirect them. But bigots are fundamentally different than the average person who 
disagrees with you on real issues, with real opinions and 
facts to back up those opinions.
Sexists, racists, homophobes, transphobic people — 
they don’t use facts to support their views. If they tell you their prejudiced judgments are supported by facts, they 
are lying. You may try to change that, but you do not 
owe it to anyone or to any interest in fairness to see some moral equivalency between a standard political view and outright bigotry.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Listen to those you disagree with, but not all of themEditorial
The challenge in 
explaining injustice
The other day, a friend of the Alligator opinions editor 
asked her why she wants to ﬁ  ght injustice. Being hon-est, Abby said herself she didn’t know how to answer the question with anything other than the elementary and un-impressive response: “because it’s wrong.” Now to use 
one of those activist buzzwords, we at the Alligator are going to “unpack” this question. 
Before diving in, it’s important to note the question was purely 
inquisitive. This person recognizes societal injustices are wrong, but they wanted to task our opinions editor with the explanation. We can talk incessantly about our grievances with injustice and desires to improve the world through equality. We should have the answer as to why, right? But it’s hard to clearly explain the driving force behind our desires to end injustice or how to do it.
To be entirely honest with you, we at the Alligator don’t know 
how to explain injustice — nor do we know what it means to solve it. That, right there, is exactly what is holding all of us back.
It seems our society hasn’t reached a desirable level of equal-
ity because no one can really explain what a society free of injus-tice looks like. Or, for that matter, what injustice even is.
It’s basic knowledge that injustice arises when people are 
given an unfair advantage or when people are shorted due to circumstances they can’t control. But this interpretation doesn’t 
provide a clear call to action or an apparent end goal. At what 
point have we become a society free of injustice?
When you look up the deﬁ  nition of injustice on dictionary.
com, you’ll see it means “the quality or fact of being unjust” or, more simply, “inequity.” When you look up the meaning of in-equity, you’ll ﬁ  nd it can be deﬁ  ned either as a “lack of equity” or “unfairness.” We’ll spare you attempts to deﬁ  ne the word unfair-ness and the slew of other ambiguous terms that follow. 
The search for a concrete deﬁ  nition of injustice was deﬁ  cient 
in the type of substantial answer we were looking for. It did help to understand the fundamental challenges of ﬁ  ghting injustice. 
If injustice is nothing more than a lack of justice and fairness, 
then the ﬁ  rst step toward eradicating injustice is to decide what it means to be just. But again, the deﬁ  nition of what it means to be just is similarly cryptic to the deﬁ  nitions of inequality and injustice.
The most logical approach is for the world to set the terms of a 
just society and then decide if it’s capable of existing. This raises 
another question: Who decides the terms of a just society?
It’s our belief for a society to ever be considered fair or just, 
the people need to decide together what fair means. In a society 
as large as the U.S., this poses yet another challenge. Even if every American were to vote on what they feel a just society consists of, there will be people who lose. There will be people whose ideas will not prevail, and they will continue to ﬁ  ght and continue to see the world as an unjust place. The truth is, no two people are going to have the same idea about what a just society 
is. Even if they did, laws don’t solve injustice. People do.
The only true way we can ﬁ  ght injustice is on an individual 
level. The problem with efforts to eradicate injustice right now is 
we are working on too large a scale. It is unreasonable and too idealistic to believe every person in the world, or even in a com-munity, can agree on what it means to have a just society.
Thus, each of us need to hold ourselves accountable to create 
and promote the justice we want to see. This could mean stand-ing up for someone falling victim to prejudice. This could simply 
mean recognizing your own privilege and using your advantages 
to help those less fortunate. In actuality, you have the power to stop injustices around you, and that is the only way they are go-ing to be solved.
 Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Roy Moore. Al Franken. 
John Conyers. Bill Clin-ton. Harvey Weinstein. 
Bill O’Reilly. The list goes 
on. The past year has 
brought an onslaught of sexual harassment and assault allega-
tions from Hollywood and Wash-
ington, D.C. It’s sad and telling that this is at least the second time this semester I’ve written about this topic, but it’s not going away 
anytime soon. 
The “Access Hollywood” tapes featuring 
President Donald Trump and other allega-
tions of misconduct gave the Democratic 
Party an opportunity to condemn the mis-
treatment of women. Similarly, the allega-tions against Moore are disgraceful. Instead of relishing this moment as giving them am-munition to attack the Republican Party in 
the upcoming elections, Democrats should 
consider the history of their own party and how they’ll deal with allegations of sexual harassment within their own ranks. 
It’s dangerous to think Democrats are 
immune to sexual misconduct just because they support paid family leave, equal pay for women and pro-abortion policies. They still have to look inward and acknowledge 
their past, which includes Bill Clinton, for-
mer congressman  Anthony Weiner and, more recently, Rep. Conyers. Although  Hillary Clinton likes to claim her husband 
was punished by going through impeach-
ment proceedings and giving up his legal license, this amounts to a simple slap on the wrist. Bill Clinton still had a career af-terward — even if he was “dead broke” (to 
quote Hillary Clinton) from legal expenses 
— while Monica Lewinsky’s name is forev-er entrenched in scandal. Democrats cannot call for Moore to resign while maintaining 
Bill Clinton was appropriately punished. 
With the latest sexual harassment and 
assault allegations, Democrats must con-
front their own history. Rape culture is pervasive, and Democrats are not exempt. 
Democrats must walk the walk rather than 
just pretend to be inclusive and open to women. Stop offering platitudes to women, and start thinking about how the Democratic Party 
treats them.  
It’s not just about those who 
committed the harassment or as-
sault. There were others who 
were complicit, including Joe 
Biden. He was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee when Clarence Thomas was nominated 
to the U.S. Supreme Court and made Anita 
Hill face unfair questioning. Hill was not 
Thomas’s only accuser — there were others who were not called upon to testify.
Perhaps this culture of harassment of 
women is a function of having a govern-ment full of baby boomers, as David Von Drehle suggested in an article from The Washington Post. Some of the people who are being seriously considered as presiden-
tial candidates will be more than 70 years 
old and some even close to 80 during the next election. In any other industry, people this old would have retired, yet in govern-
ment they stick around, meaning the norms 
of a different era are accepted. 
Although some may say these events 
happened a long time ago or the allegations are not so bad, are we really so sorely lack-
ing in leadership that we have to allow peo-
ple like this to govern? There are plenty of people who have not harassed or assaulted anyone who would be worthy of govern-
ment ofﬁ  ce. Supporting policies that are 
good for women does not give you a right to grope them. Instead of justifying Franken’s presence with what he’s done for women, it’s time for the Democratic Party to call for 
him to resign. It may be true many seats 
in Congress will be vacant if all those who have harassed or assaulted women are forced to resign, but so be it. Let’s ﬁ  ll those 
seats with people — from both sides of the 
aisle — who deserve to be there. 
Nicole Dan is UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.A couple of days ago, a 
video of Malia Obama blowing smoke rings 
went viral. The inter-
net ﬂ  ipped out. Every-
one either sang her praises or was deeply offended. “Go, Ma-
lia! I’m glad you’re having fun 
in college and doing your own thing! Get it, girl!” Or, “How dare she! What a delinquent. As a daughter of a former pres-
ident, she should not be behaving in this 
manner.” There was a third response, which was something along the lines of, “Who cares?” This whole incident 
brought to mind something I ﬁ  nd very 
important. It is also something frequent-ly underemphasized, particularly in this day and age. This, dear reader, is the art of minding your own business.
With society’s obsession with social 
media, very little of our lives are com-pletely private. Everyone knows who we hang out with, what we’re studying, 
what we do for fun and often, where we 
are. Obviously, to an extent, we choose who we share these things with. We don’t share our phone’s location with everyone we’ve ever met. We don’t post 
play-by-play updates of our entire lives 
on Facebook. We don’t check in every-where we go. Some people do, but over time, I think most users have found a 
happy medium between being complete-
ly incognito and telling everyone exactly what they’re doing whenever they do anything at all.
Social media is wonderful for a lot 
of reasons. I have family members rais-ing children states or even oceans away from me, and it’s great to be able to watch them grow up. I have friends who 
have moved across the country to go to 
college or start their careers, and I love seeing their photos and updates. On the other hand, social media can be toxic. It feeds into a culture of comparison in 
which many people are stuck in a cycle 
of looking at themselves as they relate to others. It can cause people to feel inferior and can be par-ticularly dangerous for users in 
the younger generations who 
may not have a ﬁ  rm grasp on who they are or who they want to be. Social media and the 
internet has slowly (or not so 
slowly) chipped away at pri-vacy.
This is not as big of a deal 
for us “normal people” as our 
followers likely mainly consist of people we actually know. However, for people who are famous for one reason or anoth-er, they have a lot to worry about in this 
department. Paparazzi are no longer the 
only concern. Anyone can take a photo or video and post it anywhere, with or without their knowledge. If you’re a rap-per, having a video online of you blow-
ing O’s is really not a big deal. However, 
if your dad used to be the president of the U.S., it may be a more notable point of discussion. Why? I can understand 
people getting frustrated if evidence 
came out the current president supports people accused of sexual assault (just a hypothetical, obviously), but why does it matter if a college girl blew smoke 
rings? Why does what anyone does actu-
ally matter if they’re not hurting anyone, threatening to hurt anyone or support-ing hurting anyone? Quite frankly, what 
a college girl does with her free time is 
no one’s business but her own. Minding your own business is, as I mentioned earlier, an art. It can be hard to do some-times. I know Malia Obama’s behavior 
is truly fascinating and not at all like the 
behavior of every young woman of her age but try not to worry about it. We all have plenty of things to worry about 
concerning just ourselves. Let’s try to fo-
cus on that and let Malia worry about herself.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism 
and psychology junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.It’s dangerous to think Democrats 
are immune to sexual misconduct Leave Malia alone, we have our 
own problems to worry aboutColumn Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Brittany Webber, a 25-year-old UF architecture junior, browses through the 
Camerica Creations booth at Depot Park on Sunday afternoon. She purchased a pair of earrings and a leather bracelet. The business was started more than a year ago, and all the jewelry is handmade.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
George T ortorelli, 60, plays the flute while promoting his own business coined Medicine Wind Music, which sells bamboo flutes. He grows the organic bamboo himself and has been playing the flute for 45 years.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Pape Diop, 52, from New York, works at his clothing and jewelry booth while people pass by and browse during GreenMan Fest. When asked about how his small business came to be, he said he “couldn’t get a good paying job, ” but he enjoys having his freedom.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sarah Whitemire, a visionary artist from Alachua “of immortal age, ” works on an art piece using her hands and brushes while stationed at Depot Park. Every Friday, she livestreams herself via Facebook to showcase the progress of her art piece and has been painting her whole life.
Gainesville gets artsy in Depot Park with GreenMan Fest
On Saturday and Sunday in Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave., hundreds of people visited GreenMan 
Fest, a craft fair that promotes locally made arts and crafts. All sorts of artists from Alachua County came to showcase their art and sell their creations. The event also hosted an expo featuring electric and hybrid vehicles.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Welcome BackADVERTISE WITH THE ALLIGATOR
352-376-4482  advertising@alligator.orgDEADLINE 12/13/2017  
RUN DATE 1/8/2018Contact Your  
Sales Rep T odayEDITION SPRING 2018By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Inside Big Mill’s Cheesesteaks’ four 
walls, life is simple: The signature chees-
esteak sandwiches are $8.25, Italian or Polish sausages are $6.75 and each chair is dedicated to a Major League Baseball 
team. 
On the restaurant’s exterior, however, 
a code violation of more than 12 red, 
white and blue buntings has restaurant 
owner Keith Miller and city ofﬁ  cials in a 
tense back-and-forth. After being open for 
nearly two months, Miller had to remove 
the buntings Nov. 15 that had adorned the restaurant’s front entrance since its grand opening Sept. 18. 
A City of Gainesville code enforcer told 
Miller via phone Nov. 14 the patriotic-themed decorations were against code and had to be removed immediately or else the restaurant, located at 2111 NW 
13th St., would incur a citation and ﬁ  ne.
“I feel I should be able to decorate my 
building without getting any interven-
tion,” Miller said. “If it’s tasteful and not obnoxious and it’s not interrupting trafﬁ  c, I just don’t understand why it would be illegal.” 
In the days leading up to the grand 
opening, Miller said he worked with the 
city’s Planning and Development Services 
department and obtained permits that allowed for the buntings and the restau-rant’s interior as well. 
Code enforcement ofﬁ  cials argue bun-
tings on the exterior of any building fall under the same category as pennants, which are banned within the city limits, along with rooftop signs and electronic 
signs, according to the city’s Code of Ordi-
nances, Section 30-317. 
City spokesperson Chip Skinner said 
the buntings’ American-style red, white and blue colors or their patriotic theme are unrelated to the prohibition. 
“What he had out there was a viola-
tion of city sign ordinance,” Skinner said. “It had nothing to do with any coloration or design of it. It was just the actual items themselves that were the issue.”
On Nov. 17, Miller received an email 
from city code enforcers requesting to meet in person and resolve how Miller can decorate his restaurant’s exterior as he sees ﬁ  t while keeping up to code. 
After 15 years of selling his signature 
cheesesteak sandwiches at Midtown dur-ing home games, Miller said he’s deter-mined to meet with the city and ﬁ  gure out a solution, especially now that he has been living the dream with his own loca-tion.
He said if he feels city code enforcers 
fail to plainly explain why his decorations were illegal and are uncooperative, he plans to go before the City Commission. He hopes the city will work with him so he can put the buntings back up.
“I’m a small business trying to do the 
right thing,” he said. “I want my frustra-tions heard by the city.”
 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orBig Mill’s, city dispute building code
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Red, white and blue buntings decorate Big Mill’s Cheesesteaks, located at 
2111 NW 13th St., before they were removed by owner Keith Miller on Wednesday. City ofﬁ  cials told Miller his buntings were against code.
SHE DIDN’T GIVE HER INFORMATION 
TO THE OTHER DRIVER.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua woman was arrested for leaving 
the scene of an accident and driving drunk Satur-
day, Florida Highway Patrol said.
Tracy Hollingsworth Ste-
phens, 50, was in a two-car crash in the parking lot of T.J. Maxx & 
HomeGoods, located at 1009 NW 
76th Blvd., at about 5:12 p.m. 
and didn’t give her information to the other driver before she left 
the scene of the accident, accord-
ing to an arrest report.
After Stephens drove away, a patrolman found 
her car stopped in the middle of a westbound lane of County Road 232 and Stephens outside of the 
car urinating, according to the report. The patrol-
man noticed a smell of alcohol on her breath and 
said Stephens had difficulty keeping balance.
A witness at the scene of the crash told FHP 
Stephens was asleep behind the wheel and the car was running before the witness came up to Ste-
phens’ car window, according to the report. 
Stephens performed poorly on field sobriety 
exercises and was arrested on charges of driving 
under the influence, damaging property and leav-
ing an accident without providing identification.
She was taken to the Alachua County Jail 
where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$300,000 bond.FHP: Woman 
crashes car, leaves 
scene, drives drunk
Stephens
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF alumna Eunice Heath was recently 
named a Forty Over 40 honoree for her role 
in developing inclusivity in STEM, or sci-ence, technology, engineering and math.
The Forty Women To Watch Over 40 
is an annual line-up of influential women who are “reinventing, disrupting and mak-ing an impact” in their respective fields, according to the company’s website. Every year they honor women noted for their out-standing achievements.
Heath, an African-American woman, 
was also selected for her work with various STEM inclusivity programs, such as the 
National Society of Black Engineers, which 
hosts educational programs geared toward introducing young African-Americans to STEM, she said.
Heath, who earned her bachelor’s in in-
dustrial and systems engineering from UF, developed the STEM education strategy for Dow Chemical Company, where she cur-rently serves as the global director.
“Everyone deserves the opportunity to 
excel in this field,” she said. “Right now, women and minorities are vastly under-represented. This is something I’ve always been conscious of as an African-American woman in STEM.”
She hopes the award will bring more 
recognition not only to her and her work, but to STEM inclusivity as a whole, she said.
“If we’re able to empower children at a 
young age to pursue careers in STEM, I’m confident that we can cultivate a more sus-tainable future,” said Heath.UF alumna honored for 
work in STEM inclusivity
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Center for Latin American 
Studies is striving to raise $5,000 by 
the end of the month. 
The funds raised through the 
Days of Giving fundraising cam-
paign will be added to the Carmen 
Diana Deere Director’s Fund, which is named after the center’s former di-rector. Deere served in the position from 2004 to 2009. 
Upon retiring from UF in 2015, 
Deere created a fund in her name with an initial donation of $30,000. The fund, which currently has $38,825, hopes to raise a total amount of $100,000. Deere vowed to match all donations made to the 
fund up to $35,000. 
The Days of Giving campaign 
was intentionally scheduled for No-
vember, said Phillip Williams, a UF professor and the director of the Cen-ter for Latin American Studies. 
“It’s the month of November, and 
it is a month to give thanks,” Wil-liams said. “Part of it is to thank Dr. 
Deere for all that she did at UF for 
Latin American studies, but really globally for Latin American studies.” 
Williams said the fund focuses on 
supporting new strategic initiatives and scholarly opportunities for stu-dents. 
He said the fund could be used 
for developing new training or study abroad programs and supporting op-portunities for students beyond the classroom. The fund will be used at the discretion of the director of the Center of Latin American Studies, he said.
In addition to her role at UF, 
Deere also served as the president of 
the Latin American Studies Associa-
tion and the New England Council of Latin American Studies, Williams said. She is currently serving on the International Panel on Social Prog-ress. 
Aimee Greene, the center’s de-
velopment officer, worked with 
Deere when Greene was in the cen-
ter’s master’s program from 2007 to 2009. Greene said Deere emphasized helping her students as much as she could. She said Deere used to have students over to her home for din-ners and would take special care in guiding them during their studies. 
“I think that was very special to 
find in a faculty member,” Greene said. “She is a special part of this center’s history.” 
Greene said the fund will not go 
into use until the desired $100,000 goal is reached. 
Greene is hoping the campaign 
will encourage recent alumni and 
first-time donors to give back to the 
center, even if the amount is just $10, she said. 
Williams said the fundraiser 
would help the center grow.
“When Deere was director, she 
did a lot to consolidate the center as a world-class center in Latin Ameri-can studies,” Williams said. “It is im-
portant to have this fund to maintain 
UF’s preeminence in Latin American studies.”   
@camille_respess
crepess@alligator.org
UF Latin American Studies holds campaign for student fund
By Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Christmas morning, gifts under the 
Brumfield family tree won’t come from fam-ily members or Santa but will be given by generous strangers. 
Be the Kind, a charity organization, is 
organizing a drive to collect gifts for its “ad-opted family,” which includes Chris Brum-field and eight grandchildren she cares for, said Lisa Greene, the Be the Kind event or-ganizer.
Greene said the Brumfields are the first 
family the organization has adopted since it started in February. The charity has giv-en care packages to homeless people and 
paired UF students with low-income fami-
lies in the area. 
“Each month we try to find something to 
do in the community,” Greene said. “Some way to spread positivity in the community.”
The charity announced it would provide 
gifts for the family, which includes children ranging from 1 year old to 13 years old, in November and asked donors to send in toys 
to organizers.
Be the Kind created an online sign-up 
sheet for members to commit to gifting cer-
tain items, said Erin Peterson, a Be the Kind member. Peterson, who is wrapping gifts for the family, plans to donate Nerf guns, a board game and holiday treats she plans to bake herself.“Donating to the cause makes me feel 
grateful for every single thing I have in my own life,” she said.
The children sent in a wish list and asked 
for toy trucks, nail polish, clothes and jewel-ry-making kits.
Samuel, 3, only wants Transformers.“He loves them Transformers,” Chris 
Brumfield said. “He’s always asking me to buy him some.”
Brumfield made a wish list for herself 
and requested cleaning supplies and other household items. But, Greene and other 
members of Be the Kind plan to buy gifts 
the whole family can enjoy.
“We want to make sure she’s getting to 
celebrate, too,” Greene said. “That she gets to feel special, too.”
Brumfield, who has 16 grandchildren to-
tal, said she is thankful for the upcoming Christmas because her youngest daughter, and four other grandchildren, will be home. 
She said she hasn’t seen them since 2012.
“Just to see my grandkids and see the 
smiles on their faces and God giving me life, 
health and my strength,” Brumfield said. “That’s all I can ask for Christmas.”
Besides celebrating new gifts and toys, 
Brumfield said the family will be together for Brumfield’s daughter’s birthday, Samu-el’s fourth birthday and, of course, Christ-
mas.
“I’m grateful,” Brumfield said. “I’m 
grateful forever.” Local charity ‘adopts’ 
family for ChristmasBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman with an active warrant 
out for her arrest was found by deputies hiding 
behind a washing machine Saturday, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office said.
Lakenna King Scott, 41, was in her home at 
about 9:49 a.m. when ACSO 
deputies arrived to arrest her on a warrant for aggressive abuse on a child, according to an arrest report. Law en-forcement was told by her probation officer she would be there, they said.
Using a patrol car speaker 
system, deputies called to 
the house from outside that they were there to collect Scott. They made announcements and knocked on the front door for 25 minutes, ac-cording to the report.
Another woman opened the door and said 
she wasn’t sure if Scott was in the house, and police went inside and searched the home, ac-cording to the report.
After 30 minutes of searching, deputies an-
nounced they would send a police dog in to sniff for her.
A police dog found Scott behind her washing 
machine, according to the report. She told police she was hiding because she didn’t want to go to jail, and she knew she wouldn’t receive a bond. 
ACSO said it took an hour, five deputies and 
a police dog to arrest Scott. Scott was arrested for resisting arrest and was taken to the Alachua 
County Jail where she remains, as of press time, 
with no bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgACSO: Police dog finds 
woman hiding from warrant
PRICES FOR WRAPPING RANGE 
FROM $1.50 TO $7.
By Lauren Smith
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lori Coats, from now until Dec. 24, will 
wrap holiday gifts at The Oaks Mall for 
charity.
Coats, 44, and other members of the 
Pentecostal Church of Gainesville wrap gifts 
with paper, bows, ribbons, bags and tissue 
paper near the mall’s Cinnabon to support organizations within their church including Women of Worth, Revolution Youth, Soul Mates Marriage Group, Senior Saints and Housekeeping and Bible Quizzers, she said.
“We love providing a service to 
Gainesville,” Coats said. “It’s a great town.”
The volunteers from the church took a 
class on gift wrapping the week before they opened their annual sale at the mall, Coats said. The prices for wrapping range from $1.50 to $7, depending on size.
The group raised $200 the first day, said 
Caitlyn Toney, 19, a church member and Indiana Bible College worship studies and music sophomore.
Toney’s parents are the pastors of the 
church, and her mother taught the gift wrapping class.
“This is what my church does. It’s a good 
way to gain fellowship with people within the church and out,” she said. “Plus, Christ-mas is my favorite holiday.”
Yamalie White, 38, was leaving the mall 
with gifts she had bought when she noticed the church’s stand and gave them T-shirts for her children and an electric grill for her 
boyfriend to wrap. 
“I couldn’t miss out on this,” she said. “I 
just don’t do gift wrapping at home. It’s too 
much of a hassle.” Church fundraises with 
annual gift-wrapping service
PRICES
$1.50 jewelry or gift card box
$2.50 extra small gift box$3 small gift box$4 medium gift box$4.50 large gift or small apparel box$5 medium apparel$5.50 large apparel or extra large gift$6.50 large purse$7 jumbo gift bag
SPECIALS
10 percent discount on wrap orders of more than five gifts.Additional 5 percent discount for orders of 10 or more gifts scheduled to wrap between now and Dec. 13.50 cent convenience fee added to all credit card transactions.Scott
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608Century 21 Elite LocationsCall Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Felt single speed/fixie with flip flop hub. White Industries freewheel & custom Campagnolo components. One of a kind, build cost $1350. 55cm/medium size frame in excellent condi-tion. Absolutely a steal at $480. 352-278-4421  12-1-17-3-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils 
& internet incl. Grad student preferred. 
Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join 
my team to share amazing biotech device 
which helped me to walk again without dis-
comfort. Set your hours. Help others with 
their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-
vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-
cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. 
Internships available. 941-345-7705 or
berramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco 
Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for very suc-cessful Entrepreneur. $20/hr. Must have vibrant personality, be in great physical shape, enjoys sporting events. Office sup-port; computer &amp; plan social functions; light house work/errands; some travel. Email resume & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com    1-8-18-6-14
RGIS, LLCHiring NOW!
Inventory Associates• Starting: $9.00• Flexible p/t work• Promotion opportunities• Regular wage reviews• Grp health plan after 90 days• Equal Opportunity EmployerStart your career today!Apply @: www.rgis.comJob #: PRE1511       1-8-18-6-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
1. In 2016, Seattle’s Robinson Cano 
became the fourth major-league play-
er to have at least 50 extra-base hits in 
each of his first 12 seasons. Name two 
of the other three.
2. Name the major-league teams 
managed by Hall of Famer Leo Durocher.
3. Nick Chubb set a record at the 
University of Georgia in 2015 for most consecutive games rushing for 
at least 100 yards (13). Who had held 
the mark?
4. Name the last team before the 
Cleveland Cavaliers in 2015 to sweep the Eastern Conference Finals in the 
NBA playoffs.
5. Who was Pittsburgh Penguins 
star Sidney Crosby’s first NHL head 
coach?
6. When was the last time before 
2016 (Ginny Thrasher) that an Ameri-can medaled at the Olympic 10 meter air rifle event?
7. Name the three golfers who won 
back-to-back Masters Tournaments.
Answers
1. Carlos Lee, Albert Pujols and 
Eddie Mathews.
2. The Brooklyn Dodgers (1939-
46, ‘48), New York Giants (1948-55), Chicago Cubs (1966-72) and Houston Astros (1972-73).
3. Herschel Walker, with 12 games 
of 100-plus rushing yards (1980-81).
4. The New Jersey Nets went 4-0 
versus Detroit in 2003.
5. Ed Olczyk, in the 2005-06 season.6. Nancy Johnson won a gold medal 
in 2000.
7. Jack Nicklaus (1965-66), Nick 
Faldo (1989-90) and Tiger Woods (2001-02).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 14, 2016 King Features Weekly ServiceMONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
ACROSS
1 The “m” in 
E = mc≤
5 Put into force
10 Wood-shaping
tool
14 Severely
damaged sea
15 Morning show
featuring Al Roker
16 Drubbed or
whipped
17 Calf-length skirt
18 Lady’s canine
love
19 Omar of “The
Mod Squad”
20 Seaside shade
provider
23 Bone: Pref.
24 Second person
25 Grammy category28 “Don’t play”
music symbols
32 “I’ll do that!”34 Opposite of pos.37 Philatelist’s
volumes
40 Soothing
succulent
42 Inclined
43 Sitter’s nemesis
44 Practice that
develops a variety
of employee skills
47 Letters after ems48 “Not __!”: “Quiet!”49 Macho guy51 Not agin52 Musician’s gift55 Curriculum __:
résumé
59 Kid’s imaginary
companions, and
what’s literallyfound in thispuzzle’s circles
64 Remove a rind
from
66 “Ask me if __”
67 Pigeon banter68 Drops the ball69 Country south of
Egypt
70 French I verb71 Path behind a
ship
72 Poet’s muse73 Taken in, as a
movieDOWN
1 Cuban dance
2 Spring zodiac sign3 ’70s-’80s
Egyptianpresident Anwar
4 Deli machine5 Caesar’s ides-of-
March words
6 Good name for
an average guy
7 Not much (of)
8 Top-selling
Toyota
9 Blood bank spec
10 Second son
11 Act of leaving
12 Microwave
13 Sci-fi beings
21 Long-handled
garden tools
22 Break in the
action
26 Capital of Jordan27 Annoying types29 “Now!” in the OR30 Brit’s sign-off
31 Northampton
women’s college
33 Flow back
34 City south of
Baghdad35 Wed on the wing
36 Lose it big-time
38 Ballet dip39 Tiny physics bit
41 Poetic palindrome
45 Oil gp. that
includes Iraq
46 “Avatar” race50 Nephews’ sisters53 Come to light54 Happen multiple
times56 Govt. security57 Love dearly58 German steel 
city
60 Beyond that61 “Look what I did!”
62 Group with
pledges
63 Nevada gambling
city
64 Church bench
65 Notable time
By Mark McClain©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/27/1711/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Lollygag
1.  Program, agenda5.  Apple ____
2.  Bereaved husband 6.  ____ field
3.  Theft7.  Heehawed
4.  Situated ELAWDD
CTEDKODECRI
THWAE
IDEWWRO
ANEYCLRYBARDE
EAESDTANSWERS: 1A-Dawdle  5A-Cider  6A-Wheat  7A-Brayed
1D-Docket  2D-Widower  3D-Larceny  4D-Seated  B-Oscar Wilde11-27-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was born in Dublin, Ireland, 
on Oct. 16, 1854.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Swelled head
4 Short-lived
fashions
8 Tennis venue
13 Color similar to
khaki
14 Bowling venue
15 Florida senator
Marco
16 Advocacy group
descriptor
19 Remove from
power
20 Pyramid scheme,
e.g.
21 “Can’t Fight This
Feeling” band __
Speedwagon
22 Decathlon event26 One in Montréal27 Period often
named for aleader
28 Disruptive forum
commenter
31 Pub projectile33 Actor Sharif36 Two-dimensional
calculations
38 Mighty Dog
shelfmate
39 Kathmandu’s
country
41 Apple juice
eponym
42 Bathroom bars44 Freeway hauler45 Tend to a
simmering sauce
46 Raise a stink48 Gerund syllable50 __ roll: winning51 Draw upon
55 Toss in
58 Bread with tikka
masala
59 Wiggled digits
60 1999 Winona
Ryder drama setin a mentalhospital
65 Bath-loving
Muppet
66 Zagreb native67 “I don’t __ you
anything!”
68 Kia headquarters
city
69 URL opener70 Archery bow
woodDOWN
1 Martians, e.g., for
short
2 Hole in one’s
story
3 Bogey
4 Old-fashioned
clothes presser
5 Every last bit6 Jefferson,
religiously
7 Lip-__: mouth the
words
8 Coffee-mate
competitor
9 “It can be __ little
secret”
10 Lyft alternative
11 Climb
12 Dog that bit Miss
Gulch
14 Supermarket
walkway
17 Pool stick
18 Sharp-tasting22 Last Supper
traitor
23 Like old watches
24 Roster entries
25 Rewards for early
birds?
29 “Anna Karenina”
novelist
30 Salma Hayek or
Sofia Vergara32 Debate issue
34 Gibbon, e.g.35 Insert with force37 Wander from the
path
40 Dryer screen
used to “catch” ahidden word in16-, 22-, 51- and60-Across?
43 Droopy-eared
pooch
47 Stylish vigor49 Date, with “with”52 Bathroom stall
fastener
53 Motionless54 Oomph
55 Quite some time
56 Threatening57 First Bond movie61 Lucy of
“Elementary”
62 Poppycock63 Farm female
64 Morning moisture
By C.C. Burnikel
(c)2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/21/1711/21/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 21, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.The Gators volleyball team was 
picked as the No. 2 overall seed in the NCAA T ournament on Sunday. Senior Shainah Joseph is a big reason why. Read the story, pg. 15. Gators faced Duke in Phil Knight Invitational
The game ended too late to be included in the paper, but regardless of the 
outcome, Florida’s performance leading up to the championship game against the No. 1 Blue Devils helped boost the No. 7 Gators’ national title chances. Read the column, pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The room is quiet. You can go 
in.
A college quarterback is stand-
ing in front of a microphone. He has just ﬁ  nished playing his last football game of the season, ﬁ  n-ished taking off his bulky shoul-der pads and his bright orange jersey, and, for the last time this year, is speaking to a group of re-porters.
“Coach (Randy) Shannon al-
ways says this one thing,” Feleipe Franks begins.
And then he pauses. He looks 
down.
“He says it didn’t happen to 
me,” Franks continues. “It hap-pened for me.”
The criticism. The insults. The 
hate. Franks — along with the rest 
of the Florida football team — has endured his fair share of all three this season, one of the most for-gettable seasons in the history of Florida football. It ended on Satur-day the same way it began — with an utter letdown.  
After the game, Franks said he 
hopes it fuels him.
“Hopefully,” Franks said, “I’m 
going to look back and I’m going to be like, ‘I’m glad that happened to me, when everybody was hat-ing me. I’m glad that happened to me because it made me dig deep-er, made me be a better person, made me work harder.’”
His teammates hope so, too.Slowly, one by one, they 
walked off the ﬁ  eld.
They walked past University 
of Florida President Kent Fuchs, who stood near the locker room tunnel, clapping.
They walked past their cheer-
ing friends and family, some of whom clambered down the bleachers after the ﬁ  nal whistle had blown to hug their sons, brothers, grandsons and nephews and tell them they were proud. So, so proud.
They walked past the numbers 
that still glowed across the score-
Gators’ loss to Seminoles ends forgettable year of football
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16You fool.
Dan Mullen, you just signed up for the 
most stressful years of your life. 
The former Mississippi State coach and 
Florida offensive coordinator agreed to be-come the Gators next head coach, the school announced Sunday evening.
Dan, you didn’t have to take the job. There 
was no gun to your head. But there is now. 
For many Florida fans, saying they have 
high expectations is an understatement. The more demanding half of Gator Nation needs 
wins like they need water to survive. 
At some level, the decision is an admirable 
one — like diving on a grenade or marching 
into battle with 300 Spartans against 100,000 
Persian warriors. The opportunity for glory is 
there. But the toll that being Florida’s head coach takes on someone is enough to make all the zeros on a coaching contract look in-signiﬁ  cant. 
To the unassuming half of UF fans, let’s 
talk about just how distressing the Gators’ top job is. 
Jim McElwain was the ﬁ  rst coach in SEC 
history to win his division in his ﬁ  rst two sea-sons. By the third year, he said he was get-ting death threats and endless hate mail. And halfway through the 2017 season, he was out. 
Urban Meyer, who won two of UF’s three 
national championships in his six-year ten-ure, lost 37 pounds, was rushed to the hos-Dan Mullen just 
volunteered to go 
through hellMatt’s What She Said / Opinion
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Mullen returns to UF in the wake of its 
second losing season since 1980. The Gators 
went 4-7 this fall and ﬁ  red Jim McElwain on Oct. 29, just one day after a 42-7 loss to Georgia.
Over the course of Florida’s search for a 
new coach, Mullen wasn’t the only candi-date to receive consideration for the job, ac-cording to reports.
Stricklin reportedly targeted both former Oregon coach Chip Kelly — who was hired by UCLA on Saturday — and current UCF coach Scott Frost — who told Stricklin he 
wasn’t interested in the position, according 
to USA Today’s Dan Wolken — before mak-ing the decision to hire Mullen on Sunday.
Now, Florida’s new coach is tasked with 
turning around a program that ranked in the bottom three of the SEC in both points and yards per game over the last two seasons.
That turnaround begins with solidifying 
its 2018 recruiting class, which has lost three 
commits since McElwain’s ﬁ  ring, including two this past weekend.
The Gators’ 2018 class is still ranked in 
the top 15 nationally, according to Rivals, and features four-star quarterback Matt Cor-
ral.
The signing date for recruits to join Flor-
ida as early enrollees is Dec. 20, while Na-tional Signing Day is slated for Feb. 7.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgCOACH,  from pg 1Mullen wasn’t only coach on Gators’ wish list
Alligator File Photo
Dan Mullen was Florida’s offensive coordinator from 2005 to 2008, helping the program win two national championships 
over that span. The Gators went 44-9 and averaged 36.3 points per game during his first stint in Gainesville.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
VOLLEYBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Since being embarrassed by 
Kentucky on their home ﬂ  oor on 
Oct. 15, the Gators (25-1, 17-1 
SEC) have reeled off 11 consecu-
tive wins, including a revenge victory against the Wildcats in Lexington on Nov. 1.
Florida was rewarded for that 
streak Sunday, when the team was announced as the No. 2 over-
all seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
UF will play its ﬁ  rst match of the tournament at home against Ala-bama State (28-10) on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
According to senior Carli Sny-
der,  Florida owes that seed and late-season surge in part to the emergence of redshirt senior 
Shainah Joseph.
“Shainah’s been crucial to the 
run that we’ve had, and she is a 
huge piece of our offense,” Sny-der said.
Joseph tallied at least 10 kills 
in seven of those 11 wins, includ-ing a career-high 20 against Mis-souri on Senior Day. Joseph led 
all players with 19 kills in Satur-
day’s rematch against the Tigers.
Snyder said Joseph’s increased 
role has made life easier for every Gator on the court.
“You have Rhamat (Alhassan) 
in the middle, Shainah (Joseph) on the right side and Rachael 
(Kramer) in the middle,” Snyder 
said. “That’s a really difﬁ  cult combination to stop.”
After beating Missouri in its 
regular-season ﬁ  nale, Florida improved to 17-1 in conference play, tied with Kentucky for the 
best SEC record. This marks the 
second straight year Florida was named co-SEC champion, after sharing the title with Missouri in 2016.
The Gators were recipients of 
several individual SEC honors on Wednesday as well.
Senior Rhamat Alhassan 
(NCAA leader in blocks per set) was named SEC Player of the Year and joined Snyder, Joseph, 
Kramer and Caroline Knop on the 
All-SEC Team. Florida coach Mary Wise and Kentucky coach Craig Skinner were voted co-Coaches of the Year after leading their teams 
to 25-1 and 26-3 regular-season 
records.
“Rhamat is a once-every-
10-years type of player,” Wise 
said. “We appreciate the coaches 
in our league recognizing what a special talent she is.”
Alhassan downplayed the award, saying it was “cool” to 
win, but she’s focused on a big-
ger prize.
“My goal is a national cham-
pionship,” she said. “That’s what 
I want.”
The Gators lost in their only 
national championship appear-
ance to Southern California in 2003, but they have reached the 
Final Four seven times and have 
never missed the NCAA Tourna-ment since hiring Wise in 1991.
To return to the ﬁ  nals, Florida 
will have to avoid the same mis-takes it made a year ago when it was upset in the second round by Florida State.The Gators aren’t lacking in 
conﬁ  dence, though.
“It’s so exciting to think about 
the postseason and how far this team could really go,” Kramer 
said.
Wise said the team will con-
tinue to rely on its seniors during 
the NCAA Tournament.
“They understand how much 
is at stake,” she said.
Florida is 5-1 against ranked 
teams this season — compared to a 1-2 record in 2016 — thanks in 
large part to a defense that leads 
the SEC in blocks per set and op-ponent hitting percentage and ranks top three nationally in both categories.
“For the past few years we’ve 
always been that really aggressive offensive team,” Kramer said, “And maybe we’ll hold teams to 
a higher hitting percentage, but 
we’ll still beat them — and that’s not the case this year.
“Our blocking has been fan-
tastic throughout the front row,” 
she continued. “It’s hard to get 
around us.”
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org Gators carry No. 2 seed, stiﬂ  ing defense into NCAA Tournament  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
From left: Shainah Joseph, Allie Monserez and Rhamat Alhassan are part of a dominant Florida team that earned a No. 2 seed in the 
NCAA T ournament on Sunday. The Gators’ ﬁ  rst match will be against Alabama State on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the O’Connell Center. 
After a thrilling double-overtime win 
against No. 17 Gonzaga on Friday, the 
Gators played No. 1 Duke in the Phil 
Knight Invitational championship game on 
Sunday.
While the contest ran too late for us to 
put a game recap in the paper, one thing I 
can tell you is that Florida’s performance 
helped its national championship aspira-tions in three ways: 
(1) It built its resume for the NCAA 
Tournament, (2) it showed the nation what 
kind of team Florida has and (3) it proved 
to White and UF fans that the Gators can compete with any team it faces.
Playing in the PK80 boosts Florida’s 
chances of receiving a top seed in the NCAA Tournament come March. Scor-ing 108 points against Stanford in the ﬁ  rst round and defeating a top-20 team in Gonzaga are solid wins the selection committee will 
surely look at.
Last year, early victories 
against Seton Hall and Miami 
and close losses against Gonza-
ga and Duke stuffed the Gators’ 
resume, factoring into UF earn-ing a No. 4-seed in the NCAA Tournament. Facing talented, top-notch programs this week 
was a huge opportunity Florida would’ve 
been crazy to pass up.
Aside from getting the chance to com-
pete against some of the best teams in the 
country, the Gators also learned a lot about 
themselves.
Florida showed they have a high-scor-ing, fast-paced offense that shoots a lot of threes. I men-tioned in a column I wrote last 
week that the squad’s three-
point shooting tendencies could be a problem for it mov-ing forward.
But against Gonzaga, UF 
proved it can still pull out a win when it struggles from the arc early on. Florida went 4-of-12 in the ﬁ  rst half, forcing it to 
ﬁ  nd other ways to keep the game within reach. If it wasn’t for strong performances by guards Jalen Hudson, Chris Chiozza and KeVaughn Allen, the game against the 
Bulldogs wouldn’t have been close.
However, that win showed that even 
when UF as a whole struggles, the Gators can rely on  just a few of their players to 
step up and take over.
That can be a good thing.
With a huge shooting performance 
against Stanford and a gritty win over Gon-
zaga, Florida has the talent to compete against any team in the country. A strong 
game against Duke solidiﬁ  ed that claim. On 
nights where Hudson goes cold, the Gators can turn to Allen, guard Egor Koulechov, or even Chiozza to carry the offense.
The Phil Knight Tournament provided a 
glimpse into the season Florida will have, and if it continues to play the same way, UF could be a team to look out for in the NCAA Tournament.
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator’s online 
sports editor. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.
Three ways the Phil Knight Invitational helped Florida’s bid for a national titleJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJake16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017
board: Florida State 38, Florida 22.
“It sucks,” sophomore receiver 
Josh Hammond said, quieter than 
usual. “A lot of guys are really hurt right now.”
You could see it on Mark Thomp-
son’s face. The running back trans-ferred to Florida before last season, hoping to develop into a featured SEC halfback and help lead Florida on a deep postseason run.
Neither of those things hap-
pened.
“A lot of things didn’t go my 
way,” Thompson said.
The same can be said for Flor-
ida. 
The program failed at nearly 
every one of its goals this season:  It lost its season opener against Michigan after then-coach Jim McElwain guaranteed a win. It lost its homecoming game against LSU because of a missed extra point. It lost its annual neutral-site rivalry game against Georgia by five touch-downs. And it lost its final game of 
the season to Florida State on Se-
nior Day, ending the year with a 
losing record for the second time in just under four decades.
“There shouldn’t be any excus-
es,” sophomore linebacker David Reese said. “We had a lot of games where we should have won.”
But there are positives Florida 
will take from this season, like Re-ese, who began Fall training camp as Florida’s wide-eyed starting line-backer and ended it as UF’s locker room-leader.
Reese represents the next gen-
eration of Florida players, many of whom will return next season under the new coaching regime, including at least three of its four leading receivers, three of its four 
leading rushers, six of its nine lead-
ing tacklers and its starting quarter-back. 
“It’s a talented team,” Shannon 
said. “Whoever inherits this team 
is going to be really excited about 
it.”
On Sunday, Florida announced 
that Dan Mullen, head coach at 
Mississippi State for the last nine years and offensive coordinator at Florida from 2005-2008, will take over as the Gators’ new coach. Shannon said he has enjoyed be-ing Florida’s interim coach, but he declined to say whether he wants to return, even in an assistant role.
Many of Florida’s players have 
said they want Shannon to return. But they also said, whether he comes back or not, Florida will be just fine.
“We’re going to be back,” Reese 
said. “We’re the Gators, and we’re going to get somebody to come in and be great for us.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UF closes with 38-22 loss to Seminoles
pital with heart problems, and 
needed Ambien and beer to sleep by the 2009 season. 
“I thought I was dying,” 
Meyer told ESPN. “Mentally, I was broke.”
Mullen was Meyer’s offen-
sive coordinator for most of those seasons. And his wife said she was harassed at the supermarket — not only if Florida didn’t win, but if her 
husband’s offense didn’t score 
more than 43 points.
“I was going to the grocery 
store in Orlando,” Megan Mul-
len said on MSU’s Bully Pul-
pit podcast. “I was driving the groceries back to Gainesville because it was that bad.”
Dan Mullen himself has 
been forthcoming about the pressure. While at Mississippi State in 2014, he said he and Meyer didn’t enjoy coaching at 
UF by the end of their tenure. “I think we put it into a 
position where winning was 
no longer fun,” Mullen said. 
“Winning was a relief. Losing 
was the greatest disaster that could come upon you. So there was never a joy aspect any-
more at the end at Florida.”
As expected, Mullen re-
membered his time at Florida 
with a little more optimism when he was officially an-
nounced as Florida’s coach, 
saying he’s happy to return to Gainesville with a supportive administration (that ousted its 
last coach after back-to-back 
division titles) and fan base (that threatens coaches on Twitter daily). 
“Megan and I are very excit-
ed to get back to Gainesville,” Mullen said in a release. 
Matt Brannon is the Alliga-
tor’s sports editor. You can con-
tact him at mbrannon@alliga-tor.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14SOCCER
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Even though the Gators advanced to the 
quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament, 
their postseason run isn’t what defines 
them. What summed up their season more 
than anything was the surprise the seniors organized for coach Becky Burleigh before UF’s first game. 
The Gators wore a patch on the right 
sleeve of their uniforms, reading “R&N” in honor of Burleigh’s parents, Ron and Nan-cy, who passed away in February and July, respectively.
“It was very unexpected, for sure,” Bur-
leigh said. “It is something my family will never forget.”
Florida played with the patches all sea-
son. And when a season of program mile-stones, exhilarating matches and individu-al achievements ended against No. 5 South Carolina on Friday, UF captain Gabby Seiler dedicated it all to her coach.
“It was really special because we got to 
play for something bigger than ourselves,” Seiler said. “Becky’s parents passing away and us being able to be there for her and 
rise up for her. The season was for her.”
Burleigh became the second Division I 
women’s soccer coach to reach 400 wins 
since 1995 and made UF the fifth program with 400 wins in that time frame after de-
feating Missouri on Oct. 5. 
The Gators made their 15th consecutive 
NCAA Tournament appearance this year, advancing to the quarterfinals for the sixth 
time in program history and for the first time since 2014.
Along the way, UF picked up impressive 
wins, including an early-season victory against No. 1 Stanford on Aug. 25.
The match is Stanford’s only loss so far 
this season, as Florida rallied back from a 2-1 deficit to defeat the Cardinal on an 
82nd-minute winner from junior Lais Arau-
jo.
Game winners were plentiful in 2017 from SEC Freshman of the Year Deanne Rose, who finished the season with five. Her latest winner captured the match for 
UF against Washington State in double 
overtime of the NCAA Tournament’s Sweet 16.
Rose also led the Gators this season 
with nine goals and earned a spot on the All-SEC First Team. Seiler and redshirt sophomore Parker Roberts joined Rose on the All-SEC First Team, and redshirt senior Kristen Cardano and junior Rachelle Smith made the All-SEC second team. 
Roberts and Smith will return next sea-
son after leading the team with more than 2,000 minutes played each in 2017. 
Seiler and Cardano, along with redshirt 
junior Jessie Holmes and senior Cassie Owens, saw their careers at Florida end on Friday.  The senior class led UF through its deep tournament run with the initials of Burleigh’s parents on its shoulders.
“This group is really, really special and 
will always be special to me regardless what the scoreboard says or how far we got,” Burleigh said. “It was a very touching 
season for me.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgAfter Elite Eight loss, Gators look back on special season 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida defenders Jessie Holmes (left), Parker Roberts and the rest of the Gators soccer team sported patches commemorating the 
death of coach Becky Burleigh’s parents. The team’s senior class came up with the idea for a jersey patch at the start of the season. 
