We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 119 THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
Florida softball shuts out North 
Dakota State
The Gators improved to 23-1, pg. 14
Folk singer City and Colour to perform in GNV
The show will be at the Florida Theatre on Sunday, pg. 9
Where to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day in town
Mother’s Pub and The Atlantic are just a few places celebrating,pg. 8FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Two current Saturday Night Live cast mem-
bers are bringing their comedy chops to the 
O’Connell Center for a free show March 22. 
Accent Speakers Bureau is bringing Kenan 
Thompson and Michael Che, who will be paid a combined $100,000, Accent Chairman Mike Greenberg said. The two will each perform 
about 20 to 30 minutes of standup comedy, 
and then participate in a Q&A moderated by New York Times culture writer Dave Itzkoff.
Greenberg said tickets 
won’t be required for the event, which will have a capacity of about 6,000 people. Thompson and Che 
will perform at 8 p.m., with 
doors opening at 7 p.m.
He said he hopes the event will be fun and 
inspire future comedians.
“They’re two of the most well-known co-medians, I think, from one 
of the most well-known 
shows that a lot of college 
students are watching,” Greenberg said.  
Sarah Schramek, an 
18-year-old Santa Fe High 
School student, said when 
she heard about the event, 
she immediately wanted to attend with her mom, who watches the show with her. 
“I’ve watched it for quite a while, and it’d just be really interesting,” she said.
Analise Walker, a 19-year-old UF criminol-
ogy and law freshman, said she’s watched SNL for seven years. She’s excited to see two of her favorite cast members come to UF.
“I just hope to enjoy some good comedy 
with some friends and have a lot of fun,” she 
said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
  SNL’s Kenan Thompson to perform standup at UF 
MEN’S BASKETBALL VS. EAST TENNESSEE STATE AT 3:10 P.M.
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Before Justin Leon takes the court, before 
he slips on his No. 23 jersey, before the arena 
doors open and Florida basketball fans ﬂ  ood in, his mom is awake in Arkansas.
She’s been up since 4 a.m. She clocked in 
at 5. And she’s about to spend 12 hours grind-
ing and grating, reshaping and recycling desks and chairs in a manufacturing plant in a town where job opportunities are mostly limited to 
assembly lines. 
“I enjoy it. I mean, it pays the bills,” she 
said. “It was a choice I had to make.”
But after 19 years and four bosses, Yolanda 
Marshall has come to one deep-seated, clear-
cut conclusion: She doesn’t want her son to work in this factory.
Getting him to pursue a college education 
was her solution.
And since it wasn’t clear Justin would get 
one on grades alone, he decided to use bas-ketball. 
 Now, years later, Justin will suit up for the 
biggest game of his life today at 3:10 in Or-lando. 
After two years of community college, 
two commitments and two decades of his mom pushing him to avoid a factory ﬂ  oor, his patience paid off: He’ll start for the fourth-seeded Gators in their return to the NCAA Tournament.
“The effort I put in,” he said, “made me ac-
tually be worth something.”•   •   •
Justin’s interest in basketball blossomed by 
the time he was 2, his dad, Arthur, said.
By kindergarten, Justin was enrolled in a 
program that focused on basketball. 
While his dad played video games, Justin 
pretended to be in the game, running around,  shooting and scoring on a Nerf basketball hoop that hung on the door. He synched his move-ments with the players on the screen, freezing Like his mom, Florida forward Justin Leon took the hard road  
SEE SPORTS,  PAGE 15By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Tuesday night after wit-
nesses saw him peeking through the windows of a UF sorority house.
At about 11:21 p.m. Tuesday, 
Hykeem Vernon Ford Marlin, 23, walked into the yard of the Kap-pa Alpha Theta house, located at 715 SW 10th St., and climbed the stairs to a patio, according to an arrest report. He looked through the house’s glass doors and tried to hide in the shadows, while a se-curity camera recorded his move-ments.
A witness saw Ford Marlin and 
called police as he walked away, according to the report. Police found him at the intersection of Southwest 10th Street and Southwest Seventh Avenue, but he tried to walk away when he saw a patrol car.
After his ar-
rest, Ford Mar-
lin told police 
he never went 
on the property 
of the sorority 
and stayed on the sidewalk. 
He continued 
to deny he had 
loitered, even when detectives 
told him he was on camera, ac-
cording to the report.
Police arrested Ford Marlin on 
Tuesday on a charge of loitering. 
Authorities took him to the Alach-
ua County Jail early Wednesday, 
where he remains as of press time 
in lieu of a $50,000 bond.
Members of Kappa Alpha The-
ta did not respond to requests for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  Police: Man caught 
peeking into sorority
Ford Marlin
Thompson
 Che
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Pied for the kids
Caroline Rutkin, a 19-year-old UF economics freshman, pies Madison Belfour, a 20-year-old UF 
journalism and business administration junior, on Turlington Plaza. The $1 pie-facing fundraiser was organized for Dance Marathon on Wednesday afternoon.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 119
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  61° LOW  31°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF’s University Galleries 
presents the MFA Thesis 
Candidates Exhibition IThe University Gallery is pleased to present the Master 
of Fine Arts Thesis Candidates 
Exhibition I now through March 24. The exhibition features art-work by graduating UF MFA students. Media represented in-clude graphic design, ceramics, installation, painting, printmak-ing, sculpture and video. The exhibition and opening recep-
tion are free and open to the 
public. The opening reception will be today at 5:30 p.m. in Fine Arts Building B. Participants in-clude Brianna Angelakis, Bridget Jeanne Hogan Fairbank, Ashley Fuchs, Brielle Jenkins and Megan Paige Ward.
Pop-up Tea Party 
Today at noon at the Reitz Union tabling area, a Pop-up Tea Party will include perfor-mances by various UF orches-tra students, tea and food. The event takes place on the day of the “Be Our Guest” event and will serve as a method of adver-
tisement for Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment and their event.
'Between Hell and Hope: 
Teaching Humanity in an Imperfect World'Author Leanne Lawrence will discuss her book about her ex-periences teaching students at 
the Alachua County Jail today 
at 5:30 p.m. in the College of Education, Terrace Room. It is co-sponsored by the Education Library and the College of Education Lectures, Seminars and Awards Committee.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents a Visiting Artist Lecture with Paul Ramirez JonasThe School of Art + Art History and the UF Sculpture Club are proud to present visiting artist Paul Ramirez Jonas as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series. The lecture series 
is free and open to the public. 
The lecture will begin today at 6 p.m. in the Fine Arts Building B, Room 103. The lectures offer the community at large an im-portant opportunity for dialogue about contemporary art and cul-ture in relation to national and international trends. For more 
information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Be Our Guest
Today at 7 p.m., attend this 
Beauty-and-the-Beast-themed event in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. This enchanting event will feature carnival style games that allow you to test your skills and strength, an assortment of 
sweet and savory treats, a photo 
booth, stained glass crafts, rose bath bomb making and more. All guests will get the chance to win raffle prizes throughout the night. Be sure to dress up if you would like the chance to win a charming costume contest prize. 
‘Pity for the Wild: Three 
Grotesques’ by Tennessee WilliamsThe UF School of Theatre and Dance presents audiences a “gro-tesque version” of Tennessee Williams’ “Pity for the Wild: Three Grotesques” from Friday until March 26. These plays 
are quite unlike the Williams 
most people are accustomed to. Directed by Tiza Garland and Ralf Remshardt, tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF fac-ulty and staff and seniors and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the University 
Box Office. More information is 
available at arts.ufl.edu.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWrite yourself into the art muse-um. Words on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing competition at the Harn Museum of Art for UF 
and Santa Fe College students 
inspired by art. Winning contes-tants will be awarded prizes. See the guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The deadline is Friday.
Saakumu Dance Troupe on 
Friday
Join Ghanaian Master Musician 
Bernard Woma and his Saakumu Dance Troupe for a performance Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. Woma and the Saakumu Dance Troupe’s diverse, multifaceted and integrative performance will bring together art, drama, 
dance, poetry, costuming, sculp-
ture, history, song and music in a highly participatory and inclu-sive performance. The perfor-mance is free and open to the public. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
GatorNights: Second Star to the 
Reitz If you like Disney magic and pixie dust, join GatorNights’ trip to Neverland on Friday, at GatorNights: Second Star to the Reitz. Check out live music by musical artist Haeley Vaughn as she performs Disney covers in the Grand Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Channel your inner “Up” as you create your own adventure book and personalize the night with a Moana Name 
Painting. Fly on over to the 
Reitz Union Auditorium for the film Hidden Figures, showing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Midnight Munchies this week will be na-chos. GatorNights is Always Friday, Always Free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees 
must be current students to par-
ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event. 
UF National Student Speech 
Language Hearing Association The 2017 Stride Against Silence 5K Run/Walk, benefit-
ting the UF Health Speech and 
Hearing Center, is just around the corner. The race will begin Saturday at 8:30 a.m. Following the race, there will be fun-filled activities for all ages. Make sure to register early to guarantee your shirt and goodie bag. There will be prizes for the most cre-
ative team, the largest team and 
all heroes. Register now at bit.ly/2ktWm4A.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
CORRECTION
In an article published March 15 titled "At Senate, calls for Meyers' resignation," the Alligator incorrectly reported that more than 300 students 
had signed a petition calling for 
Smith Meyers' resignation. The petition has received more than 300 signatures, but not all the signatures came from students and the Alligator cannot verify if anyone signed the petition more than once.THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student and two alumni are hoping to 
use an underwater robot to locate abandoned 
crab ﬁ  shing traps strewn across the ocean ﬂ  oor.
The three received a $6,000 grant from the 
U.S. Department of State in November to ﬁ  nd 
a way to remove  the “millions” of abandoned 
traps, called ghost ﬁ  shing traps, which entan-gle ﬁ  sh and marine life, sometimes fatally. 
Richard Barker and Sean McKnight, UF 
alumni, along with UF student Gloria Li formed Project GATOR (Ghost/Abandoned Trap Ob-servation and Recovery) to locate and remove the traps.
Barker, 23, said the group is working with 
the UF Machine Intelligence Laboratory and its “subjugator” machine, an underwater robot, to ﬁ  nd the traps.“The moonshot goal 
with it is to see if we can ﬁ  nd some techniques that 
can actually solve this prob-
lem in a cost-effective way,” Barker said.
Since the group received 
the grant money in January, 
its members have tested the robot in the pool by Gra-
ham Hall, said Li, a 19-year-old environmental science and philosophy sophomore.
Their sonar location hasn’t worked with the 
robot, so they’re looking into other cost-effec-tive methods to locate the traps, Li said.
“While it may seem like a sort of isolated 
issue, there are millions of them out there right now,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org UF student, alumni to use 
robot in search of crab trapsBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Flaco’s Cuban Bakery was closed for the 
night when employees spotted a white trash 
bag by the front door Wednesday.
When the two employees opened the bag 
at about 3 a.m., they found a $350 painting 
of a rhino — one that was missing from the 
restaurant for nearly two weeks. 
“He probably didn’t want any more trou-
ble,” said Flaco’s co-owner Sara Puyama of 
the return. No one has identiﬁ  ed the thief or 
the person who returned the painting. 
At 2:17 a.m. Feb. 25, a surveillance camera 
captured an unknown man taking the painting off the wall and walking out of the restaurant during the early morning rush, Puyama said.
“Two a.m. at Flaco’s is always a little cra-
zy,” she said, adding that the restaurant was 
understaffed that night because one of the 
employees was sick. She said she noticed the painting was gone the next day but thought the artist, Milan Hooper, had taken it. 
Four days later, Hooper called her and 
asked where the painting was. 
“That’s when we ﬁ  gured it out,” Puyama 
said.
She shared a photo of the man taking the 
painting on Facebook while Hooper said he reported the theft to Gainesville Police on Monday, prior to the painting’s return. 
This is the second time a painting has been 
stolen from the restaurant, but the ﬁ  rst time the missing artwork was returned.
“He must have felt the heat, is all I can ﬁ  g-
ure,” Hooper said. 
Hooper said he plans to sell the painting 
and won’t bother continuing to look for the man.
“If we really wanted to do more detec-
tive work, we could, but I don’t really give a damn,” he said. “I got the painting back.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgF laco’s painting returned
Li
THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students held an unconventional bake 
sale on Wednesday, one that attempted to point 
out the ﬂ  aws of socialism.
Members of UF’s Young Americans for Free-
dom offered passersby on Turlington Plaza two 
Krispy Kreme doughnuts or three chocolate 
chip cookies for a dollar — with a catch. After paying, students would receive only one of their promised treats. The rest were given away to poke holes in socialist ideals said Daniel Wel-don, founder of the organization.
Socialism is the economic and political the-
ory that relies on the government to distribute resources.
“It’s to make fun of the redistribution of 
wealth,” said Weldon, a 20-year-old UF politi-cal science sophomore.Weldon said his organization is nonproﬁ  t 
and nonpartisan with conservative ideals.
Sarah Long, 18, a member of the organiza-
tion, said Americans should be helped by their neighbors instead of the government.
“We want to be able to give back, but I don’t 
think we should do that at the expense of taking it from somebody else,” the UF political science freshman said.
Morgan Robinson, the vice president of the 
nonpartisan student organization Democracy Matters at UF, said the government must help 
eliminate the gap between the extremely rich 
and extremely poor.
“I think it’s important that the government 
does exist — ﬁ  rst and foremost — to serve the people; a lot of that is to close the gap,” said the 20-year-old UF international studies sopho-more. “The middle class is disappearing.” Students host anti-socialism 
bake sale on Turlington Plaza
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF student Sarah Nguyen thinks 
of Florida’s universities, her mind quickly 
jumps to athletic programs, not necessarily academics.
So the 18-year-old was surprised when 
she heard Florida ranked No. 1 in the coun-try for higher education over Ivy League schools.
The U.S. News and World Report ranked 
Florida No. 1 in higher education in a list  re-leased March 3. The ranking was made in part from comparing Florida’s tuition rates to other states and students’ low debt at gradu-ation, according to the report’s website. Utah 
came in second and California in third.
Nguyen said Florida schools are well-
known for their athletic programs.“The states with Ivy League schools up 
north are more selective,” said Nguyen, a 
UF health science freshman. “I would think 
they would’ve done better.”
The magazine ranked Florida second for 
low tuition and fees, third for a two-year 
graduation rate, 11th for low debt at gradua-tion and 32nd for a four-year college gradu-ation rate.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said UF’s 
tuition is the same as all public universities in Florida. UF has low fees in part because 
students don’t pay high athletic fees, since 
the program is self-sufﬁ  cient, he said.
“We’re one of the only ones in the coun-
try that operates in the black,” he said. “Our program makes money.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  Florida ranked No. 1 for 
higher education in USThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
One thing I learned quickly during my 
ﬁ  rst few weeks on campus last year is that hardly anybody valued or enjoyed 
the mandatory class “What is the 
Good Life?” My teaching assistant for 
the class acknowledged this stigma himself on our ﬁ  rst day of class. But he also posed to us a 
question, one that stopped me personally in my 
tracks. It was a simple question: Why are you in college?
Most people answered in order to earn 
money or to get a good job. Some said because it is the 
logical next step out of high school or because we were 
told to. It seemed as if nobody, including me, had chewed on this question and instead sort of stepped into college life blindly, without any self-reﬂ  ection as to what college 
is for and why it is important. Certainly, most parents 
view college as a means to achieving the American dream: ﬁ  nancial self-sufﬁ  ciency, a successful career, becoming a leader, etc. I’d say that is why most people in my Good Life class suggested college to them was like a career 
trampoline, simply because we were taught as much.
When an older man learned I was majoring in English, 
for example, he quickly retorted I must enjoy being poor. 
I ﬁ  nd this is a common assumption: A major is only 
useful monetarily or economically. College, within this 
assumption, becomes a sacred place for the remnants of childhood and adolescent freedoms to be exhausted and left empty upon graduating. In other words: Enjoy college, party, have loads of fun and major in something that will 
make you money, because it’s the last stage in your life 
that allows for ultimate freedom. To paraphrase the Bible, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow, we work.
This view of college, in short, is a utilitarian perspective, 
in that college is only meaningful according to its usefulness in gaining a great career.Is this view wrong? No. I would say it is 
rather too narrow. For it would be lunacy to believe entirely that college is not for career 
preparation. That is an essential characteristic 
of college; it prepares us for the job market, for adulthood. But I see so much more meaning in the ideal of a liberal college education. It is 
not just a place for revelry, though that is an 
ingredient; it is not just a career trampoline, though that is important.
Rather, I see college as a place for self-
examination, for inquiry and truth seeking. This time 
in our lives is a time for questioning — why am I here? 
What is a good life? Where do I come from, and where am I going? We are in a unique position, surrounded by thousands of people in similar life stages but also engaged 
with professors who have passed through our current stage. 
We can ask these questions to and among our friends and also listen to those older than us who have wrestled with answers. It is a sacred time for metaphysical discovery and learning about what it means to be a human being.
Having fun with our friends and seeking out a fruitful 
career are encompassed within my idea of college, but they are not determining factors of it. There is a deeper meaning to what college is for. As the Greek philosopher Socrates 
once famously said, “An unexamined life is not worth 
living.” I say the unexamined college life is not worth the price of admission. For it is the capacity to address life’s fundamental questions that, in a profound sense, is an essential constituent of what it means to be a human being. 
To me, college is the empty canvas where we can put this 
capacity into practice. It is the place where we can sharpen our abilities to think critically, listen and understand.
So I put the question to you: Why are you in college?
Scott Stinson is a UF English sophomore. His column 
typically appears on Wednesdays.Let me ask you this: Why are you in college?A message to the 
Student Body
We’ve received some complaints saying we as a news-paper opinions section have been too ambivalent. This was in regards to Wednesday’s editorial, which was intended to view the Smith Meyers situation at a macro-scale. We wanted to highlight the domination 
of the story across media and examine why it’s been so capti-vating; do a little bit of philosophical musing to offer a different opinion than those expressed by our columnists and readers. If it seemed like we were complacent, we want to apologize. If it was not clear Wednesday, we did in fact take a stance on the matter in Monday’s editorial.
In case you missed that one, here’s a summary: What Mey-
ers did reﬂ  ects badly upon UF and makes an embarrassment of 
our school. Meyers and Student Government handled the situa-
tion poorly, refusing to answer our reporters or make any state-ments for ﬁ  ve days. We want him and the rest of SG to be held accountable for their actions.
We mention it here again because it seemed to get lost be-
tween Monday and Wednesday.  
On Monday, we also mentioned that this story deserved to 
be covered but not sensationalized.
The thing is, it’s kind of edging on the whole sensationalized 
thing right now.
We understand students are passionate about their opinions 
on this matter. We are happy to give them a platform: from our columnists expressing their voices on the situation, to readers writing in and telling us what they think. 
What we want to do right now is remind everyone this 
should not be sensationalized. When we latch onto a speciﬁ  c media topic — let’s use Hillary Clinton’s emails and President Donald Trump’s tax returns as an example — it can turn into a frenzy, where we expect big results from small things. When both those came out (Trump’s tax returns on the “Rachel Mad-dow Show” on Tuesday night), it became achingly clear the underlying problems were not going to be ﬁ  xed by one action. We have latched onto the hot topic, we made it into the ultimate end all be all, and then when we ﬁ  nally got our hands on what we thought we wanted, nothing became resolved.
The problem here isn’t solely Meyers not resigning. It’s the 
whole complex system of entitlement, party vs. Student Body loyalty and a lack of transparency from SG. Most of us realize that, but we’re at a dangerous tipping point where we’re mak-ing this more about individuals and their feelings, not the whole system at fault. 
Yes, Meyers’ actions are an issue and reﬂ  ect badly on our 
school. In our opinion, he should do more than offer an apol-ogy.
That’s not going to ﬁ  x the underlying problem. If he resigns, 
someone else will take his place. It might be a victory — maybe 
this will force higher expectations on SG and compel them to 
listen to the majority of the Student Body. But it might just be a bandage on a gaping wound that needs some serious stitches. 
We hope this is going to be the last editorial on Meyers for 
the week. 
But we know it will not be the last one on having higher 
expectations for SG, a need to revitalize our election system, the one-party domination, the discontent of the majority of the Student Body and the desire for more transparency between our 
elected ofﬁ  cials and the rest of us.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Cuban festival showcases art, culture
It will put on the play ‘My Little Sister, ’ pg. 10THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
City and Colour to do Gainesville show
He will play at the Florida Theatre on Sunday,  pg. 9By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Bass-heavy artists Eptic, Must 
Die! and Gentlemens Club are set to welcome students back from Spring Break with a concert to-night at the Florida Theatre, locat-ed at 233 W. University Ave.
The concert will be the ﬁ  rst 
time any of the artists have played in Gainesville. It will also kickoff 
the producers’ massive U.S. spring 
tour, which will take them from Boston to San Francisco, and ev-erywhere in between.
Matt Collins, the head promot-
er and owner of Lucid Nightlife, said he became aware of Gaines-ville’s interest in Eptic after post-ing on the Gainesville Electronic 
Dance Music Community Face-
book page asking members what 
artists they’d be interested in see-ing. This became more apparent after Getter, another bass-heavy 
artist blowing up in the electron-
ic world, performed for a large 
crowd in September.
“Eptic’s name came up a lot 
early fall when I did that,” Collins said. “We haven’t had too many bass-heavy shows, but after the Getter show it kind of opened our eyes to, ‘Hey, this town, especially the 18 to 21 crowd, they really like trap music.’”
Collins said the Lucid Night-
life team realized the growth the Gainesville electronic market had attained after they brought Her-mitude, a duo hailing from New South Wales, Australia to the Flor-ida Theatre in July 2016. Despite taking the risk of bringing an artist 
during the Summer when substan-
tially less students are on campus, 
the show was packed with about 
700 people in attendance.
“Once we did that, we saw a 
huge presence,” Collins said. “The incoming freshman class seemed 
more into the music than previous 
classes had been the past couple of years. From that show we kind 
of thought, ‘If we can do a 6,700 
person show in the middle of 
Summer, we can push the enve-lope when everyone’s here.’”
Since then, Lucid Nightlife has been booking huge names of all genres, including future house superstar Tchami, a French pro-
ducer who has headlined festivals 
from Something Wonderful to 
Spring Weekend.
Collins said booking Tchami 
was a big step for Lucid Nightlife, 
especially because they began talk-
ing with the producer more than 
six months prior to the event. The 
show, which was also held at the Florida Theatre on Feb. 4, 2016, 
sold out with more than 1,000 
people in attendance.  Although 
tonight’s show isn’t expected to sell the same volume of tickets, all of the artists performing are set to bring powerhouse sound guaran-teed to get the crowd moving.
Eptic exploded on the scene 
back in 2012, at the age of 18, with his “Like A Boss” extended play. 
The heavy-hitting, four-song col-
lection of tracks remained on the Beatport Top 5 chart for weeks, 
and it still gets people moving to 
this day. The artist hasn’t lost mo-
mentum since then, releasing an 
equally gritty dubstep track titled “Flesh Eaters” on March 10.
Collins said the Eptic show is 
just one part of the growth Lucid Nightlife experienced over the past three years. Over this time, he and the Lucid Nightlife team created a community of concert-goers who attend shows no matter who the headliner is.  
“At this point, people are kind 
of going to shows who don’t even 
know these artists,” he said. “It’s 
deﬁ  nitely awesome that the com-munity has entrusted us and sup-
ported us the whole time.”
The show, which is presented 
by local event-planning company 
Lucid Nightlife and Orlando-based company Alliance Events, will 
take place from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Mhkaz, a producer based out of 
Orlando, will be providing open-ing support. Tickets range from $10 to $15. 
Electronic artists Eptic, Must Die!, more to perform tonight
MUSIC
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
If you’re graduating this semes-
ter, and you’re like me, you’re start-
ing to panic about leaving behind everything Gainesville has to offer. Coming back from Spring Break 
made that impending diploma seem 
way too real, and now you may be looking to pack in everything you’ve wanted to do over the last four years into the last six weeks. Lucky for you, I’m here to round up all of the must-do activities you need to check off your bucket list before the end of April. Devil’s Den Spring — Located 
in Williston, Florida, Devil’s Den 
Spring is one of the hidden gems 
of this area and a quick trip from Gainesville. Rental equipment is available for scuba diving and snor-keling for those looking to do more than just swim around. The water is 72 degrees year-round, and the views of the spring are stunning, so it’s deﬁ  nitely worth the trip. 
Bob’s River Place — Bob’s 
River Place, located along the Su-wannee River, is basically a water park set up in a guy’s backyard. That isn’t a great way to sell it, but it is super fun and pretty cheap at just $25 per car. There’s tons of water slides, rope swings, ﬂ  oating 
docks and kid’s water games, so no 
matter what kind of activity you’re looking for, Bob’s has it. It’s about an hour drive from Gainesville and something you deﬁ  nitely want to experience before you leave town. 
Paynes Prairie — Paynes Prai-
rie is absolutely something every-one needs to experience while liv-
ing in Gainesville. It’s great for a 
day out biking or just going for a nice walk. Where else can you see alligators, wild pigs and horses so up close and personal?
The Top — This downtown restaurant is, in my mind, the most classic Gainesville spot and 
one that cannot be missed. It has 
great food, great drinks and a great atmosphere that is all local and of-fers options for any kind of eater. It’s location on North Main Street also allows you to stroll and explore downtown.
Swamp Head Brewery — 
Swamp Head Brewery’s slogan is 
“Inherently Floridian,” and after 
spending an afternoon at the brew-ery, you will deﬁ  nitely agree. It is located off of 34th Street and is situ-ated on a swamp and surrounded by trees. Swamp Head offers great beers and frequently hosts events with food and themed drinks. You 
can sit outside at the tables or right 
on the grass, and it is a great place to relax and grab a great drink. 
Lake Wauburg — Owned by 
UF, Lake Wauburg is free to stu-dents and an absolute must for any-one about to graduate. There are tons of activities, whether you’re looking to kayak, paddleboard, 
wakeboard/water ski, swim or tan. 
They also have barbecues if you’re looking to get your grill on. If some-how you haven’t gone yet, take advantage of one of these beautiful weekends, and go check it out. 
The deﬁ  nitive senior bucket list for your last six weeks
LOCALCourtesy to the Alligator
Eptic, Must Die! and Gentlemens Club, electronic artists known for their bass-heavy sound, will perform at Florida Theatre tonight.
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
Check out these local favorites 
for events worth more than a pot 
of gold Friday. There is plenty 
going on around Gainesville to 
keep you busy all day and night, whether you’re going for the corned beef and cabbage or the 
green beer. 
Durty Nelly’s Irish Pub
Start your celebration off early, 
and check out Durty Nelly’s Irish Pub, located at 208 W. University 
Ave., which will open at 11 a.m. 
to serve a traditional Irish meal.
This pub has been a staple 
in Gainesville for more than 22 
years. Started by an Irish family, 
you’ll get the authentic experi-ence Friday.
Durty Nelly’s will open early 
to serve corned beef and cabbage 
to its loyal customers. The corned beef and cabbage will be served 
with potatoes in a parsley sauce. 
To ﬁ  nish it off, dessert will also 
be provided. The food will be served until supplies run out, so make sure to arrive early to guar-antee you don’t miss out.
The party will be 21 and older 
after 6 p.m., with no cover fee. Musical guest Scuttered the Bruce will provide entertainment start-
ing at 5 p.m.
The green beer will be ﬂ  ow-
ing in copious amounts, and you 
have plenty of time to take advan-tage of the specials before moving 
on to another location for more 
St. Paddy’s Day fun.
Mother’s Pub and Grill
College sports lovers can re-
joice, because Mother’s Pub and Grill, located at 1017 W. Univer-sity Ave., plans to host a St. Pad-dy’s Day Bash with a sprinkle of NCAA ﬁ  rst-round games.Come early and stay late, be-
cause food and drink specials will 
be served all day and night.
On the lower end of the price 
spectrum, you can enjoy $5 bis-
cuits and gravy and $3 green beers.
For those with deeper pockets, 
splurge on the $10 shepherd’s pie or an $8 Irish car bomb. If you’ve never had a car bomb, 
you haven’t properly celebrated 
St. Paddy’s Day. 
This cocktail is made by drop-
ping a shot of Irish cream (like Baileys) and whiskey into a glass 
of stout.
It’s not for the lighthearted, 
but you’re guaranteed to get an 
Irish buzz going.
After enjoying some college 
sports and cheap food, keep it moving to the next St. Pad-dy’s Day celebration location.Block party at The Atlantic 
and Arcade Bar
For those who want to get 
hammered and don’t care about the corned beef, head downtown for your festive ﬁ  x.
The Atlantic, located at 15 N. 
Main St., and Arcade Bar, located at 6 E. University Ave., are host-ing a block party with no cover that will start at 9 p.m.
This 21 and older event is sure 
to be a hit.
With Danny DeVito from “It’s 
Always Sunny in Philadelphia” as their Facebook event photo, ex-
pecting anything less than com-
plete chaos would be an under-statement.
You’ll be able to hide from the 
suddenly cold weather inside The Atlantic or Arcade Bar but still have the option of the real block party experience by heading out-side.Once you’re jolly and wasted, 
play some classic arcade games, 
and wrap your night up around 2 
a.m., when the party is scheduled to end.
—
A true Irishman also knows 
how to satisfy his or her sweet 
tooth, so make sure to stop by 
McDonald’s and get one last Shamrock Shake before they’re gone for the year.
Where to celebrate this St. Patrick’s Day in Gainesville
LOCALTHURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
In his debut Gainesville performance, City and 
Colour is playing at the Florida Theatre on Sunday.
Dallas Green, better known by his stage name 
City and Colour, is a Canadian singer-songwriter 
who plays acoustic and folk music. His alias is a play off of his own name. Dallas, a city, and Green, a color.
Doors of the venue, located at 233 W. Univer-
sity Ave., open at 7 p.m., with the show set to start at 8 p.m. Greyhounds, a band out of Austin, Texas, will open the show.
“It’s not often that you get to bring an artist 
of this caliber to Gainesville for a performance in 
an intimate venue such as Florida Theatre,” said 
Pat Lavery, the event’s promoter. “City and Co-lour typically plays much bigger venues around the world.”
Since 2005, City and Colour released ﬁ  ve al-
bums.
“It will be a very special show for the fans, playing songs from all albums, including a new EP, which was just release online,” Lavery said.
Belle Jampol, a 22-year-old UF advertising se-
nior, ﬁ  rst noticed the event on Facebook. 
“His music is very simple,” she said. “He proves 
that all you really need is a voice and a guitar.”
Jampol saw City and Colour perform at Music 
Midtown in Atlanta last year. At the festival, he didn’t play one of her favorite songs called “The Girl.”
“I feel like I should bring a sign that says, ‘Play 
‘The Girl,’’” she said.
Gainesville is one of the stops on City and Co-
lour’s southeastern U.S. tour, which showcases his latest album, “If I Should Go Before You.” His tour began March 3 in Birmingham, Alabama, and wraps March 23 in Athens, Georgia.    
“I am looking forward to what is sure to be a 
sell-out show,” Lavery said.
Tickets are $34 in advance and $37 the day of 
the show. They can be purchased on ticketﬂ  y.com, at Hear Again Records or at the High Dive Box Ofﬁ  ce.Folk singer City and Colour to 
perform in GNV this weekend
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
City and Colour will perform at Florida Theatre on Sunday. Advance tickets are $34. 
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Ed Sheeran — ‘Divide’
Following the debut of several hit 
singles like “Shape of You” and “Castle 
on the Hill,” Ed Sheeran ﬁ  nally released 
his third album, “Divide,” March 3. Once again, Sheeran produced a per-fect balance of songs that force listen-
ers to either reach for tissues or dance 
to the tunes.
The album approaches topics like 
heartache and love in authentic ways, 
still accompanied by his guitar. “Dive” 
explores the fear of falling in love with 
someone new and the possibility of be-
ing hurt. “Perfect,” a love ballad com-parable to Sheeran’s “Thinking Out Loud,” will make even the most cyni-
cal person hopeful of love with lyrics 
like, “But darling, just kiss me slow, 
your heart is all I own.”
His song “Supermarket Flowers,” 
which was written from his mother’s 
point of view as an ode to his late 
grandmother, tugs at your heart strings 
and offers a unique view at coping with loss.
Sheeran even ﬂ  exes his rapping 
skills in “Eraser,” where he covers the 
struggles of fame, the temptations of 
drug use and loneliness. His attempt at singing a verse in Spanish during the catchy tune “Barcelona” was a success in making girls everywhere swoon.
“Divide” is certainly comparable to 
his other works and is a perfect rep-resentation of Sheeran’s musical skill.
Maggie Rogers — ‘Now That the 
Light is Fading’  
After catching the attention of sing-
er-songwriter Pharrell Williams during a master class at New York University, Maggie Rogers released her ﬁ  rst ex-
tended play, “Now That The Light is 
Fading.”
Rogers’ sound is a blend of elec-
tronic dance music, pop and folk, cu-rating a unique listening experience 
for fans. Her song “Alaska,” which she performed for Williams, is centered around adapting to changes and self-transformation as she sings, “And I walked off the old me.”
Rogers’ music is like an epic collab-
oration of Florence and the Machine, Birdie and Calvin Harris in order to 
create this eclectic sound. This musical 
style is met by Rogers’ diverse vocals, 
which offer the right amount of power 
to compliment the lyrics.
Lorde — ‘Green Light’ and ‘Li-
ability’
It’s been two years since the release 
of the track “Magnets” featuring Lorde and ﬁ  ve since she released music of 
her own, but the wait was well worth 
it.
Lorde released two singles, “Green 
Light” and “Liability,” which offered an updated version to her normal style. 
Unlike her more solemn tone, “Green 
Light,” released March 2, is the up-
lifting breakup song listeners need to 
power through a split. This change in 
sound compliments the lyrics of the 
tune effortlessly.
On the other hand, “Liability,” 
which was released March 9, is the 
somber tempo we are used to from 
Lorde, with a slight twist. The delicate 
piano in the background gave the song 
a light touch, allowing listeners to fo-
cus on the lyrics. The song focuses on 
the torment people face for being dif-
ferent, being labeled as a liability and 
eventually learning to overcome those 
obstacles in order to accept oneself.
Although I have not always been 
a fan of her alternative sound, “Green Light” and “Liability” are more ap-
proachable tracks that allow her to 
retain her originality. Lorde’s progres-
sion and evolution as an artist is deﬁ  -
nitely one to watch as fans wait for the full album “Melodrama” to come out 
June 16.New music you may 
have missed over break 
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Bulla Cubana, a three-month 
festival of Cuban art and cul-
ture, is wrapping up this month 
after putting on events celebrat-
ing the country since January. The festival aims to start cultural conversation between Cuba and 
the North Central Florida region 
through food, ﬁ  lm, music, visual art and the play “My Little Sister.”
Randy Batista, the event’s proj-
ect organizer, has personal ties to 
Cuba as a Cuban-American, and 
he was motivated to both accu-rately honor the rich culture of Cuba, as well as to present to the 
citizens of Gainesville a culture 
that some are being introduced to for the ﬁ  rst time. 
“Everyone, of all ages, have 
been really happy about this fes-
tival, which is a really interesting 
thing in Gainesville, because it’s pretty divided between their se-niors and their students,” Batista 
said. “We really have a great mix 
of both demographics involved in these events, from the Gainesville Orchestra to the different musical or art events we’ve had, we’ve al-
ways had great attendance, which 
is signiﬁ  cant in showing how the events are doing.” 
Batista said he chose 
Gainesville as his festival’s desti-nation because of the rich Cuban and Latin community, as well as the city’s unknowing ties to the country. 
“We went to Cuba with a team 
of other artists who select the artwork that is showing at the Thomas Center right now, it’s 
called ‘2 degrees west, 60 degrees of separation,’” Batista said. “Ha-
vana, Cuba and Gainesville are 
the same longitude, and they’re 
60 degrees of separation on the latitude.”
According to the press release, 
Bulla Cubana is the ﬁ  rst festival 
of its kind to unite the major cre-
ative centers of Gainesville in or-der to showcase Cuba’s art and culture through collaboration. 
The festival includes the alliance 
of artists, muralists, dancers, musicians, restaurants, photog-raphers and ﬁ  lmmakers to accu-rately portray the richness of Cu-
ban culture. 
“If anyone who has traveled 
to Cuba realizes the deprivation 
of supplies and materials that 
Cuba’s had for years and in lieu 
of the lack of goods and necessi-ties, one of the things you real-ize is that they have really stayed faithful to the arts and their cul-
ture,” Batista said. “It’s been the 
dragging force to really keep their dreams alive of being human be-ings in a situation that is not the 
most pleasant one to have existed 
for over 55 years.” 
“My Little Sister” is a play 
written and directed by Cuban-American playwright Carlos Fran-
cisco Asse, an architect who also 
constructed many of the set de-signs for the Hippodrome State Theatre. The play, which tells the 
story of two sisters who still live 
together at ages 85 and 82, is just one of many productions that is featured at Bulla Cabana. 
Janet Cohen, a director and ac-
tress at the Gainesville Commu-nity Playhouse who plays the role of younger sister Nena, said Asse   originally said she was too young for the role. 
“He actually told me I was 
too young to play this old lady, but I’ve had relatives who exhib-ited behavior very similar to my character’s, and I tried to channel those memories,” Cohen said. “I 
kept walking too quickly, sitting 
down too easily, and so I tried to not do a stooped caricature but simply to know what it feels like 
to have nowhere to go day after 
day.”
Cohen, who previously worked 
with Asse in “Agnes of God” and “Lend Me a Tenor” at the play-
house, said it can be both reward-
ing and intimidating to work with someone who has written his or her own work.
“Working with an author 
means that, even more than usu-al, you don’t want to ‘have words left over,’” Cohen said. “That’s a saying from a theater I used to 
work at, that is, you want both 
word and intent to be exact and as he wrote it because, let’s face it, he gave you the gift of the part 
and now you are giving it back to 
him hopefully as he wanted it to be.” 
“My Little Sister,” which is told 
in three scenes and one epilogue, 
depicts the life of these women, 
which from any other writer may have been mundane. 
“The day of these women 
have three highlights, which is breakfast, lunch, dinner and a few perks, the visit of a mail-man, some fresh strawberries, a phone call and that’s it,” Cohen 
said. “However, Mr. Asse wants 
to show us that they had dreams and loves, they have memories, and they can still ﬁ  ght, cry, laugh, sing and even swear. There is not 
an age limit on feeling.”
Cohen, who recently just ﬁ  n-
ished directing “Tshepang” at the 
Actors’ Warehouse, knows ﬁ  rst-
hand Gainesville has a lot to offer 
in terms of culture and art. 
“It amazes me that more 
people don’t take advantage of this wealth of inspiration, and I 
haven’t even mentioned the of-
ferings from the University of Florida and the music scene,” Co-hen said. “So come see ‘My Little Sister,’ and go see as much as you can and as often as you can.” 
“My Little Sister” will run for a 
ﬁ  nal time Monday at 7 p.m. at the Hippodrome.
Bulla Cubana continues 
through the end of March with a collaboration of weekly events that can be seen on its website at bullacubana.org.
Cuban festival Bulla Cubana showcases culture, theatre
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
“My Little Sister, ” a play that tells the story of two sisters in 
their 80s, will be performed at the Hippodrome on Monday.
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Tonight, Gainesville-based sto-
rytelling group Self Narrate will 
be hosting one of its monthly 
meetups at Third House Books & 
Coffee from 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. This event will feature stories told live by Gainesville residents on 
the topic of leaving home. Each 
story will be approximately ﬁ  ve minutes long.
These storytelling meetups are 
held by Self Narrate on the third 
Thursday of every month. The 
ﬁ  rst half of these events feature stories that have already been submitted to the organization, 
while the second half allows audi-
ence members to get up on stage and share their stories in the style of an open-mic night. “Our Storytelling Meetups are 
open to anyone and everyone,” 
said Brandon Telg, Self Narrate’s 
executive director. “We normally have ﬁ  ve to six story submissions sent to us ahead of time, which 
doesn’t ﬁ  ll the entire hour, so 
we open the ﬂ  oor up to anyone in attendance after we’ve gone through our ‘setlist.’”
Self Narrate has been putting 
on events like these since Febru-ary 2014. It all started when the co-founders of the organization, Brandon Telg and Jaron Jones, 
met in a UF graduate course on in-
terpersonal leadership. One of the class’ assignments was to tell a short personal story about some-thing that was signiﬁ  cant to each 
student’s life. After a revelation 
on the importance and catharsis of live storytelling, the two de-cided to organize their own story-telling events, ﬁ  rst around the UF 
campus, then around Gainesville. 
This is how Self Narrate was born. “Sharing your story is a powerful experience and we want every-
one in Gainesville to have the op-
portunity to do that,” Telg said. “There’s no agony like bearing an untold story inside of you.”
While Self Narrate hosts sto-
rytelling meetups monthly, in addition to its pop-up style “My Story Is…” events on Turlington Plaza at 9:30 a.m. every Thurs-
day, the organization also works 
to help marginalized groups in Gainesville. Self Narrate often works with hospitals to provide story development services to pa-
tients to help with their recovery. 
The group also coordinates story-based projects with senior citizens and offers free workshops to stu-dents at elementary, middle and 
high school levels. 
“I have worked at rehab hos-
pitals as an agent of Self Narrate 
to conduct oral histories with re-
hab patients,” said Syraj Syed, a 
regular storyteller with Self Nar-rate. “I value narrative expression in working with patients across spaces like addiction, recovery, 
rehabilitation, mental health 
and with veterans suffering from PTSD.”
Self Narrate aims to emphasize 
the therapeutic effects of telling personal stories. Each storytelling meetup serves as a “safe space” for all members of the community to feel welcome sharing their per-
sonal narratives. All are welcome 
to participate or simply be in the audience. It is a goal of Self Nar-rate to encourage everybody to share a story, as those who put 
this group together believe every-
body has a story to tell. 
“I really think storytelling and 
story hearing is one of the big-
gest missing links in our modern 
world,” said Benny Torres, anoth-er regular Self Narrate storyteller. “I think the only thing that can re-ally break through on a heart-to-
heart level is stories. There have 
never been more ways to tell sto-ries. We just have to imagine our-selves as storytellers and seek out 
the audiences that need to hear 
them.”
Self Narrate’s Storytelling 
Meetups are free and open to the public. For more information on 
Self Narrate’s events, missions 
or its submission guidelines, visit selfnarrate.com.
Gainesville organization creates storytelling meetups
LOCALBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-29-17-55-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
TEACHER FOR 1 yr old & 4 yr old
CLASSES FT/PT. Prefer experience with 45 
DCF hours and a FCCPC. $8.75 - $12 / hr. 
Call 352-375-8900     3-16-5-14
Marketing Representative wanted
Full time. Must me self-motivated and outgo-
ing. Please email resume to:
office@servproacw.com.      3-16-17-5-14Sun Country Sports
is hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14
Designated drivers are the greatestSun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 The Miners of the
Lone Star St.
5 Eurasia’s __
Mountains
9 Fundraising gps.
13 Caesar’s France
14 Marner of fiction16 Hindustani
language
17 What Dobermans
do for dinner?
19 Innocent20 Retro wall unit21 Titanic undoing23 Not very bright24 Super-cold
concoction atBaskin-Robbins?
28 Yale alum31 Longtime
Yankeesannouncer __Allen
32 First to play
James
33 Tall and lean35 “Sadly ... ”38 Box41 World’s
stealthiestdetective?
44 Got out of bed45 “So __ say”46 Crowd-sourced
review site
47 Asian takeout
option
49 Little trickster51 See 56-Down52 Cutest Baby
contest
champion?
57 Security briefing
org.
58 Clothing part that
might split
59 Epic tales
63 Singer James65 Massage
epiphany?
68 Agenda detail
69 Gets mud on70 Phi __ Kappa71 Banks of 2000s
TV talk
72 Doing business73 “The Osbournes”
patriarch
DOWN
1 Brand of
sheepskin boots2 Biting
3 Italian capital
4 Fallback option
5 __ Today
6 Tease
7 “I was out of
town,” e.g.
8 Approach
midnight
9 Place to hoist a
pint
10 DBA followers11 Madison Ave. field12 In-your-face
challenge
15 Feudal laborers
18 Protective barrier
22 El __
25 Authentic
26 Dole out27 Like birds with
worms, so it’ssaid
28 Designer
Schiaparelli
29 Cowardly Lion
portrayer
30 Facing serious
trouble
34 Singer who
formerly stylizedher name with adollar sign36 “__ du lieber!”
37 Yarn purchase39 Squeal
40 Catch sight of
42 Raises
43 Many a gospel
song
48 Brainstorms
50 Uruguayan
money
52 Nail a test
53 Like Oscar 
Wilde54 Mackerel relative55 Beatnik’s “With
ya”
56 Repeating movie
role for 
51-Across
60 “Sheesh!”
61 Animated bug
film
62 Time at a hotel64 Org. for docs66 Pint to drink67 AOL alternative
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/16/1703/16/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 16, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS 
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from April – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-17-17-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
3-24-17-8-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the 
production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Full service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
Divorce - Paternity - Child Support
Sharon L. Neil, Esq.
(352) 494-8848
www.neilcivillaw.com/family-law
3-23-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 15 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     3-27-17-9-14
General maintenance positions available. Light duty - fence work, janitorial, pressure washing, irrigation, etc. Email resume to jobs@mssgainesville.com for consideration. $11-15/hr.         3-21-17-5-14
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports
Alfredo Perez and the Florida men's tennis team is gaining momentum in SEC play. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports T ebow picks up pair of hits for Mets
The former Heisman Trophy winner singled twice in the Mets' spring train-
ing game against the Miami Marlins on Wednesday. With minor league games starting Thursday, it was likely T ebow's last appearance with the MLB club this season. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION 
Because Florida has played elite at times 
this year yet also looked like a drunken frat boy’s sloppy night in Key West, I’ll offer you hope. 
The Gators are the ﬁ  fth-ranked team 
in the country. 
They shut out the second-ranked team Tues-
day and used four freshmen pitchers to do so.
Freshman Nate Brown looked like someone 
who could take a spot in the rotation next year when ace Alex Faedo is drafted.
The electric left-handed Andrew Baker, who 
if he were 6 inches taller would have probably been starting a professional career right now, 
proved he can be reliable option out of the bull-
pen despite little experience.
Tyler Dyson ﬂ  ashed the stuff pro scouts 
salivate at: 96-mph heaters and an effortless de-livery. He also showed he should be Florida’s full-time closer, not the side-arm-tossing Frank Rubio. 
But who cares, right?UF lost to FGCU (twice), UCF 
and Jacksonville. It even dropped one to Seton Hall. 
I’ll tell you who doesn’t care: 
head coach Kevin O’Sullivan. 
OK, maybe he doesn’t not care. 
That’s just not where his focus is. 
When asked after Tuesday 
night’s win how much his guys needed a win like that, he wasn’t concerned with past play. 
“It was important for our young pitchers to go 
out there and do what they did,” he said. “Our young guys are starting to grow up and our bull-pen’s starting to come together.”
As for the problematic offense, give it time.This is a team full of newcomers and play-
ers adapting to new roles and positions. That's true of nearly every spot on the diamond. 
JJ Schwarz now plays ﬁ  rst base, 
not catcher. Everyday centerﬁ  elder Blake Reese is adjusting to full 
season’s workload. Second 
baseman Deacon Liput is still working the kinks out of a new batting stance he developed over the summer. 
Were they all expected to transi-
tion seamlessly?
Fans need to realize this is a different team 
than in past years. 
There’s no Peter Alonso or Mike Zunino or 
Preston Tucker that O’Sullivan can simply plug in the lineup for automatic run support. 
It’s a team constructed around talented arms 
and boy, do they have plenty of those. 
Alex Faedo, UF’s ace, hasn’t allowed a run in his last 21.2 innings. 
He and Florida's two other weekend start-
ers — Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar, who are also ﬁ  rst-round talents — are a combined 8-0 with a 1.68 ERA this year.
And considering Florida ranks among the top 
10 teams in the nation in both ERA and ﬁ  elding percentage, it won’t even need many runs to win games. 
For more reassurance, just look at the 
strengths of the MLB’s past few World Series winners.
The Chicago Cubs in ’16: Starting pitching. The Kansas City Royals in ’15: Relief pitching. 
The San Francisco Giants in ’14: Starting 
pitching.
The same goes for Florida, which will pitch 
well enough to give the bats a chance to catch 
ﬁ  re in the postseason. 
Ultimately, that’s all one can ask for.   Even if the oﬀ  ense doesn’t come around, Florida baseball will be just ﬁ  ne
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
When she’s competing, Alex 
McMurtry feeds off of the ener-gy of her team and the crowd.
But it’s not the only thing 
she eats during Florida’s meets.
The junior is never without 
a Snickers candy bar, which gives her a boost of energy when she needs it most, espe-
cially right before a physically 
demanding ﬂ  oor routine.
“Growing up I started that 
trend, and I’m a pretty supersti-tious person,” McMurtry said on Wednesday. “Even if it’s just a bite, I feel like I have to do it.”
The nougat candy has 
helped shape her into the pre-eminent gymnast on Florida’s 
roster.
During the regular season, 
McMurtry became the ﬁ  rst 
Gator to score a 10.0 on three different events (bars, ﬂ  oor, vault) in a single season, de-
spite only competing all-around 
three times.
She also came within strik-
ing distance of perfection on beam and a coveted gymslam, a perfect 10 in each of the four events, notching three 9.95s on the apparatus.
The Midlothian, Virginia, 
native is hoping to carry that same momentum into the post-season.However, as the Gators will 
be on podium this Saturday at the SEC Gymnastic Champion-ships, another perfect score may be hard to come by for her.
Unlike the regular season, 
teams compete on a raised 
platform — called a podium — 
during the SECs and NCAAs, which is more springy than the concrete ﬂ  oor the equipment usually sits on.
The gymnasts competing 
on ﬂ  oor stand a few feet above their teammates on the sideline.
“The forgiveness that the 
podium gives on the body is fabulous,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “The girls love it. It’s a great opportunity that the girls are showcased one other time. It makes you feel special.”
But while podium training 
isn’t common at the college level, all but one of the Gators, 
the exception being freshman 
Sierra Alexander, are familiar with it.
Freshman Amelia Hundley, 
who is a former U.S. National Team Member, is excited to be back on it in her ﬁ  rst postsea-son appearance.
"I know how to adjust to it," 
she said. "There are little dif-ferences in each event I always know how to accommodate to.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org Gymnastics team 
adjusting to podium  SOFTBALL: GATORS 13, BISON 0
By Skyler Lebron 
Sports Writer 
In the season opener against Illinois State, junior catch-
er Janell Wheaton totalled two hits in three at-bats. But 
over the next 15 games, Wheaton only mustered two hits, and at one point in the season her batting average dipped under .100.
Something changed during the Judi Garman Classic in 
California. 
In her eight outings since, Wheaton has been danger-
ous, earning 10 hits for the Gators. And after Tuesday, that total includes a grand slam against North Dakota State in a mid-week 13-0 walloping delivered by the Gators.
“I thought the conﬁ  dence went away from her a little 
bit,” Florida coach Tim Walton said. 
“I deﬁ  nitely could see that Janell is gaining her conﬁ  -
dence.” 
With the victory, Florida (23-1, 2-0 SEC) has now shut 
out 16 of its 24 opponents and is on a 15-game winning streak. 
The scoring started in a hurry in the bottom of the sec-
ond due to early mistakes by NDSU (10-15). UF  shuts out North Dakota State  
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16
Alligator File Photo
Janell Wheaton bats during Florida's 11-0 win over Alabama State on May 20, 2016, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. when his dad called timeout.
His mom said Justin would 
jump up and break the hoops often 
enough  that he had to ask for a new one every Christmas.
“We bought so many of those, I 
should’ve been a part-time owner,” she joked.
Basketball kept making sense as 
he grew taller.
Today, he’s 6-foot-8 — about 8 
inches taller than his dad who also played basketball.
“By the time he got to seventh 
grade, I was hugging his hips,” his 
dad said.
•   •   •
Obstacles were thrown at Justin 
as he grew up. 
His parents split up before high 
school. 
“When that happens,” Justin said, 
“there’s not a lot of money between 
one parent for three kids.” 
He saw his mom pick up a second 
job. As a certiﬁ  ed nursing assistant, she went to the homes of seniors and helped provide medical care. 
She said she worked two jobs so 
her kids wouldn’t feel like they were living in a one-parent household.
Issues at home led to issues at 
school.
In one of his ﬁ  rst high school sea-
sons, he was nearly forced to miss an entire year because of grades. He had to meet with teachers, taking tests one-on-one to boost his GPA to where he could get back on the team. 
As he developed as a player, his 
recruiting prospects suffered because his high school coach played him out of position. 
His mom’s mission was in jeop-
ardy. How could he avoid working in a factory if he was never offered a college education?
“We had a hard time on the schol-
arship,” she said. “He really wasn’t 
getting looked at like we hoped.”
•   •   •
Around the same time, John 
Sparks got a call about a skinny kid 
in Conway, Arkansas. 
Sparks, coach of Shawnee Com-munity College, drove ﬁ  ve hours to Conway for Justin’s next game. 
“I see this long, really thin kid,” 
Sparks said. “He missed a free throw, and before anybody could move, he 
came down the lane and tip-dunked 
it on about three guys.”
That’s when Justin got his only 
offer out of high school. 
Sparks asked him to play for 
Shawnee in Ullin, Illinois — a town with a population of about 500 if you don’t count the deer, chickens and geese.
“It was like — free school, so ob-
viously, why not?” Justin said. 
Justin accepted Sparks’ offer and 
excelled right away.
“We thought he’d be good,” 
Sparks said. “We didn’t know he was going to be as good as he ended up being.”
His mom’s work ethic carried him 
to success on the court. 
When class was canceled, Justin 
came back to the gym for a second workout. 
He hated coming out of drills in 
practice. 
In games, stat lines like 25 points 
and 19 rebounds were standard for him. Which made it strange when he 
wasn’t invited to a top 100 showcase 
for the best junior college players. 
Sparks knew Justin needed to 
create some buzz before graduating from the two-year college, so he con-tacted the camp ofﬁ  cials. 
“He’s too thin,” they told Sparks. 
“We don’t wanna hurt his recruiting. We’d have to play him on the perim-
eter.” 
Sparks didn’t buy it. 
“You can play him in Afghani-
stan,” he said. “Doesn’t matter. Jus-tin Leon is gonna play.”
When they let Justin come to the 
camp, he proved to be one of the top players.
After that, during his sophomore 
season at Shawnee, ﬁ  nally, Division I teams were going after him. 
His mom was overwhelmed with 
the 20 calls a day Justin was getting.
“It was just heartwarming,” Jus-
tin said, “because I’m like, ‘Man, ﬁ  nally, all these times. Blood, sweat and tears I done left out on the ﬂ  oor, and daylight is starting to come.’” 
Eventually Justin decided on Lou-isiana Tech. He liked the coaches, Mike White and Dusty May, who had driven to Ullin just to see him.
White and May got lost on a dirt 
road looking for the college. 
“In the middle of just desolation is 
a campus, a little pond lake … that’s it,” May said.
After getting to know the coach-
ing staff, Justin signed his National Letter of Intent for LA Tech on April 15, 2015.
“To me, getting recruited by Loui-
siana Tech felt like I was getting re-
cruited by Florida,” Justin said. 
•   •   •
Justin’s peace of mind was cut 
short when he got a call from a 
friend. 
His friend told Justin that some-
one on ESPN said White was candi-
date for UF’s head coaching job.
Justin asked White about the 
news. 
“I don’t know if coach White was 
able to talk to me,” Justin said, “be-
cause I asked him about it.” 
No response. UF announced that White would 
be the new head coach for the men’s 
basketball on May 7, 2015.
Justin had signed with LA Tech 
speciﬁ  cally for the coaches, and now 
his family was left hanging. 
“We didn’t know what we were 
gonna do,” his mom said. 
Sparks said Justin had turned 
down offers from schools like Ole Miss, Kansas State and Indiana spe-
ciﬁ  cally because of his relationship 
with White and May. 
May said they couldn’t contact 
him because he had committed to LA Tech.
May got phone call from Sparks. “Hey, J doesn’t really know 
what’s going on, he’s kind of in limbo,” Sparks told him.
May didn’t know what to say.“It was kind of just left open 
ended,” May said. 
Justin rescinded his letter of in-
tent and was courted by more col-leges.
His phone was ringing again, but 
Justin couldn’t visit any schools.
“We couldn’t visit because we 
couldn’t take three or four days to go visit somewhere (while) we gotta pass biology and English,” Sparks said. 
Since Justin wasn’t able to gradu-
ate in spring, he’d have to take sum-mer classes while juggling his future. 
Then Florida called. It had another scholarship. “As soon as we were able to 
call him again, he knew we wanted him,” May said. 
Justin committed to White and 
May for a second time on June 8, 
2015.
But he still had to deal with what 
Sparks called the most trying time in 
his life. 
He still had to graduate. “If he wouldn’t have passed those 
classes, I don’t know if he would’ve had to sit out or what,” Sparks said. “But he wouldn’t have played last year at Florida.”
So for eight weeks during sum-
mer school, Justin endured tutoring four or ﬁ  ve days a week. He passed with a high enough GPA in August. 
But again, his comfort was brief.Because now he was about to 
play for a Division I program after having missed an entire summer of individual workouts, strength train-ing and getting to know White’s sys-tem. 
“He came in behind in all areas,” 
May said. 
Justin used his mom’s work ethic 
to catch up.
“This is my 17th year coaching,” 
White said, “and he’s the hardest-playing player I’ve ever coached, hands down.”
•   •   •
Justin Leon has gone from a high 
school center with one community college offer to a starting forward on a top-20 team. From struggling in school to studying at UF. From get-
ting snubbed at a showcase to play-
ing in March Madness.
“I don’t know why he’s had to 
take the hard road,” his mom said. 
But she believes everything hap-
pens for a reason. Justin learned that 
from watching her work 12-hour days in the factory. 
“Seeing that as I grew up just 
showed me to keep working hard, and there’ll be brighter days,” Justin said. “Eventually good things will 
happen.” SPORTS,  from pg1Mike White: ‘He’s the hardest-playing player I’ve ever coached’
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Justin Leon looks on in UF’s win on Feb. 2 in the O’Connell Center.
THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
•   •   •16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 2017
Two hit batters by Bison sopho-
more pitcher Jacquelyn Sertic and 
a sacriﬁ  ce hit by junior Aleshia Ocasio left runners on second and 
third. An error then allowed senior 
outﬁ  elder Chelsea Herndon to bring 
the two runners home, giving the Gators an early lead. 
In the following inning, a dou-
ble to left ﬁ  eld from junior second 
baseman Nicole DeWitt scored Kay-
li Kvistad to extend the lead to 3-0. 
But the fourth inning was when Florida wreaked havoc. The Gators scored 10 runs in the inning, start-ing with the grand slam by Whea-ton.
“After the ﬁ  rst at-bat, I was a 
little mad at myself for not being as 
aggressive as I should be,” Whea-
ton said. “Seeing a ball like that, it’s awesome. There’s no better feeling.” 
Following Wheaton's slam, 
Aleshia Ocasio used a two-RBI sin-gle to get on base, and on the next at-bat, a three-run shot by Herndon brought the lead to double digits at 
12-0. Florida wasn’t done there. A few 
batters later, Wheaton, who started 
off the scoring in the inning, ended the day's tally with an RBI single that gave the Gators a comfortable 13-0 cushion. 
Florida’s pitching, meanwhile, 
was split between Ocasio and fresh-man Katie Chronister, who made her ﬁ  fth appearance of the year. 
After Ocasio pitched three in-
nings,  gave up three hits and struck out three batters, Chronister was tasked with the save. 
The freshman went to work, not 
allowing any hits for the 10 batters she faced over the course of two in-nings. 
The win got the Gainesville na-
tive her second save on the year. 
Overall, the Gators played a 
well-balanced game on offense 
and defense. The offensive power 
from Wheaton and Herndon, who combined to go 6-for-7 and earn 10 RBIs, showcased the versatility of 
Florida’s offense.
“We’re only gonna be as good as 
whoever hits behind Kayli Kvistad, 
and in that situation, I think they had nice at-bats,” Walton said. 
The Gators now get a day of rest before hitting the road for an SEC battle with the South Carolina Gamecocks, which will kick off sev-en straight weekend series against SEC opponents. 
“It’s almost some momentum 
going into South Carolina,” Hern-don said of the win. 
“Everyone had good at-bats so 
they can carry that into the next 
weekend feeling a bit more conﬁ  -
dent.” 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org  
SOFTBALL,  from pg14Gainesville native Katie Chronister earned her second save