We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 110 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
UF hoping to stay hot
The Florida men’s basketball team plays
Kentucky on Saturday, pg. 13
MCSO: Teachers arrested for touching students
Two Marion County Public Schools teachers innapropriately touched students, deputies say, pg. 3
UF hires former CNN reporter
She will teach Spanish-language media and lead Noticias WUFT, pg. 8FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Last week, Austin Ward had 
eight exams over a five-day 
stretch.
The UF civil engineering 
sophomore is taking six classes this semester, and he’s over-
whelmed.
In the thick of his midterms, 
he tried to book an appointment 
with the UF Counseling and Well-ness Center — but they told him 
he couldn’t be treated until next 
semester, as the center’s waiting 
list was filled with the names of 77 others seeking treatment.
“I essentially wasted my 
time,” the 19-year-old said. 
To keep up with a growing 
demand, the center is currently seeking funding from the Florida 
Legislature to increase the num-
ber of clinicians.
Ernesto Escoto, the director of the center, said this problem is not exclusive to UF; it’s happen-
ing across the state.
In Fall of 2016, all 13 Florida 
public universities submitted a 
$14 million legislative budget 
request to the Florida Board of 
Governors to increase funding 
for the universities’ counseling 
centers, Escoto said.
If approved, UF would get 
$2.2 million to hire 21 clinicians.The International Association 
of Counseling Services, which 
accredits the UF center, recom-
mends one clinician for every 
1,000 to 1,500 students at the 
university. 
With 33 full-time clinicians, 
one for every 1,546 students, UF 
fails to meet the quota, Escoto said.
If the Board of Governors ap-Depleted UF counseling center asks for state funding
GAINESVILLE’S PUBLIC 
SCHOOLS RESPECT 
BATHROOM CHOICE.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite the revocation of a 
memorandum allowing transgen-
der students in public schools to 
use the bathroom of their choice, 
Gainesville remains a sanctuary, Mayor Lauren Poe said Thursday.
Poe took to Facebook to re-
buke the decision on Wednesday after President Donald Trump moved to immediately roll back guidance made by former Presi-dent Barack Obama that urged 
public schools to accommodate 
their students or risk funding slashes.
“If you are trans and feeling 
under threat, come to Gainesville. We respect you, love you and if need-be, we will protect you,” 
Poe wrote on his Facebook page.
Transgender students at pub-
lic schools in Gainesville will 
always be allowed to use which-
ever bathroom they identify with, Poe said. 
He said he wants to remind 
everyone in Gainesville that the 
city includes transgender people 
in its civil rights ordinance, and it is illegal to discriminate against any person.
“You cannot tell people they 
can or cannot use the restroom of their identity,” Poe said.
Nate Quinn, a transgender Poe rebukes Trump’s 
transgender order
A TOWN HALL MEETING 
BETWEEN YOHO, PRO-TESTERS WILL BE ON
MARCH 4.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Andrea Berteit felt more comfort-able growing up in East Berlin in 
the ’80s than she does living under  
President Donald Trump’s adminis-
tration.
That’s why she protests at Florida 
Rep. Ted Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce every Tues-day alongside hundreds of other ac-tivists.
The 52-year-old German green 
card holder moved to Gainesville six years ago when her husband was hired at UF. Berteit and her family 
will apply for citizenship in April, 
but none of them like the idea of becoming citizens of a country that doesn’t value immigrants and won’t implement a universal health-care system.
One afternoon every week, 
Berteit rallies protesters at Yoho’s Gainesville ofﬁ  ce to show her chil-dren that the U.S., their new home, 
has the potential to be great — it just 
isn’t right now.
Yoho, a Republican serving North 
Central Florida’s 3rd Congressional District, was elected in 2012 and is currently serving his second term in the U.S. House of Representatives.
In the most recent election cycle, he ran on a platform that supports the removal of the Affordable Care 
Act, commonly known as Obam-
acare, said Brian Kaveney, a spokes-man for Yoho. An ardent supporter of Trump, Yoho also spoke at the then-candidates campaign rally in Ocala.
Following Trump’s inaugura-
Under Trump, Gainesville residents double as protestersSEE COUNSELING,  PAGE 4
SEE TRANSGENDER,  PAGE 4
SEE PROTESTERS,  PAGE 4“You cannot tell people 
they can or cannot use the 
restroom of their identity.”
Lauren Poe
Gainesville MayorLOCALAppointments are backed up into Fall
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
DIPLOMAT DATES
From left: Joanne Marquez, an 18-year-old UF psychology sophomore, and Nicole Fox, a 19-year-old 
UF psychology sophomore, chat on a “Buddy Date” for Campus Diplomats. “All the people from my class have been paired up with people from the new class to get to know them, ” Fox said. “It’s something we do every month. ”
FEATURESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 110
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING? 
‘On the Edge: What Future for the 
African Sahel?’ 
Join the UF Sahel Research Group for the 2017 Gwendolen M. Carter Conference in African American 
Studies today through Sunday in 
the Reitz Union. The conference is free and open to the public, but advance registration is requested. For more information, visit sahel-research.africa.ufl.edu.
Gay Movie Night: ‘People You 
May Know’
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Pride Community Center of North 
Central Florida, located at 3131 NW 13th St., there will be a showing of the movie “People You May Know.” Gay Movie 
Night is on the last Friday of ev-
ery month. A $2 donation is re-quested to help cover the cost of snacks.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Marion County Public Schools teach-
ers were arrested this week for inappropriate-
ly touching students, the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce said.
Timothy Cooke, 58, was arrested Wednes-
day after grabbing a female student by the 
buttocks on Jan. 19 at Ocala’s Lake Weir High 
School, according to an arrest report. When 
she tried to move away, Cooke grabbed her 
and pulled her back.
Police have investigated 
Cooke ﬁ  ve times for simple 
battery of high-school stu-
dents since 2009, accord-
ing to a press release. In 
December, another student 
said Cooke had wrapped 
his arm around her and 
placed his hand on her 
breast, according to an arrest report. 
Marion County Public Schools ﬁ  red him 
Wednesday, according to the release.
Chester Pacana was arrested Monday 
for touching a 15-year-old female student in his classroom on Feb. 8 at Dunnellon High 
School, according a press release. 
Jenn Sewell, a mother of two Lake Weir 
High School students, said she heard rumors 
about Cooke before his arrest. Her daughter, 
a sophomore, felt uncomfortable in class with 
Cooke.
“I am glad that he isn’t going to be at 
school anymore, but I want to know what 
Marion County is going to do about this in the 
future,” Sewell said.
Police questioned Cooke 
about the January incident, 
according to the report. 
“If she said I touched her 
maybe I did,” he respond-
ed, according to the report.
Police arrested Cooke 
on two charges of battery. 
Pacana was arrested on a 
charge of lewd and lascivi-
ous molestation, according to the press re-
lease. Both were taken to the Marion County 
Jail. Cooke was released Thursday on a $2,000 
bond and Pacana was released Monday on a 
$5,000 bond.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in 
support of our students, who learn about various aspects of 
the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
MCSO: Two Marion County 
teachers touched students
THEY ARE COLLECTING CANNED 
GOODS AND CLOTHING.
By Brooke Henderson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF fraternity will play games, grill food 
and collect clothing Saturday for Gainesville’s 
homeless community.
The Theta Sigma chapter of the Alpha Phi 
Alpha Fraternity is hosting the event, which 
aims to raise canned goods, clothing and 
awareness for the homeless community, said 
Ivens Applyrs, assistant director for the event. 
The Golden Night of Unity event will begin at 
8 p.m. in the Fine Arts Courtyard on campus. 
All donations will be taken to St Francis 
House, located at 413 S. Main St., a homeless 
shelter in downtown Gainesville, the 23-year-
old UF computer engineering senior said. 
There are more than 1,300 people living in 
homelessness in the county, according to the 
Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless 
and Hungry.
“I have met individuals who were once lawyers, doctors or professors, but due to 
an unexpected situation found themselves in 
their present situation,” Applyrs wrote in an 
email. 
He hopes this event will create an increase 
in understanding for the homeless population.
“I believe that a lot of issues arise because 
of the absence of love,” Applyrs said. “That is 
the key ingredient in understanding and sup-
porting one another.”
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst homelessness-awareness 
event hosted by the fraternity at UF, he said. 
In 2002, the fraternity created a Sleep Out for 
the Homeless event where people camped 
out on Turlington Plaza in solidarity with the 
homeless community, which evolved into the 
block-party-style event that will take place 
this weekend, Applyrs said.
Garrison Rolle, the director of the event, 
said he feels it’s important to recognize any-
one can be affected by homelessness.
“The emotions and hardships are relatable 
no matter who you are,” the 20-year-old UF 
sport management sophomore said. “We just 
wanted everyone to receive that opportunity 
to relate and connect.”UF fraternity to host party, 
collect goods for homelessBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite what some wish to think, 
it is possible to believe in both sci-
ence and religion.
A chemistry professor from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy said so on Thursday.
Following an introduction from 
UF Kent Fuchs, a man who has spe-
cialized in both theology and engi-
neering, MIT professor Troy Van Voorhis addressed a crowd of about 
900 inside UF’s University Audito-
rium. He discussed how science and 
faith were not mutually exclusive as 
a part of an event called Is Science 
Enough?
During the third annual speaker 
series, Fuchs said in a video before 
the speech that students had a rare 
opportunity to discuss issues that 
were being talked about nationally 
today.
“This forum could not be more timely,” Fuchs said.
Voorhis said although he studies 
science for a living, it may not an-
swer all questions.
“We are left with a feeling that 
there must be something more,” he 
said.
Christianity doesn’t limit whether 
a person can believe in controversial 
topics like abortion or gay rights, he 
added.
“There is a myth that believing 
Christianity means you can’t believe in ﬁ  ll-in-the-blank with whatever 
controversial topic,” he said.
After his 40-minute talk, Van 
Voorhis took questions that students 
texted in.
Franklyn Francois, who helped 
organize the event, said it allowed 
for a discussion that doesn’t occur 
often on college campuses.
“We want to give academia and 
faith a space to discuss heavier top-
ics,” he said. “We want to bring the 
two worlds together and show they 
are not mutually exclusive.”
UF accounting sophomore Alex 
Melton said he was excited to hear Van Voorhis after his friend at MIT 
told him about the professor.
“I found him really entertaining 
and engaging,” the 20-year-old said. 
Holli Capps, a UF environmental 
science sophomore, said she chose 
her major because God put her there.
“That ﬁ  eld needs more of a Chris-
tian voice,” the 20-year-old said. 
She said she heard about the 
event from a ﬂ  ier her academic ad-
viser emailed out.
“I don’t understand why science 
and faith have to be separate,” she 
said. MIT professor discusses how science, faith can coexist
Pacana
Cooke
He said the two were not exclusive4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
student at UF, said although he 
expected Trump to revoke the de-cision, he wasn’t expecting it to happen so quickly.
“It makes me worried, it 
makes me scared,” the 18-year-old UF psychology freshman said. “Obama being supportive of trans students was a good step in the right direction, and was a good start for equality in public schools. For Trump to get rid of that so easily, it’s very hard.”
Quinn, who has been work-
ing to promote equal rights for transgender students in pub-
lic schools, said Trump’s latest 
move has completely reversed 
any progress he’s made as an ac-tivist.
“We were moving forward,” 
he said. “Now, we’re at a stand-still.”
UF law student Benny Me-
naged said although he’s discour-
aged by Trump’s latest actions, 
he’s hoping the courts will give transgender Americans the pro-
tection he said they deserve.
Menaged, the former presi-
dent of the LGBTQ+ legal orga-
nization OUTLaw, also accused Trump of making empty cam-paign promises to protect trans-gendered citizens.
“During Trump’s campaign, 
he made statements saying he would assure the rights of the LG-BTQ community,” Menaged said. “Doing this is one of the worse things you could do to transgen-der children in our country, so that’s disappointing.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgTRANSGENDER,  from pg.1Students said Trump’s 
move is a step back
proves the funding, Gov. Rick 
Scott will have to sign off on it. 
If so, the universities will get 
the money June 1, he said. 
But it would take much longer 
to fix the problem, he said.The state universities need to 
hire 133 clinicians in total, he said.
“The entire state will be look-
ing for psychologists, so I don’t expect that we’ll fill all positions on the first search,” Escoto said.
He said the center should 
be able to hire all clinicians by Spring 2018 or Fall 2019 if it gets funding for their salaries.
Meanwhile, demand continue 
to increase. 
In 2016, 47,000 students vis-
ited the UF center, he said. But as the stigma surrounding men-tal health decreases, Escoto ex-pects a 3- to 5-percent increase this year.
About 25 percent of students 
at UF have been treated with 
medication for mental-health is-
sues at some point in their life, he said. 
But for students like Ward, 
new clinicians won’t be here fast enough for them to talk to a counselor when they need it. 
“They advertise that whole ‘U 
Matter, We Care,’ and they say 
that’s a resource we have, but 
we don’t,” Ward said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
tion, local activist groups have con-sistently visited the congressman’s office to demonstrate their dissatis-faction with his continuous support of Trump’s policies, including the 
temporary immigration ban and the 
proposed repeal and replacement of Obamacare, Berteit said.
She said her 16-year-old son, a 
sophomore at Eastside High School, 
feels that America’s democracy is slowly coming apart at the hands of selfish and unqualified leaders.“I want to show him that this 
country has such great potential, such a great foundation,” Berteit said.
Although she hasn’t been able 
to participate in a U.S. election, she believes applying constant pressure through calling, visiting and writing to local politicians is the only way to create change in Washington, D.C.
“It’s (Yoho’s) responsibility to at 
least demonstrate that he converses with all of us, that he takes the dili
-
gence to reflect on everyone’s point of view and that he then goes and represents that at congress,” she said.Yoho agreed to hold a town hall 
meeting with the community. It will take place March 4 at Countryside Baptist Church, located at 10926 NW 39th Ave., at 10 a.m.
“I hear what they are saying and 
that everyone has the right to petition their representative for a redress of grievances,” Yoho wrote in an email. “I do feel that it is realistic for indi
-
viduals, who don’t share the same political philosophy as me, to exer
-
cise their First Amendment rights and I support that.”
The meeting will allow commu
-
nity members to ask Yoho specific questions about the policies he sup -
ports, Kaveney said.
“Just like at any town hall, you 
hope it doesn’t get out of hand,” Ka -
veney said. “If people just show up and yell at him, and shout him down like you see on the news, that’s not helping anybody.”
Republican politicians are feeling 
the wrath of liberal constituents at 
frequent and confrontational town 
hall meetings across the country, ac
-
cording to The Washington Post.
Many protesters believe Yoho is 
complacent in supporting Trump and sticks strictly to his Republican party lines.
Yoho said he has stood against his 
own party leadership in the past.
“I will stand against anyone who 
doesn’t defend our Constitution, re
-
gardless of their party affiliation,” he said.
However, that response isn’t 
enough to placate Joy Pitts.
Pitts, 34, began the Gainesville 
chapter of Indivisible, a national movement that encourages Ameri
-
cans to resist policies that Trump’s administration puts forth. Within a week, the chapter had 1,000 mem
-
bers.
“We need to be engaged, we need 
to hold people accountable, we need to make change from the bottom up,” she said.
At the town hall meeting next 
week, Pitts will ask Yoho what it will take for him to stand up to the presi
-dent. Although she doesn’t know how many seats the venue has, she expects hundreds of people to show up.
“I don’t think we’ll change his 
policy. I’m realistic,” Pitts said. “But it’s definitely getting under his skin.”
Pitts said most members of 
Gainesville’s Indivisible are spending between 40 and 50 hours a week to make sure people like Yoho don’t get reelected.
But, not everyone in Gainesville 
disapproves of the congressman’s political stance.
Jack Gregory, 20, said he supports 
Trump and the removal of Obam
-
acare, but believes if some of Yoho’s constituents are discouraged, they should make it known.
“I absolutely believe in the right 
to peacefully protest. I think it’s very 
important for them to have the abil
-
ity to voice their opinion,” the UF 
mechanical engineering junior said. “However, I think there are much better uses of their time.”
Gregory believes the 50 hours 
Pitts dedicates to organizing protests each week could be used to raise money for other political or environ
-
mental organizations.
“There’s plenty of places you can 
volunteer and fundraise for, where you’ll actually make a difference with those goals,” he said. “But I 
absolutely believe they should keep 
fighting for what they believe in.”
@molly_vosslerCOUNSELING,  from pg.1
PROTESTERS,  from pg.1The UF center needs funding to hire hire 21 new counselors
Yoho will hold a town hall meeting at 10 a.m. on March 4
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Protesters gather outside Florida Rep. T ed Yoho’s Gainesville office on Feb. 14 to  demand a town hall meeting.
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
ART HALL OF FAME
Don Felder receives his statue from Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner at the Florida Artists Hall 
of Fame induction. The ceremony was held at the Historic Thomas Center in downtown Gainesville on Thursday evening. 
STUDENT GPAS IN IFC 
FRATERNITIES ARE 
SLIGHTL Y HIGHER 
THAN THOSE OF 
NON-GREEK MALES.
By Michael Smith
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Interfraternity Council was 
recognized for their academic suc-
cess Saturday.
The Southeastern Interfraternity 
Conference, made up of more than 65 fraternity-governing councils in the U.S., awarded the UF group the Excellence in Academic and Schol-
arship Programming Award at the 
SEIFC’s Annual Leadership Acade-
my, said Simonne Horman, the as-sistant director of UF Sorority and Fraternity Affairs.
The council received the award 
for holding students to high aca-demic standards and providing op-portunities for students to improve their school performance, Horman 
said. 
The UF IFC is comprised of 26 
fraternity chapters, and it applied 
for the award in November, she said.
Shane Hanney, UF IFC’s presi-dent and the former president of the Theta Chi Fraternity’s UF chap-
ter, said the IFC requires members 
to have a minimum grade point av-
erage of 3.0. 
UF Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw announced that IFC students received the award on Twitter on 
Sunday, saying that “Greek male 
GPA is stronger than non-Greek.”
In Fall 2016, the semester GPA 
for male UF students was 3.11, while the GPA for IFC members 
was 3.20, according to data from 
UF Sorority and Fraternity Affairs. 
However, in Spring 2016, the se-
mester GPA for male UF students was 3.26, and the GPA for IFC stu-dents was 3.25, according to the data.
Since 2010, the GPA for IFC stu-
dents has been slightly above the GPA of non-Greek male students, with the exception of three Fall or Spring semesters.
Of all fraternities in UF’s IFC, 
the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity had the highest semester GPAs in Spring 2016 and Fall 2016: 3.55 and 3.41, respectively. 
Aaron Blau, the UF chapter’s 
president, said the fraternity’s suc-cess is due to its supportive envi-ronment.
“The culture of the organization 
is really key,” the 20-year-old UF ﬁ  -nance sophomore said. “My broth-ers are really important to holding me to higher standards.”
Hanney, a 20-year-old UF civil 
engineering junior, said he was grateful UF’s IFC was recognized for its members’ scholastic achieve-ment, despite the stigma against fraternities. 
“The ﬁ  rst thing you think of 
when you think of a fraternity isn’t academics,” he said. “But it’s one of the main things we focus on from day one.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
SEVENTEEN STUDENTS WENT TO 
THE  PROTEST TO RECORD IT.
By Dominique T orres
Alligator Contributing Writer
Aliya Miranda remembers standing in 
a sea of people as hundreds of thousands 
marched on Washington, D.C. in January.
The UF telecommunication junior was 
part of a group of 17 students from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program that attended and documented the Women’s 
March on Washington, which drew about 500,000 participants a day after President Donald Trump was inaugurated.
On Wednesday, the group spoke to 
about 50 students and faculty members 
about the experience. They plan to ar-chive interviews conducted during historic 
march, which will be made public and pos-
sibly turned into a podcast, she said.
“The most difﬁ  cult part about this trip 
was getting over my personal biases and 
asking constructive questions that would 
give us answers that we may not have heard a million times before in the media,” the 20-year-old said. Holland Hall, the research coordinator 
for the trip, said the goal was to collect the 
voice of the people. 
“We were trying to get a very objective 
view and a wide lens of what was going on 
in D.C.,” the 24-year-old said.
On Thursday, the Women’s March on 
Washington Archives Project Facebook page announced it will be partnering with 
the UF programs to archive the protest.
During the trip, Miranda said she and 
the other students were sometimes met 
with hostility, especially on Inauguration Day.
Although the results of the presidential 
election depressed her, she said document-ing the march was empowering.
“(The trip) made you realize just how 
many people are there to support you,” she said. Students reﬂ  ect on documenting Women’s March on WashingtonUF’s Interfraternity Council awarded for academic programs 
CAMPUS
“(The trip) made you realize just how many 
people are there to support you.”
Aliya Miranda
UF studentThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Now that we’re at the end of Student Government election 
week, let’s get together and reflect on other important events. 
And if you’re going, “Election? That happened?” you’re not alone, so we will take this time to gather ‘round a metaphorical campfire and catch up on what’s been happening, locally and 
nationally, in this week’s edition of…
Darts & Laurels
In what came as no surprise, Impact Party swept the Spring 
SG elections. In fact, the only people who were surprised were the 
countless students who weren’t even aware there was an election going on. Contrary to past SG election seasons, infamous for hav-ing candidates of all parties going up to students with fliers and 
escorting them to a voting location, this Spring election was quite 
hush-hush, with many students expressing they didn’t even know it was happening. We’re going to give a dart to SG for poor ad-
vertising, regardless of its intention.   Without proper notice, how were students supposed to have their say? They deserve to know when an election is happening.
Anyway, shifting to a more national scale, it comes (again) as 
no surprise that President Donald Trump’s administration is hard-bent on reversing some of former President Barack Obama’s poli-
cies — specifically guidance Obama issued to the nation’s public 
schools urging they allow students to use bathrooms correspond-ing to their gender identities or face the threat of funding cuts. Now, in a twist of events that not even we could predict, Secretary 
of Education Betsy DeVos actually initially fought against Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions on overturning the Obama-era bathroom order. She eventually backed off her opposition to Trump’s removal of the order, but she made sure to release a pub-lic statement Wednesday, in which she argued schools have an 
obligation to protect students against bullying and discrimination. 
The rest of her family is outspoken against LGBTQ+ rights and have funded anti-gay agendas, but DeVos has supported LGBTQ+ individuals in the past, according to The New York Times; though she hasn’t made such support public. We’re giving a laurel to 
DeVos — she’s still not qualified for her position, but it’s nice to see a member of the Trump administration with both feet in the 21st century.
Contentious right-wing media superstar Milo Yiannopoulos 
was dropped from his invite to the 2017 Conservative Political Ac-tion Conference, lost his book deal with publisher Simon & Schus-ter and publicly resigned from Breitbart News Netork.Now, what could this already-inflammatory writer have said to get flak from those who defended his misogyny and racism? Turns out, there is a line you don’t cross when deliberately trying to “trigger liberals,” and that line is pedophilia. Now, say what you want about Yian-nopoulos’ previous comments and the protests against him — and the protests against the protests against him — but we’re glad that 
at least comments defending adult relationships with 13-year-olds 
have repercussions. So we give a laurel to Simon & Schuster and 
CPAC for acting accordingly and dissociating with Yiannopou-los. Sure, it took pedophilia to get there, but better late than never.
And speaking of repercussions, let’s switch back to local issues. 
This week, the sign for Walker Hall, which houses UF’s African American Studies and Center for Jewish Studies was found uproot-ed. If it was, in fact, vandalized, this is one of many increasingly concerning acts of hate and violence displayed around campus. A 
Beaty Towers resident assistant found her Black History Month-
themed bulletin board ripped down. There have been slurs written on whiteboards in classrooms. The concentration of hate at UF has continued to grow in the past two months. UF prides itself on being great; it’s sad to see nothing more than passing statements denouncing the acts of hatred. This campus is home to a diverse population, and it should be a place where people are not afraid to study, live and work. We throw a dart to those who feel the 
need to spread hate on our campus, and to UF for not taking 
a stronger stance against this hate. 
We cannot allow ourselves to become numb to prejudice and 
allow it to fester.We must fight sex trade in the Sunshine State
It’s tempting to dismiss human trafficking as 
the shooting star of the criminal underworld — a series of one-off stories that evince a 
problem afflicting only a handful of the un-
luckiest people, inevitable tragedies like Ar-
iel Castro’s decade-long capture of three young women. But the reality is that human traffick-
ing is a global, multibillion dollar industry with 
branches that twist and burrow in our own com-munities, around our own friends, siblings and children. 
Consider this barrage of statistics: According to an Ur-
ban Institute study, sex trafficking in 2007 netted $290 mil-lion in Atlanta alone. Georgia, ranked sixth in number of reported human trafficking cases by state, according to data from the National Human Trafficking Hotline, trails far be-
hind California and Florida. The same data ranked our very 
own Sunshine State third-highest in the country.
Consider that each of those statistics represents a living, 
breathing person: a human being with as vast a depth of feeling as your own, who finds leaning on her left elbow uncomfortable, who prefers the soft fuzz of the radio when her mom starts the car in the morning, who excels at math 
and loves her parents and argues with her brother over the 
front seat. This girl has that life torn away and replaced with sweaty, overweight men who reek of alcohol, men who purchase her like pizza and rape her by the hundreds and beat her when any whisper of agency bubbles through.
We cannot in good conscience ignore this problem or 
sweep it under some statistical rug. Our own state is home to this slavery in abundance, and we do far too little to combat it. 
So how can we improve? The sex trade is 
a demand-driven industry. Suppliers supply 
what’s in demand at the quantities demand-
ed. Policies to target the suppliers of sex are abound, but until demand decreases, interested parties will jump at the opportunity to turn a 
profit. Currently, the U.S. lacks an explicit law 
targeted at those who purchase sex with traf-ficking victims, according to a New York Law School academic report. Such individuals en-
gage in sex trafficking as consumers (termed “johns”) and 
are subject only to prostitution and child abuse laws — pen-
alties that can be as minor as a month in jail and a fine. Our state legislators must push for more severe penalties specific to those purchasing the services of trafficked indi-
viduals, making potential buyers more careful and decreas-
ing demand overall. 
Law enforcement officers must also better recognize and 
collaborate with rescued trafficking victims to, one, ensure that they feel comfortable coming forward and, two, elicit 
more useful information for dismantling complicated crimi-
nal networks. We can start by requiring mandatory training for officers in how to deal with human trafficking cases.
What’s more, we must have a sturdier safety net for 
trafficked individuals to escape into. This means signage on public bathroom walls in multiple languages outlining available interventions, programs that train employees at trafficking hot spots (motels, clubs, etc.) to recognize tell-tale signs and an increase in the number of residential pro-
gram beds where trafficking victims stay while repairing 
their lives.
Until we make adjustments, this loss of innocence is a 
guilt we all bear.
Champe Barton is a UF economics and psychology  ju-
nior. His column appears on Thursdays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORChampe Barton
opinions@alligator.org
“W e cannot in good conscience 
ignore this problem.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
A signiﬁ  cant part of every American’s 
upbringing is the instillation of American values and norms. Am-
bition, self-efﬁ  cacy, conﬁ  dence, in-
dividualism and a work-horse atti-
tude are all traits taught in classrooms. We are a culture centered about the individual, 
each one of us acting as the captain for our 
own life, told since kindergarten that we could do whatever we set our minds to. If you can dream it, you can achieve it. Hid-den underneath all of our lessons was a 
separate curriculum set by culture and so-
ciety, a curriculum with no assignments or progress reports, but instead a prep course for the long and daunting stretch ahead.
Of all the national attitudes and prevail-
ing perspectives out there, the American dream has to be one of the most attrac-tive and best-sounding. Hearing stories of American icons like Henry Ford and 
Abraham Lincoln starting from scraps and 
working their way to the top energizes the masses and provides them with the conﬁ  -dence needed to enter the rat race. At the 
core of the dream are ideals of freedom and prosperity, timeless appeals that 
everyone can cling to. But is the American dream still alive? Is the 
U.S. still the leading land of op-
portunity in the free world?
If recent studies are to be 
believed, the answer is no. The 
American dream appears to have 
turned back east, across the At-lantic, and nestled itself gently in the heaven-on-earth that is Scan-dinavia.
Alan Krueger, the chairman of Obama’s 
Council of Economic Advisers, released what he calls the Great Gatsby curve. On 
the x-axis lies the Gini index (a measure-
ment of nationwide income distribution), and on the y-axis lies something called “in-tergenerational immobility” (how difﬁ  cult it is for you to make more money than your parents). 
What the Great Gatsby curve 
shows us is that the more eco-nomically unequal the country becomes, the more difﬁ  cult it is to climb the socio-economic lad-
der. In other words, we won’t be 
better off until we are all better off.
The most shocking feature of 
the curve is the U.S.’ position toward the 
top-right end of the curve, the most un-
equal and economically immobile portion of the graph. At the other end of the curve we ﬁ  nd Denmark, Finland, Norway and 
Sweden. Each of these countries also fea-
ture a higher median income than the U.S.
In his book “The Almost Nearly Perfect 
People,” Michael Booth looks into “the myth of the Scandinavian Utopia” and 
shows that it’s not just glaciers and good 
times up there.
The Scandinavians’ high levels of equal-
ity and mobility do not come without a 
cost, as it is no coincidence that these are also the most highly taxed countries in the 
world. The government plays the role of banker in this game of “Monopoly," mak-
ing sure everyone gets their fair share and 
nobody gets too far ahead or behind anyone on the economic ladder. That’s the catch: Your social mobility is certainly higher in 
Denmark, but you’re going to have to also 
pay for your neighbor’s, plus, your ceiling could be lower because of it. It’s a game of give and take. It’s safer in Denmark: No-body loses too badly, but nobody wins that 
greatly either.
It all boils down to a game of odds. 
Your chance of rising through the classes 
is higher in Denmark, but your ladder is 
not as tall, as you are not risking as much 
with the government providing a safety net below you. For some, this is the way that it should be. For others, the bigger chunk of cheese waiting at the top of America’s lad-
der is enough to keep them stateside and in 
pursuit of a grander prize.
Andrew Hall is a UF management ju-
nior. His column appears on Fridays.
'If Americans want to live the American dream, they should go to Denmark'Column
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
“It all boils down to a 
game of odds.”8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Scott Powers said he doesn’t 
consider himself a great teacher — 
but UF President Kent Fuchs does.
On Monday, Powers found 
out Fuchs had selected him as 
UF’s Teacher/Scholar of the Year, 
which Powers considers the uni-versity’s most prestigious honor for a faculty member. According to the UF website, the selected nominee will also be UF’s nomi-nee for the SEC Professor of the Year award. 
The award also comes with 
$6,000, he said.
Powers, a professor in UF’s 
College of Health and Human Per-formance, will be the ﬁ  rst from his department to receive the award, which UF’s president began giving out in 1960.
“It’s a great feeling to be rec-
ognized by the University of Flor-
ida for having the two traits that the university really appreciates. That’s teaching and scholarship,” 
Powers said.
Powers has 
been a profes-sor at UF for 28 years, teaching about health and exercise science. As a 
professor, he 
said he always 
tries to learn 
more about his students so he can 
help them ﬁ  nd their passion.
“The key to be successful in life 
is to ﬁ  nd something that you’d do for free — that you love it so much you’d do it for free, then you trick someone into paying you to do it,” Powers said.
The research he has conducted 
for the past 18 years focuses on skeletal muscle wasting, which is when a patient’s diaphragm mus-cles deplete, due to their inability to breathe without a respirator. His goal is to ﬁ  nd a treatment to stop the deterioration, but Powers 
said he’d be just as happy if one 
of his students discovers the solu-tion.
“They’ll carry this torch, and 
one of them will solve the puzzle,” he said.
Paige Gillett, a 21-year-old UF 
applied physiology and kinesiol-ogy junior, said while working at 
Publix, customers would tell her 
good things about Powers. On the 
ﬁ  rst day she attended his Physiol-
ogy of Exercise and Training class, she said she knew they were right.
“He just emanated passion and 
enthusiasm throughout the entire semester,” Gillett said.
She said seeing Powers’ love 
for his job inspired her to discover her own passion.
“You could tell he showed up 
to class every day and really loved what he was doing,” Gillett said. “And so I feel like that’ll motivate me to go out and do something I enjoy and really pursue my pas-sion.” Professor named UF Teacher/
Scholar of the Year by UF president
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After nine years of freelancing and 
working with Univision and CNN en 
Español, reporter Dania Alexandrino will come teach at UF.
Alexandrino will start as the Span-
ish-language news manager for UF’s College of Journalism and Communi-cations on March 20 and will be paid a $73,500 salary, she said. She will work with Noticias WUFT, the Span-ish-language radio broadcast agency for WUFT.
While at UF, she will also teach 
about Spanish-language media in 
a joint program with the Center for 
Latin American Studies, Alexandrino said.
“I’m looking forward to creating, 
to teaching the new generation of journalists to tell stories and be hu-man doing it,” she said.
Alexandrino is the second for-
mer CNN employee to be hired by 
UF since January. On Jan. 6, UF an-
nounced former CNN Digital editor Mira Lowe would lead UF’s Innova-tion News Center.
Alexandrio said although some of 
her colleagues were confused why she would leave TV news to teach, she sees it as a step forward.
Oriana Bravo, 
a 20-year-old UF journalism ju-
nior, met Alex-andrino about a month ago when 
she came for her 
on-campus inter-view. Bravo, who co-anchors Noti-
cias WUFT, said she and the mostly female team related to Alexandrino.
Bravo said she looks forward to 
working with Alexandrino and hear-ing about her experiences in Spanish 
media.
“I think she can give a lot of really 
good advice in terms of career path, 
especially for our goals in Spanish media. She knows a lot about the in-dustry and the ins and outs,” Bravo said.Former CNN reporter 
tapped for UF position 
Powers
Alexandrino
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Harrison O’Keeffe
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In Anderson Hall, a group of 54 under-
graduate UF students spend 15 to 20 hours a 
week working late into the night to prepare for fake court cases.
The UF Mock Trial Team will compete 
in the American Mock Trial Association’s opening round championship tournament, starting March 17 in Decatur, Georgia.  If the team places within the top 48 of about 200 teams, it will advance to the national cham-pionship for the ﬁ  rst time since 2014, said Cat Sheets, the organization’s president.
The team has a good chance of advanc-
ing to the national championship, which 
will be held in Los Angeles, Sheets said.
“This year we have a really talented, 
hard-working, dynamic group of people and we’ve been working really hard for this,” 
the 21-year-old UF political science senior said.
The team will also host its third annual 
Inter-Organizational Charity Mock Trial Tournament on April 8 and 9 at UF’s Levin College of Law. Proceeds from other uni-versity teams’ entry fees go toward the In-nocence Project of Florida, a legal organiza-tion aiming to exonerate wrongly convicted criminals for free, Sheets said.
Riley Freese, an 18-year-old economics 
and Spanish freshman, said she’s excited for the charity event because the team is raising money for a cause she believes in.
“I think it would be interesting for people 
to come see us,” Freese said. “I think people hear of mock trial is, but they don’t exactly know what it is and what comes out of all the hard work we put into it.”UF Mock Trial Team hopes to 
make national championship
By Isaac Heller 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers have participated in a Na-
tional Institute on Aging study that discovered 
testosterone treatments can improve anemia in older men.
The research, which lasted about ﬁ  ve years 
and included 790 men over 65 years old, ad-dressed testosterone treatment’s effects, said Dr. Marco Pahor, the director of UF’s Institute on Aging. In February 2016, he co-authored a 
published paper that showed testosterone has 
positive effects on sexual and physical func-tions. 
The new results, published in February, 
were from the same study but focused on other aspects of treatment: cardiovascular outcomes, bone density, anemia and cognition, said Dr. Sergei Romashkan, the national institute’s chief 
of the Clinical Trials Branch.Out of the 790 men, 64 had anemia, or a lack 
of healthy red blood cells. The treatment im-
proved hemoglobin levels in a portion of them, 
according to a national institute press release.
 This was the largest study ever conducted 
on older men with low testosterone levels, Pa-
hor said. 
“There are several beneﬁ  ts and potential 
questions that are raised by these studies, and ultimately, physicians will need to evaluate case by case, given the symptoms and condi-tions of a patient,” he said. 
Romashkan said more studies are needed to 
investigate the treatment’s safety, which would require up to 6,000 people.
He said men with low testosterone levels 
should consult their physician about treatment.
“(He) should talk to his physician, who will 
determine the clinical signiﬁ  cance of changes that the man reports and then decide whether testosterone is right for him or not,” he said.UF researchers: Testosterone 
treatment improves anemia FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray. Odorless, Long Lasting.Available: Hardware Stores,The Home Depot, homedepot.com.Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!      2-24-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      2-24-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Assessment Writers/Editors
Progress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
Sun Country Sports Center currently has 
openings for swim instructors who love work-ing with children. Must be friendly, enthusias -
tic, reliable, and self-motivated. Possibility of add'l hours in other depts.Apply at suncountrysports.com/jobs     2-24-17-5-14
HPM at UF Health/Shands Hospital is seek-ing valet attendants. Must be able to drive a manual/stick shift, have a valid driver's license, and clean driving history (≤ 6pts in 3 yrs). Call (352) 594-6231 or E-Mail SWilliams@717parking.com     2-27-17-5-14
part time computer programmerwork your hours knowledge of phpjava helpful resume w/experiencetraining, and salary expectedemail coproassoc@bellsouth.net     2-28-17-5-14
Medical Billing and CodingCareer Training at Sullivan andCogliano Training CentersCall 1-888-535-9909 or clicklearn.sctrain.eduFinancial Aid Available to those who qualify. SCtrain.edu/disclosures      2-24-1-15
QuickBooks and PayrollCareer Training at Sullivan andCogliano Training CentersCall 1-888-535-9909 or clicklearn.sctrain.eduFinancial Aid Available to those who qualify. SCtrain.edu/disclosures       2-24-1-15
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Retired machinist, movie prop maker, artifi-
cer seeks artist / sculpter to share studio in Cross Creek. No cost. I would like company & to help each other with art. Contact Swamp Wizard 352-466-0115, cromt@bellsouth.net    2-27-17-5-19
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334-7726 and make a REAL connection.       2-24-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Designated drivers are the greatestBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●
★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years. Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305      2-24-1-16
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMP Get Stronger & Harder Immediately! Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely. Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Phone Consultation: 1-800-354-3944 www.DrJoelKaplan.com       2-24-2-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Test in which
contrasts are
helpful, briefly
4 __ stiff
10 Minor set-to14 Huffington Post
owner
15 Wedding offering
16 Defunct food
coating
17 Domestic
shamelessness?
20 Boundary
21 Legal tender with
a torch
22 Dealer’s offering
23 __ voce25 Body shop
supply
26 Near giveaway at
the liquor store?
30 2016 Billboard
Top Artist
31 Besides Linus,
the only Nobel
laureate in two
fields
32 Take badly?
35 Alluring36 Postgame staple37 Candy __38 Feb. setting in
Spokane
39 Artist at Giverny40 Opposite of 
56-Across
41 Fort Knox?43 Philosophers’
group
46 “Cutthroat
Kitchen” hostBrown
47 Second name,
perhaps
48 “Zounds!”51 They’re often
tough to beat
53 Result of way too
many leaves inthe eaves?
56 Opposite of 
40-Across
57 Album contents58 ENT’s group59 Arcade
trademark word
60 Part of many art
museum names
61 Table support
DOWN
1 Ancient spell
caster
2 Produce stand
sites
3 “My turn”4 Part of NSF: Abbr.
5 Telling it like it is
6 Opposition
leader?
7 First name in
Chicago politics
8 It’s thrust in
competition
9 Phone button
letters
10 Without
aggression
11 Zeus remains
largely neutral
during its
narrative
12 “A dagger of the
mind, a __
creation ... ”:Macbeth
13 Potatoes may be
cooked in one
18 Unloose19 How stand-up
comics usuallywork
24 Ring site25 Salon sound
26 [I’m shocked!]
27 Enhance through
change
28 Showed
impatience, in away
29 Poetry Muse32 One moving with
frequency?
33 Russian
Orthodox church
feature
34 City on the Aare36 Kaiser, for one37 Songs of Seville39 Maine road sign
image
40 Nothing41 Buffalo Bill feature42 Really loving43 Generational tales44 Barnyard sound45 Request to a
dealer
48 Verify the story of49 Above the
crossbar andbetween theuprights
50 Forced bet52 Obstruction54 Tach stat
55 SEAL’s org.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/24/1702/24/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 24, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Freshman gymnast Maegan Chant fell during her ﬁ  rst home meet as a Gator. She'll look to redeem herself tonight, pg. 15Football team making position changes before Spring
Multiple Gators will play new roles for Florida in 2017. Defensive back Duke 
Dawson will go from nickel to full-time cornerback. Tight end Camrin Knight 
will play linebacker in Spring. Richerd Desir-Jones will shift from offensive line to defensive line, coach Jim McElwain announced on Thursday.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain knows what he wants. 
With quarterback Luke Del Rio, last 
year’s starter, set to miss all of Spring prac-tice after a non-throwing shoulder surgery, McElwain wants one of his QBs to seize the starting role.
“The biggest piece we’re looking for,” 
McElwain said Thursday, “is somebody to step up and say, ‘You know what, I’m go-
ing to take this, and I’m going to lead this 
team.’”
With Del Rio sidelined, Florida will look to two redshirt freshmen to lead the team 
in Spring: Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask. 
Franks, a four-star recruit, came to UF 
in January of 2016 as an early enrollee. 
The 6-foot-6 signal caller threw inter-
ceptions on three of his ﬁ  rst four passes in the 2016 Orange & Blue Debut. 
But McElwain has watched Franks im-
prove since then and said he’s learning from his mistakes. 
“I think the biggest thing there is just 
understanding that it doesn’t happen auto-matically,” McElwain said. 
Kyle Trask also enrolled early in 2016, 
eight days before Franks, as a three-star recruiting prospect and completed four of seven passes in the Spring game last year. 
Accuracy is imperative. No SEC team 
threw more interceptions than Florida last season, so the coaching staff will scrutinize QB performances in Spring practice.
“Every drill is graded,” McElwain said. 
“Whether it’s routes on air, the accuracy of the throws and where it needs to be and all those type of things.”
Florida also has a wildcard in the mix 
when it comes to QB.
Newcomer Kadarius Toney enrolled at 
UF on Jan. 4 and was recruited as a ver-satile athlete who can play multiple posi-tions, from receiver to defensive back to QB.
McElwain said Toney will get plenty of 
reps behind center, so the staff can experi-ment with him on offense. 
Implementation of the 5-foot-11 athlete 
from Eight Mile, Alabama, on offense could lead to more designed QB runs, McElwain said.
“It’s something we did a little bit with 
Austin (Appleby), and yet this gives us a little bit more as we move forward,” he said. 
McElwain also announced that Del Rio 
was accepted into UF’s sport management graduate program, quelling rumors that the redshirt junior may transfer and potentially providing a safety net if none of Florida’s freshmen pan out in time for UF’s Sept. 2 matchup with Michigan. 
As for Franks and Trask, McElwain 
joked his way out of answering which Spring QB has the better chance to start. 
“They’re close,” McElwain said. 
“They’re real close. There’s probably about a half-inch difference between them, I think. I don’t know. Kadarius is smaller, though.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org  Florida football: the quarterback question
Alligator File Photo
Quarterback Feleipe Franks rushes in the Orange & Blue Debut on April 8. 
I have to admit, I was slightly surprised at the outcome of Tuesday night’s game between No. 13 Florida and South Carolina.
Like one of my colleagues, I thought the 
Gators’ season was finished.
In my mind, there was no way they could over-
come the loss of starting center John Egbunu, who was lost for the year after tearing the ACL in his left knee against Auburn on Feb. 14. 
While it’s true that Egbunu has had a down 
year — I’ve addressed that in previous columns — the qualities he brings to the team are invalu-able.
How could UF replace 255 pounds of sheer 
strength and athleticism wrapped in a 6-foot-11 package?
They couldn’t, I thought.That is, until the South Carolina game. Florida dominated on offense and defense in an 
81-66 win against the SEC’s top-ranked defense.
So, I guess I’ll just say it.The Gators’ season is not “done.”With Tuesday night’s win, Florida sits in a tie 
for first in the SEC standings with No. 11 Ken-tucky, which the Gators face on Saturday after-noon in Lexington.
A win in Rupp Arena would almost assure UF 
the SEC’s regular-season title, a feat the Gators haven’t achieved since they went undefeated in conference play during the 2013-14 season.
Obviously, without Egbunu, severe, season-
altering challenges are evident.
Egbunu, despite his struggles, was a crucial 
cog in Florida’s defense. He was the Gators’ top rebounder and post defender. He was also one of Florida’s most reliable shot blockers, collecting 36 blocks in 24 games.
Things are grim. But they're not over.Postseason success is still attainable, and it’s 
going to take a collective effort.
“Guys need to step up,” UF coach Mike White 
said. “That’s our only choice.”
Forward Devin Robinson has to be involved 
both offensively and defensively. Guards Kasey Hill and Chris Chiozza have to grab defensive re-bounds. Kevarrius Hayes needs to stay out of foul trouble. 
And KeVaughn Allen needs to score.“I think he needs to,” White said of Allen. “Re-
gardless of what happened to John, we want to see KeVaughn be more aggressive.”
It’s a lot to ask for, I know.But it’s doable, and Florida can prove it with a 
good showing on Saturday. Hoops fans: Florida’s 
season is not ‘done’HERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
After Andrew Baker notched the ﬁ  rst 
strikeout of his college career, the fresh-man danced on the mound. The game was over, and he’d preserved his team’s 8-1 win over William and Mary on Satur-day. But in his one inning of work, the game wasn’t really in doubt. 
That wasn’t the case on Tuesday. Brought on to close against the Jack-
sonville Dolphins, Baker inherited two runners and one out in the bottom of the ninth. He ﬁ  nished by allowing a game-winning hit to JU, taking the loss in Flor-ida’s ﬁ  rst defeat of 2017. 
“I’ve gotta learn to keep composure,” 
he said. “I’ve gotta learn to throw in tight situations like that. So it’s really a good lesson to learn early.”
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan agreed. He didn’t think much of Baker’s ﬂ  op, 
blaming himself for putting the lefty in that situation. But when No. 3 Florida (3-1) opens its weekend series against Miami (2-1) tonight at 6:30 at McKethan Stadium, O’Sullivan needs Baker — and the rest of UF’s young relievers — to step up. 
“I think the key to our team,” he said, 
“eventually, is the development of four or ﬁ  ve of those freshmen.”
Aside from Baker, none of them 
have received signiﬁ  cant playing time. O’Sullivan is hoping to change that against Miami. 
Baker, meanwhile, is excited to get an-
other chance to pitch, especially against the Hurricanes. 
“I watched this series right here ev-
ery year since about eighth or seventh grade,” he said, “so I’m really excited to be a part of it this time.
“Jitters are going to be crazy.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org 
 Gators, Baker getting 'jitters' for MiamiBASEBALL14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer
Florida track and field jumper Ebony 
Luster is fast. 
That’s what her physical education 
teacher told her in elementary school when 
suggesting that Luster should compete in track in middle school. 
So, she did. There was one problem, though. Run-
ning isn’t Luster’s thing. 
“I hate running,” she said while laugh-
ing. 
So in high school, Luster jumped in-
stead.
The Lake Mary, Florida, native was 
a raw talent her freshman year of high school. Luster said her coach focused on sprints, and she wasn’t really taught tech-
nique.
Despite lack of proper technique, Luster 
was able to improve her triple-jump mark 
over 5 feet from 35 feet, 3 inches her fresh-man year to her high school best of 41 feet, 
1 inch during her junior outdoor season. 
Luster was a two-time second-place fin-
isher in the triple jump at the FHSAA Class 
4A Outdoor Finals in 2014 and 2015.
This success earned her a scholarship 
to jump for a school about 110 miles away from her hometown. 
Luster said staying in Florida was im-portant to her, and she knew that UF’s jump program had a good reputation, so her decision was a no-brainer.
“The University of Florida, like, how 
can you get better than that?” Luster said. 
She said her freshman year at Florida 
was a physical and mental adjustment pe-
riod. Luster had to change the technique 
she learned in high school, so she worked 
with Florida assistant coach Nic Petersen 
on a new approach. 
The new approach didn’t pay off her 
freshman year. Luster competed in three indoor meets for Florida in 2016 and not once did she top her high school-best mark 
in the triple jump. So far in 2017, she’s 
topped it four times. 
It happened first at the Clemson Orange 
and Purple meet, where she hit 41 feet, 3 inches. Then at the Hokie Invitational, im-
proving by more than five inches, jumping 41 feet, 8.75 inches. And again, at the Ra-
zorback Invitational, jumping one, two and 
three times, flying through the air and into 
the sand, landing at 41 feet, 11.25 inches. 
At the Tyson Invitational, Luster didn’t 
improve on her personal best mark, but she hit 41 feet, 3.25 inches, which is more than three-and-a-half feet further than the mark she set at the same meet in 2016. 
Luster said she hopes to continue im-
proving this weekend when Florida com-petes in the SEC Indoor Track and Field Championships today and Saturday in Nashville, Tennessee. 
Luster, who didn’t have the opportunity 
to compete at the SEC Championship last 
year, said she is excited for the experience 
and hopes to score points for her team. 
“Going this year is like a big relief,” she 
said. “It’s like I know that I can do this 
now.” 
Florida, which is ranked No. 1 on the 
men’s side and No. 11 on the women’s 
side, will face stiff competition. Including 
Florida, seven of the 14 teams competing 
on both the men’s and women’s side are currently ranked in the top 12 nationally. 
Florida coach Mike Holloway, however, 
isn’t focused on the competition. He said he’s focused on the Gators. 
Holloway said the team has been work-
ing hard, and it’s getting better. He said his 
team prides itself in being ready for cham-pionship season.
And come Friday and Saturday, he said 
his team will be competitive. 
“Any championship we go to, we go 
there to win — this one is no different,” Holloway said. “We’re getting on the bus; 
then we’re getting on the plane; and then we’re going to go there and try to win the meet. That’s what we do.” 
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.orgFlorida jumper Luster improves by leaps and bounds
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Ebony Luster jumps during the 2017 Razorback 
Invitational. 
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After a turnover by North Car-
olina, sophomore midfielder Syd-
ney Pirreca received a pass on a clear.
As she ran downfield, Pirreca 
made a move past a defender and headed toward the goal, readying her shot.
Goal. 44 seconds in.
Then, after 
falling behind 3-1, Pirreca scored again off 
another clear to 
put the Gators 
down by one.
In the No. 
4 UF lacrosse team’s loss 
against No. 1 UNC on Feb. 11, it was Pirreca who got things going for Florida, opening up the scor-ing in 2017. 
And in the first half of the UNC 
game, she wasn’t alone. She was joined by her sister, junior attack-er Shayna Pirreca.
“They’re out here all the time,” 
coach Amanda O’Leary said. “On their off days, they are out here to-gether shooting. They have an in-credible work ethic and they want 
to compete at the highest level.”
In the first half, Sydney and 
Shayna were the Gators’ lone 
scorers, netting three goals to keep Florida within striking dis-tance of the Tar Heels.
Both sisters ended the game 
with hat tricks, scoring six of Florida’s 10 goals. 
The Gators will look to the 
Pirrecas to replicate their success tonight when they take on No. 3 Southern California at Donald R. Dizney Stadium at 6:30. 
The Trojans are coming off 
two wins, a 20-2 victory against St. Mary’s and an 11-10 overtime thriller against Northwestern. 
“We’re coming against one 
of the best draw specialist in the game: Makayla Michaels,” O’Leary said. “I think for us, the big thing is just either trying to make it a 50-50 ball or containing 
her the best we can.”
Aside from the fact that Florida 
hasn’t played USC before, what 
will make the Trojans tough for the Gators is their use of a zone defense.
This means that Florida’s fast-
paced, score-quick offense won’t be able to rely on the attackers 
and midfielders shaking their de-
fenders in the middle of a pos-session. Another defender will be there to take her place.
The use of a different kind of 
defense will cause the Gators to adjust their offense a bit, finding different ways to get past the zone.
“This is definitely a huge game 
for us, especially coming off a loss in the first game of the season,” Shayna Pirreca said. 
“It kind of lit a fire for us and 
makes us want to win that much more.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgPirreca sisters looking 
to repeat success for Gators lacrosseBy Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
Through her first five appear-
ances in the pitcher’s circle, soph-
omore Kelly Barnhill has given up 12 hits.
And with a team-best ERA of 
0.25 and 51 strikeouts, Barnhill now carries the title of SEC Pitch-er of the Week.
“I’ve seen more growth in her 
than I’ve seen in any other athlete I’ve ever coached from freshman to sophomore year,” coach Tim Walton said.
Barnhill notched a memorable 
freshman campaign, composing a 15-1 record and striking out 164 batters.
Now, however, Walton said 
she’s flashing more potential than a season ago. Her ability to end innings fast gives her a case for being the No. 1 option in the 
circle.
That would mean surpassing 
senior Delanie Gourley and junior 
Aleshia Ocasio, who are both dec-orated pitchers with First Team All-America honors.
“She can neutralize the best 
players and best hitters,” Wal-ton said. “Her stuff is really 
good. And when she’s confident 
and throwing three pitches for a strike, she’s as tough to beat as anyone in the country.”
In a win against then-No. 6 
Michigan, Barnhill pitched a com-
plete game, tossing 98 pitches 
and giving up her only earned run of the season.
The next day against No. 25 
USF, she followed up with a one-hitter and 12 strikeouts.
While Walton’s usage of Barn-
hill is on par with Gourley and Ocasio, he knows that she’s still 
looking for every available oppor-
tunity to improve her game.
“She’s a competitor. She’s a 
perfectionist,” Walton said. “She wants to have very good mechan-ics, and she wants to throw hard, she wants to strike people out, she wants to move the ball.”
The Gators, now ranked third 
in the country, will need Barnhill as well as consistent offensive performances with another five-game weekend looming.
Florida starts out the Citrus 
Classic in Orlando today with a battle against Syracuse followed by a matchup against Fordham. Both teams average over four 
runs per game, and if their loss to 
Maryland taught the Gators any-thing, it was not to overlook an opponent.
“To be a great team, we are go-
ing to have to shut more people out,” Walton said. 
“We’re going to have to make 
some of those special plays that 
we didn’t make against Mary-
land.”
The first matchup against the 
Orange begins at 1:15 p.m. at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Com-plex.
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org Barnhill leading UF pitching staff
Alligator File Photo
Kelly Barnhill pitches during Florida’s 11-0 win over Alabama 
State on May 20 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Pirreca
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Ronni Williams gave the Gators 
everything she had on Thursday 
night.
The senior forward from Day-
tona Beach, Florida, has been the soul of UF women’s basketball all season, leading the team in scoring and rebounding as well as serving as its emotional and outspoken leader.
When Florida 
took the ﬂ  oor against Tennes-
see, Williams 
scored a game-
high 22 points on 10-of-19 shooting from the ﬁ  eld.
But her great-
ness wasn’t enough to propel her program to victory.
Playing in front of a crowd of 
9,968, the Volunteers defeated UF 74-70 on Thursday night after clos-ing the game on a 13-2 run.
Redshirt junior center Mercedes 
Russell notched a double-double with 17 points and 10 rebounds to go along with two assists for UT, while redshirt junior guard Dia-
mond DeShields was one assist shy 
of a triple-double with 15 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists.
For Florida, Williams’ 22 points 
marked her 23rd double-ﬁ  gure scor-ing game this season. Freshman guard Delicia Washington contrib-uted as well, totaling 15 points, six rebounds and four assists.
“I felt pretty good the entire 
game,” Williams said. “I knew that if we stuck to the right things, right 
things would happen for us.”
Despite individual performanc-
es, poor execution as a whole from 
the Gators (13-15, 4-11 SEC) down the stretch plagued their chances at securing a win.
After an evenly played opening 
three quarters that saw Tennessee (18-10, 9-6 SEC) lead 56-54, Florida opened the ﬁ  nal 10 minutes of ac-tion on an 11-2 run.
Multiple layups from Williams 
and Washington as well as a three-point basket from junior guard Dy-andria Anderson gave UF a seven-
point lead with 4:31 remaining in 
the game, shifting the momentum completely in the Gators’ favor.
One minute later, another three-
point jumper from junior forward Haley Lorenzen appeared to be a dagger in the hearts of the Volun-teer faithful, silencing the crowd at Thompson-Boling Arena and forc-
ing UT coach Holly Warlick to call 
a timeout. Not much went right for Florida after that.
A series of frantic offensive pos-
sessions leading to buckets from Alexa Middleton, DeShields and redshirt forward Shaquilla Nunn brought Tennessee all the way back to a one-point lead with 36 seconds 
left in the game.
UF, on the other hand, missed 
eight of its ﬁ  nal nine shots and 
struggled to combat UT’s frenetic ﬁ  nal run.
After a three-point attempt from 
Washington failed to tie the contest at 71, Nunn and junior guard Jaime Nared combined to knock down 
three free throws in the ﬁ  nal 10 sec-
onds, securing the victory and giv-ing the Gators their 11th conference loss in 2017.
“We got beat by a very good 
team tonight,” coach Amanda But-ler said. “You have to congratulate Tennessee for the things they did well in critical moments.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
Williams
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Maegan Chant was ready.
It was her ﬁ  rst opportunity to 
compete in front of the Florida home crowd at the O’Connell Center, a venue that consistently attracts elite 
gymnasts like her to Gainesville be-
cause of the passionate fan base.
And she had them cheering when 
she started off the Jan. 13 meet with 
two solid routines on bars and vault, 
earning two 9.850s. 
“The ﬁ  rst part of the competition 
was really good,” Chant said. “Just being able to compete in the O’Dome 
with all our fans was amazing.”
But while the former Canadian 
National Team member had prior experience competing in important meets, the pressure of performing in 
front of more than 7,600 became too 
much heading into the last rotation on ﬂ  oor.
In the previous meet against N.C. 
State, she had stepped out of bounds.
This time, on the same tumbling pass — a front tuck step out to dou-ble tuck — it was even worse.
She bounced out of bounds onto 
her back at the feet of Gators assis-tant coach Adrian Burde.
As she saluted the judges to ﬁ  n-
ish off the routine, the normally en-ergetic gymnast looked disconsolate 
and disappointed, trying to keep her 
emotions at bay.
“Even though it ended bad, I 
learned from it,” Chant said on Tues-day.
The Waterdown, Ontario, native 
was held out of the next four line-ups, until last week when she was given the chance to redeem herself 
on bars and vault on the road at 
then-No.23 Arkansas.
With her teammates already hit-
ting their stride, having to compete after weeks on the sidelines wasn’t easy.
“To have that time off and get 
back, it’s very difﬁ  cult,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “There’s 
always room for improvement, but 
she did a fabulous job.”Tonight, Chant, along with the 
rest of the No. 3 Gators (6-1, 3-1 
SEC), will look to remain undefeated 
at home when they host No. 15 Mis-souri (8-6, 1-3 SEC).
And though Florida is coming off 
a win against the Razorbacks, there are still areas where the team wants 
to improve.
Alex McMurtry, who plans on 
competing in the all-around, is hop-ing to rebound after a tough meet on 
ﬂ  oor.
“I knew it was going to be difﬁ  -
cult,” McMurtry said. “But I’m still excited to be back on ﬂ  oor. … Yeah, it wasn’t the best meet, kind of em-
barrassing falling, but what can you 
do?”
As for Chant, she is just hoping 
she gets another shot to perform in front of the home crowd.
“I’ve taken every opportunity 
that I can get,” Chant said. “I’m just taking it one day at a time, one meet at a time.”
@lstaff27
lstaff27@alligator.org Freshman ready to redeem fall 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Maegan Chant falls down during UF’s win against Kentucky on Jan. 13 in the O’Connell Center. 
 Tennessee beats UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2017
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Point guard Kasey Hill attacks the rim in No. 13 Florida’s 81-66 win against South Carolina on Tuesday.
THIS WEEKEND IN
UF SPORTS
FRIDAY
• Swimming and diving in Last Chance Meet, 
10 a.m.
• Track and ﬁ  eld @ SEC Indoor Championships, 5:25 p.m., SEC Network+
• Lacrosse vs. Southern California, 6:30 p.m.
• Baseball vs. Miami, 6:30 p.m., SEC Network+
• Gymnastics vs. Missouri, 6:45 p.m., SEC Network+
• Softball vs. Syracuse in Orlando, 1:15 p.m.
• Softball vs. Fordham in Orlando, 3:30 p.m.
SATURDAY
• Swimming and diving in Last Chance Meet, 10 a.m.
• Men’s basketball @ Kentucky, 2 p.m., CBS
• Track and ﬁ  eld @ SEC Indoor Championships, 2:55 p.m., SEC Network+
• Baseball vs. Miami, 6:30 p.m., SEC Network+
• Softball vs. Liberty in Orlando, 11 a.m.
• Softball vs. Elon in Orlando, 1:15 p.m.
SUNDAY
• Swimming and diving in Last Chance Meet, 10 a.m.
• Baseball vs. Miami, 1 p.m., SEC Network+
• Softball vs. Lehigh in Orlando, 9:30 a.m.
• Men’s T ennis vs. No. 2 Ohio State, noon
• Women’s basketball vs. Georgia, noon, ESPNU 