We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 107 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
Florida gymnast bouncing back
After falling on Friday, Kennedy Baker’s set-
back may ‘fuel the ﬁ  re’ for her, pg. 13
Meet the SG candidates for the Spring election
And read our endorsement this election, pgs. 6, 8 and 9
Sheriﬀ  ’s oﬃ   ce mourns two deaths
Last week, a former Lieutenant and a 911 dispatcher died, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ART ON THE PLAZA
Annie Gonzaga Lorde, 29, a Brazilian grafﬁ  ti and watercolor artist, sprays paints on a piece of plywood 
on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday afternoon. The completed art piece, which took about an hour, portrayed the Afro-indigenous culture marked by a black coronated female ﬁ  gure. Lorde said by portraying black women positively she hopes to change people’s perception.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
On a holiday when American 
presidents are celebrated, protest-ers in Gainesville carried handmade signs and stood in opposition to President Donald Trump. 
About 50 protesters gathered 
on Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
on Monday afternoon in a peace-
ful demonstration against the presi-
dent’s policies, one of many that took place across the country. Guest speakers excited the crowd with chants like “No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA” and included calls to 
protect the press and public lands.
The “What Makes a President” 
rally was purposefully held on 
Presidents Day and was created to demonstrate the qualities of good leadership while resisting current leaders in ofﬁ  ce, said Genevieve 
Murphy, the event’s host.
“Patriotism means to stand by 
your country, not necessarily to 
stand by your president,” Murphy said. 
The event was held in solidar-
ity with sanctuary cities and states, Murphy said. Standing between two large black banners that read, “Re-sist,” Murphy urged the crowd to not tolerate hate.
“I think our kids need good role Protesters rally against Trump on Presidents Day
SG
IT IS THE FIRST ALL-MALE 
TICKET SINCE 2011.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite about 54 percent of 
UF degree-seeking students being female in Fall 2015, according to the most recent UF data, students will vote today and Wednesday for an all-male Student Govern-ment executive ticket. 
This is the ﬁ  rst time an execu-
tive ticket hasn’t included women since 2011’s Unite Party’s execu-tive candidates, according to Al-ligator archives.
Impact Party’s candidates are 
running unopposed: Smith Mey-ers for UF Student Body president, Mario Agosto, for vice president and Revel Lubin, for treasurer. 
Party opponents argue the 
ticket shows hypocrisy in Im-pact’s past arguments about di-versity, while party members said the connection is misinterpreted. 
Impact’s new party president, 
Donald Mercado, and the new par-ty treasurer, Johnny Townsend, are also male. The party is run-ning 18 female senate candidates out of 49 for this Spring election. Progress Party has seven male candidates, and one of the three independent candidates is female.
Within Senate, three female 
Impact senators chair the six leg-islative committees. Impact spokesperson Janae 
Moodie said the next Senate pres-ident will probably be female, but Senate will vote on that.
On April 5, 2016, Impact sena-
tors argued and ultimately didn’t approve two male students nomi-nated for UF Supreme Court po-
 Impact executive ticket raises concerns over gender diversityCRIME
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
In light of its president being 
arrested on a charge of sexual bat-tery, local event company Uber Promotions Inc. now faces uncer-
tainty  among its prime clientele: UF sororities and fraternities.
On Feb. 10, 
Joey Friedman, was arrested on a charge of sex-
ual battery after 
allegedly spiking the drink of a woman he met at Grog House Bar & Grill, a Midtown bar, according to a police report. He was released after posting a $50,000 bond.
The company provides party buses and organizes social events at different bars around town and often works with different UF so-rorities and fraternities to host 
events. It was registered in Florida 
in 2006, according to the Florida 
Division of Corporations.
On the night of the assault, Dec. 
14, Friedman’s company hosted 
an event at Grog House Bar & Grill, 
according to its Facebook page.
Friedman’s lawyer declined to 
comment for this article. His busi-ness partner Mike Farzad also de-
clined to comment.
Devon Leasure, the president 
of UF’s Panhellenic Council, said some chapters have used Uber 
Promotions for local events, but 
it all depends on the chapter. She 
said there have not been incidents  Uber Promotions 
faces uncertainty after owner’s arrestSEE PROTEST,  PAGE 3
SEE UBER,  PAGE 3
SEE TICKET,  PAGE 3Friedman
The crowd of about 50 gathered at Bo Diddley PlazaLOCALSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 107
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Panel on the current political 
 climate
The Religion Grad Student Association is hosting a panel discussion today from 5:30 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in Ustler Hall. 
The event, ‘Travel Bans and Islamophobia in the Current Political Climate,’ will feature prominent panelists including Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons, Kenneth Nunn and a board member from Emerge USA. The event is free and open to 
the public. For more informa-
tion check out the Facebook event page: facebook.com/events/1843477995869303.
The UF Fine Arts College 
Council Presents the 2017 FACC Student Juried Arts Exhibition
UF Fine Arts College Council is 
pleased to present the "2016-2017 FACC Student Juried Arts Exhibition’ starting today to March 2 in the University Gallery. From sculpture and installation to ceramics, paint-ing, photography and video, the exhibition features the work of 
graduate and undergraduate  
students from the College of the Arts in the School of Art + Art History and a special dance per-formance by students from the School of Theatre and Dance. An opening reception will be held Friday from 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. with an awards pre-
sentation at 7 p.m. All events are 
free and open to the public.
Learning Fair at the UF Libraries
The Smathers Libraries will hold a Digital Learning Fair at the UF Libraries on Thursday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library East, Room 100. Look 
for the balloons. Students can 
learn about the digital resources available in the libraries, includ-ing 3-D printing, education-test-ing databases, mapping tools, One Button Studio, digital news-papers and more. There will be free snacks and giveaways.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Sumi Ink ClubThe UF School of Art + Art History is proud to present vis-iting artist Sumi Ink Club on Thursday as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series. The lecture series is free and open to the public. The 
lecture will begin at 6 p.m. in 
the Fine Arts Building B, Room 103. In each of its permutations, Sumi Ink Club uses group draw-ing as a means to open and for-tify social interactions that bleed into everyday life, beginning with a core set of guidelines for collaboration to create complex composite images that represent 
our histories, narratives, fanta-
sies and imaginaries. The lecture offers the community at large an important opportunity for dia-logue about contemporary art and culture in relation to na-tional and international trends. For more information visit arts.ufl.edu.
‘On the Edge: What Future for 
the African Sahel?’ Join the UF Sahel Research Group for the 2017 Gwendolen M. Carter Conference in African-American Studies from Thursday through Sunday. All panels will be held in the Reitz Union, ex-
cept for the first keynote lec-
ture and the opening reception, which will be held at the Harn Museum of Art. Transportation to the museum will be provided. This interdisciplinary confer-ence will bring together scholars from Africa, Europe and North America to offer perspectives on 
key issues shaping the region. 
The conference is free and open to the public, but advanced reg-istration is kindly requested. For more information, visit sahelre-search.africa.ufl.edu.
UF School of Theatre and 
Dance presents ‘Dance 2017: 
Rounding the Corner’
UF’s School of Theatre and Dance is proud to present “Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner” from Thursday until March 2 at the Constans Theatre. “Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner” brings together UF dance fac-ulty, world-renowned guest 
artists and top student dancers 
and designers to create a unique and riveting performance on the spacious stage of the Constans Theatre. “Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner” sets the standard for presenting bold and unapolo-getically original contemporary dance. Tickets for the produc-
tion are $18 for the general pub-
lic, $15 for UF staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion
“Queerness and Disability” is 
the second installment of UF LGBTQ Affairs’ semester-long lunch series. They will look to examine and understand the in-tersection of LGBTQ+ identities and disabilities, and they will ex-plore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related to differ-ent facets of these intersectional identities. This event is open to all people, whether you do or do not identify as LGBTQ+ 
or disabled, and will take place 
in the LGBTQ Affairs space in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Friday from noon to 1 p.m.
Florida Swing Dancing Club 
The Florida Swing Dancing Club offers free lessons and dances 
every Monday and Friday night. 
On Monday nights, the orga-nization will host two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. On Friday nights, the organization hosts two lev-els of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 
p.m. and social dancing from 
9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. For more information, find the Florida Swing Dancing Club on Facebook.
UF School of Music presents 
the Southeastern Saxophone 
Summit
The UF School of Music is pleased to present the 2017 Southeastern Saxophone Summit on Saturday. The event will feature interna-tionally recognized guest artist Gerard McChrystal from Ireland, as well as additional artists from Florida and Georgia. The sum-
mit includes numerous master 
classes, recitals and performanc-es, all of which are free and open to the public. They invite you to join them for a wonderful day featuring professional saxo-phonists from around the nation and world. For a full schedule of events and more information, 
please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  83° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
models,” Murphy said. “The president and 
first lady are not representative of Ameri-cans.”
In the crowd was Chris Monahan, who 
hoisted a sign that read, “We can be so much better” on one side and “Trump represents the worst of us” on the other.
“My biggest fear is that Trump will deliver 
on his campaign promises,” the 54-year-old 
said. “This is racism, and this is xenopho-
bia.”
Monahan said he is upset with Trump’s 
administrative nominations and the lies he 
has told to the American people.
“He’s doing away with the Environmental 
Protection Agency and clearly not set for the office,” he said.
Diana Castine took to the stage at about 
5:15 p.m. to announce an upcoming town hall meeting on March 4 with Congressman Ted Yoho, a Republican representing District 
3.
“We’re not happy with his voting record,” 
the local protester said. “Basically, he’s against everyone who’s not a billionaire.” 
While a venue for the meeting has not 
been set, they plan to ask the congressman questions to hold him accountable, she said.
“We’ll hold his feet to the fire,”  Castine 
said.
As Gainesville’s downtown clock tower 
chimed at 6 p.m., protesters sang the nation-al anthem and then marched to the side of West University Avenue to hoist their signs in front of oncoming traffic.
The display garnered honks and shouts 
of “F--- Donald Trump” from passing driv-ers. Protestors cheered for about 30 minutes before going their separate ways.
“The reason why I resist constantly is that 
I refuse to sit idly by,” Castine said. “This 
administration is stripping us of our rights.”
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.orgwith the company before.
However, Leasure said the council will 
take the sexual battery allegations into ac-
count when deciding on future bookings.
“We formally stand by the notion as a Pan-
hellenic community, that there is never a time or place where rape culture is acceptable,” she said. “We would not ever make any sort of exception for inappropriate behavior.”
Leasure said she hopes the company takes 
care of the allegation and said people need to have meaningful discussions about consent. 
“It is certainly our hope that Uber Promo-
tions will deal with the allegations accord-ingly and take the appropriate measures to ensure upstanding behavior on behalf of all the employees,” she said.
Hailey Robles-Holmes, a Delta Delta Delta 
sister, has been on Uber Promotion buses in the past. 
Even before the allegations, Robles-
Holmes said she is always prepared for the worst case scenario when going out. During her freshman year, there were several sexual assault alerts, which made her cautious. 
While the owner’s actions were bad, she 
said she doesn’t think it reflects on the entire business.
“It’s definitely good to know and have 
your guard up,” she said.
Former Alpha Epsilon Pi President Jared 
Cohen said his fraternity used Uber Promo-tions to organize a social event in January.
Cohen, a 21-year-old UF management 
junior, said the company had been a com-mon vendor for other fraternities, and he has heard positive reviews from others.
“They give you the best rates and stuff, 
so that was why we went ahead and used them,” he said. “That’s also probably the only one we had even heard of.”
He said the event ran smoothly and pro-
fessionally.
“They were very helpful, and nothing 
sketchy happened,” Cohen said. “I’m sure if 
you called like 10 other frats, they would all 
say the same stuff, too.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
PROTEST,  from pg.1 UBER,  from pg.1Protesters sang the National 
Anthem, received honks  The company often works with fraternities and sororities
sitions by former Student Body 
President Joselin Padron-Rasines, partly because the court would have been all male if they were selected.
Kylie Werk, Senate majority 
leader during Spring 2016, said during the debate that because there has been fewer than 10 elected female UF Student Body presidents, there’s an issue with gender diversity at UF, according to an audio recording of the meet-ing obtained by the Alligator.
“To not diversify one of the 
most important bodies of UF Stu-dent Government could possibly be problematic,” she said, refer-ring to the court nominees.“Who knows what a body full of males are going to do when there is an issue relating to women’s rights on this campus?” 
Susan Webster said she re-
membered a conversation with Kalyani Hawaldar, of Access Party, last Spring about how they might have been UF’s first two fe-male presidential candidates. 
When Webster won the presi-
dency, she became the second female Student Body president in a row after UF’s first Latina presi-dent, Access’ Joselin Padron-Ra-sines to take the position. 
She said the current executive 
ticket isn’t an issue because the men were the best candidates. 
Even without gender diversity, 
there’s diversity in background and race. 
“It’s not about checking box-
es,” she said. “It’s about the peo-ple in the roles.”
Praveen Varanasi, a former Access District D senator, said 
diversity was only a tagline for 
Impact, never an issue it actually cared about.
In Spring 2016, Varanasi said 
he argued for Padron-Rasines’ 
Supreme Court nominees: Adam 
Trumbly, the only Native Ameri-can law student in his year at the 
time, and Kenneth Cunningham, 
an openly gay 15-year U.S. Army 
veteran in his 50s. 
Varanasi, 21, said Padron-Ra-
sines picked two qualified, impar-
tial individuals who were denied 
because they weren’t loyal to Im-
pact. 
“The lack of diversity argu-
ments that have been made by 
Impact in the past was made de-
liberately as a way to legitimize 
their political agenda,” he said. 
Impact senators also argued 
that Padron-Rasines didn’t effi-
ciently advertise the positions to 
law students, according to the au-
dio recording.
Padron-Rasines wrote in an 
Alligator letter to the editor that 
she emailed students about the 
nominations eight times through 
an email list. 
Varanasi said she also reached 
out on social media.
When Webster nominated 
agency heads, nine out of 13 were male, according to the meet-
ing’s agenda. Varanasi said this 
showed Impact only uses diver-
sity to further its own plans. 
He said the all-male ticket 
proves this again. 
“It just goes to show that these 
individuals will do whatever they 
can to further their agenda,” he 
said.
Janae Moodie said Impact se-
lected those most qualified for ex-ecutive candidates. 
She said the party doesn’t lack 
female leaders, including herself, a woman of color. 
She added that Impact sena-
tors’ arguments against Padron-
Rasines’ nominees can’t be used 
against the executive ticket be-cause the situations aren’t simi-
lar.
She said women were in the 
running for the positions, but the 
three men were the best fit. 
“In the Supreme Court, there 
were nine out of nine positions that were filled by men compared 
to our 53-person slate of candi-
dates,” she said. “It’s not analo-gous.”
Kenneth Cunningham, 53, 
stood silently in the back of Sen-
ate’s chamber watching the ma-
jority of senators stand and vote 
“no” on his nomination April 5, 
2016.  
After, he approached sena-
tors and asked why some voted 
against him and Trumby. 
He said they didn’t understand 
the nominee’s qualifications or how well the position was adver-
tised. They promised Cunning-
ham they would vote for him if 
there was a second hearing.
There wasn’t. 
He said some senators believed 
the candidate pool included all UF law students. But to be con-
sidered, law students must have a 
2.0 GPA and completed the class, 
evidence, making the number of 
potential applicants about 200, he 
said. 
Cunningham, a third-year UF 
law student, said he realized Im-
pact senators voted against him 
because they wanted their own 
people in the court.When Senate voted, that pro-
cedure wasn’t followed correctly for a second hearing. 
Cunningham was there again, 
waiting to speak to senators. 
He said they told him party 
leadership had dictated how they should vote.
“The leadership of the Senate 
had yelled at them to vote the way that they wanted them to 
vote, which was basically against 
us,” he said.Cunningham said he knew 
then that all arguments Impact made only lasted long enough to benefit the party.  
“The proof is in the pudding,” 
he said. “And there was the pud-
ding.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
TICKET,  from pg.1Of the 49 Impact Party Senate candidates 18 are female
Elections will be held today and Wednesday from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Students will be able to vote for:
• Student Body president• Vice president• Treasurer• 50 Student Senate seats based on college or academic year• 11 amendments to the UF Student Government     constitution• 2 referendums  
POLLING LOCATIONS: 
Broward Hall library Health Science Center C2-041C Heavener, Room 202 Jennings first-floor library Levin College of Law (Bruton-Geer Hall) -  
      side hallways by the cafeteria Marston Science Library, main room Murphree Area Commons, Conference Room 106 Norman Hall Education Library Reitz Union computer lab 
Southwest Recreation Center - cafe near entrance on left side 
Springs Area Office, Room C202“W e’ll hold his feet to the fire.”
Diana Castine
Protester4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
PRESIDENTS DAY CRAFTS
Larry Schwanees, 73, a former UF faculty member, and Julia Harrison, 20, a UF history sophomore, participate 
in a Presidents Day tie-dye event on Monday. The Chomp the Vote craft celebrated Presidents Day, as well as a way for students to have a chance to update their voter registration for the upcoming city election.
TWO OTHER DIRECTORS 
IN THE MCDA HAVE LEFT 
THIS MONTH.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
On the heels of two high-proﬁ  le 
resignations in UF’s Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs, the announce-ment of another came Monday.
After seven months on the job, 
Krystie Nguyen, the director of Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander American Af-fairs, said Monday that her last day will be either March 16 or March 17.
The announcement came on the 
anniversary of APIA’s opening of an ofﬁ  ce in the Reitz Union.
Nguyen said the decision did not 
come easily, but she is now taking time for herself to heal.
“As I focus on how to move for-
ward in this position, the reality is: I need to take some time for myself to heal in order to be the scholar prac-titioner I was meant to be in higher education,” Nguyen wrote in a res-
ignation notice to the MCDA staff. 
Nguyen’s resignation comes 
shortly after Black Affairs Director 
Vee Byrd and LGBTQ Affairs Direc-tor Roxie Patton left their positions in the past two weeks. Addition-ally, the former director of MCDA, Lloren Foster, was removed from his position in September.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said the executive director of MCDA, who is currently being cho-sen in a search process, will be in charge of building the leadership team back up.
“We were surprised by Krystie’s 
resignation and are wholly support-ive of her choice to take care of her-
self,” Sikes said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  UF’s APIA director to 
resign next month
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Yoselyn Paulino doesn’t need 
an abortion, but she still wants to 
learn about available resources in Gainesville.
About 15 students gathered in 
Matherly Hall on Monday night for Planned Parenthood: Generation Ac-tion’s ﬁ  rst meeting of the semester, which focused on abortions and re-productive health.Paulino, 21, just moved to town 
from Miami and wanted to familiarize herself with the different options in town in case a friend needed to know.
“It’s something I’ve been very 
interested in because I’m a woman, and I want to know what it is like out there right now,” the UF reading edu-cation graduate student said.
Paulino said she considers herself 
a political person and tries to vol-unteer her time to causes she cares about, like reproductive rights.“I think no one should ever tell 
you what to do with your body,” she said. 
At the meeting, Kristin Davy, the 
director of Bread and Roses Women’s Health Center, located at 1233 NW 10th Ave., talked about common mis-conceptions about abortion. 
She said many women who come 
into the procedure are surprised at how drained it leaves them.
The color often leaves their faces, 
and women often experience a metal-lic taste, she said.
She also talked about the emotion-
al impact of having an abortion.
“It’s this mix of emotion that’s go-
ing on, and what we tell the patient is any of that is ﬁ  ne,” Davy said. “Whatever you’re feeling afterward, it’s good to feel, it’s OK.”
At the meeting, members of Gen-
eration Action talked about two clin-ics in Gainesville: Bread and Roses and All Women’s Health Center of Gainesville.
Crisis pregnancy centers were 
also mentioned because they tend to veer women away from abortions and limit the options presented, said Tessa Walters, the publicity chair for Generation Action.
Typical side effects from abortion, 
like cramping, were also discussed, as well as things to avoid after the proce-dure — like penetrative sex and heavy lifting, the 19-year-old UF internation-al studies freshman said.
“A lot of women are very scared 
about abortion and that right getting taken away, so we wanted to work to inform women on campus about abortions in Gainesville and what laws are being passed to try to pre-vent them,” she said. 
 Students discuss abortions at Planned Parenthood meeting 
Representatives from local clinics spokeTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
2-EPISODE EVENT TONIGHT 8p
Get more CW at cwgainesville.com
Get news updates, more video and blogs at www .alligator .org
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
The ﬁ  nal interview process 
for the new director of UF’s Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs began Monday and will continue throughout the week.
The position has been tempo-
rarily ﬁ  lled by Interim Executive Director Will Atkins because the former director, Lloren Foster, was removed from his position on Sept. 15, according to Alligator archives.
Students have the opportunity 
to sit in on the applicants’ presen-tations and ask questions.
Evelyn Veras, a 20-year-old am-
bassador for Hispanic-Latino Af-fairs, said she thinks it’s important for students to have a voice in the application process.
“There should be a person that 
is speaking out for what students want,” the UF health education and behavior and international 
studies junior said.
Both Atkins and the interim associate director, Gabe Lara, are running for the executive position. 
Two other candidates, Kimberly Williams Brown and Kenny Yar-brough are also up for the position.
Presentations will be made in 
the Reitz Union, Room 2106, be-ginning at 10 a.m. Lara will give his presentation Wednesday, Wil-liams Brown on Thursday and 
Yarbrough on March 1, said Lizet 
Navarrete, MCDA’s administrative support assistant. Atkins gave his presentation Monday.
Moisés Moreno-Rivera, the His-
panic-Latino Affairs graduate assis-tant, said the committee will make a recommendation, but the hiring manager will choose who gets it.
“If the committee feels that it 
likes a respective candidate, and if they feel a certain way, there could be a high chance it could be sooner 
than Spring Break,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  UF holds interviews for 
MCDA director position
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
In a span of two days last week, 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce 
lost a former Lieutenant and a 911 dispatcher, one to illness and the other to suicide.
The deaths, which came Tues-
day and Wednesday, spurred 
memorial services and a sense of 
mourning at the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
Retired Lt. John Henry Nobles, 
68, who died of an unexpected ill-
ness Tuesday, had been employed by ACSO for 25 years, until his re-tirement in 2000. He also served in Vietnam as a member of the U.S. Army.
Matthew Russell, 30, who took 
his own life Wednesday, worked for ﬁ  ve years as a 911 dispatcher for the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
Nobles’ life was celebrated Sat-
urday at the First Baptist Church of Gainesville. He is survived by his wife, Deborah; his children, April and John; and three grandchildren 
— one of whom is carrying on No-
bles’ legacy as an ACSO deputy.
Members of ACSO carried No-
bles’ casket through Forest Mead-ows Cemetery-West just before giv-ing him a 21-gun salute.
“It was overwhelming, the 
respect that was given to him,” Deborah Nobles said. “It was well 
deserved.” 
Nobles’ nephew, John Hughes, 
said Nobles’ illness may have been 
due to his time serving in Vietnam, where inhalation of the herbicide Agent Orange was common.
“He was a very giving person — he took care of his family, a de-voted father and husband,” said Hughes, who was named after his uncle. “To his grandchildren, he gave his all.”
Russell, whose funeral was held 
Monday at Williams-Thomas We-starea funeral home in Newberry, is survived by his parents, Brent 
and Jana; his brother, Anthony; 
his wife, Courtney; and his young daughter, Aubrey.
After the service, a friend of Rus-
sell’s took Aubrey on his lap and revved the red Jeep Grand Chero-kee her father was so famously known for driving. 
Lifelong friend Brandon Starr 
said he’ll always remember Russell as the most generous person in his life — the type of person to take a call at 3 a.m.
“He touched many lives,” said 
Ashley Laux, another friend of Rus-sell’s. “If you were lucky enough to know him, there’s not a bad thing you could say about him.” Alachua County Sheriﬀ  ’s Oﬃ   ce 
mourns two deaths in one week
Nobles
 Russell
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Our Endorsement: 
The amendments 
deserve your vote
It has been a hectic two years in Student Government. Minori-
ty parties surface every few semesters, almost like clockwork, running on promises of being a voice for students outside of the majority party. Access Party was no exception. Despite being among the few minority parties to win the executive 
ticket, the fall of Access has come and gone, leaving only one ex-ecutive ticket on today’s and Wednesday’s ballot: Impact Party. 
It’s an undisputed fact that Smith Meyers, Mario Agosto and 
Revel Lubin will become the next Student Body president, vice president and treasurer, respectively. Though no representatives from Impact, Progress or independent senators reached out to the Alligator for an endorsement meeting, we at the Alligator want to draw your attention to the part of the ballot you’ve heard little about: the amendments. 
If you voted last Spring, you might remember seeing online 
voting on the ballot. Today and Wednesday, you’ll be seeing that same amendment again along with 10 others. 
You may now be asking yourself, “Why am I voting on this 
again?” First, some history.
The UF Supreme Court Chief Justice reasons that he chose 
to look into how votes were counted during Summer 2016. He brought his findings to the Student Body president, who then asked him to continue looking into it. Between Summer A and 
B, during that one week, UF’s Supreme Court met, and then it 
released an opinion overturning four amendments to the UF SG constitution, which date as far back as 2008.
The amendments overturned are the following: allowing 
remote online voting, reducing the number of available senate seats, reducing the amount of petition signatures needed from the Student Body and adding genetic information in SG’s anti-discrimination policy. According to Robert’s Rules of Order, ab-stention votes where voters decide not to check yes or no, aren’t 
counted as a vote. But in the Supreme Court’s ruling, the justices 
stated the amendments shouldn’t have passed because some stu-dents chose not to check yes or no on the ballot, and these stu-dents were still part of the voting population. Because of that, the 60 percent of students needed to pass online voting dropped from 68 percent to 56.5 percent.
And then, just like that, remote online voting was killed, along 
with other amendments.
SG’s majority party, Impact, once supported online voting. 
In fact, during the only debate last semester, then Student Body presidential candidate Susan Webster announced, “The Impact Party stands behind online voting 150 percent.” We hope they are true to their word and encourage their supporters to vote for online voting.
Despite some of these election results having been certified for 
upward of eight years, these amendments were overturned with-out the input of the Student Body — a Student Body that funds SG’s $20,038,152 budget. 
If this makes you angry, vote. If you want your voice heard, 
vote. But the only way to do this is to cast a ballot today or Wednesday.
Our democracy was built on the idea that the people should 
have a voice in government. A democracy ceases to exist when the people cease to care. A democracy falls when a few elites con-trol everything. A democracy does not work without you. 
Your vote could give marginalized groups who have fought 
for representation the chance to be heard. So vote. The Alligator’s amendment recommendations
We’ve done the hard part for you. With Student 
Government elections taking place today and Wednesday, here’s how we think you should vote on the amendments listed on the ballot and why.
Yes on 1
In a gist: Amendment 1 asks whether UF’s Student Gov-
ernment should be in full compliance with all federal and 
state nondiscrimination and equal opportunity laws, orders 
and regulations and shall adhere to UF nondiscrimination policies.
Why we support it: We at the Alligator believe that all 
methods of preserving this will only benefit UF. As a govern-ing body overseeing a $20 million budget, SG should be held to the same equal opportunity.
No on 2In a gist: Student Senate currently has 100 senators, and 
Amendment 2 would keep it at that versus the original 120. If struck down, students will be able to vote for 10 more sena-tors for both Fall and Spring elections. 
Why we don’t support it: We don’t know much about 
the history of the other 20 seats, but more seats mean more representation.
Yes on 3In a gist: Amendment 3 asks whether Summer replace-
ment senators should be appointed at the last meeting of the 
Spring semester. Currently, the SG constitution requires re-
placement senators be confirmed by the Student Senate by May 1. 
Why we support it: With Student Senate not holding meet-
ings during the time between Spring semester and Summer A, this can leave a lot of empty seats and a lot of students un-represented. Having senators chosen before the end of Spring would ensure students are more continuously represented. 
Yes on 5
In a gist: Amendment 5 establishes term limits for the 
heads of executive departments in SG. This would set that 
the terms of the persons expire with the regular terms of the elected executive ticket, meaning the Student Body presi-dent, vice president and treasurer serve about one year. 
Why we support it: Term limits incentivize those in ex-
ecutive positions to get their agenda done in a year, and it creates more cohesion for the president to carry out his or her policies.
Yes on 6In a gist: Amendment 6 concerns whether remote online 
voting should be allowed.
Why we support it: Online voting would the voting Stu-
dent Body. About a week ago, 2,420 students were admitted to PaCE, where students take their first 60 credits online. Innovation Academy, where students aren’t on campus in Fall, admitted 979. If you’re lucky enough to be on campus and cast a vote, there’s no reason students who work just as 
hard as you shouldn’t.
No on 8
In a gist: Amendment 8 would allow for the SG Elections 
Commission to determine if petitions made by students have accurate summaries before going on the ballot. If not, the Commission would be able to modify the summary before sending it to be on the ballot.
Why we don’t support it: It is the concern of the Alligator 
that by making petition summaries reviewable solely by the 
Elections Commission and the Supervisor of Elections that 
this could exclude the makers of the petition and jeopardize the language students petition for. 
No on 11In a gist: Amendment 11 asks whether the Replacement 
and Agenda Committee should have authority to choose Summer replacements for senators who won’t be there dur-ing Summer. Currently, senators choose their own replace-ments.
Why we don’t support it: We believe senators should 
choose who replaces them. By giving the committee the power, which is typically controlled by the majority party, it renders independent and minority senators voiceless. 
The Alligator chose not to endorse Amendments 4, 7, 9 
and 10 due to not being to predict the possible effects of the amendments if passed or failed.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
Growing up, I was taught to fear stu-
dent debt — even when I didn’t truly understand what it was. This lesson didn’t really come from my parents, who worked full time to pay their 
way through school, but from the horror sto-ries of twenty-something-year-olds haunted by six-ﬁ  gure debt that so often appeared in the news. As I’ve continued my education, these stories have appeared to increase in both fre-quency and urgency. I often manage to con-vince myself that this is probably due to my own hyperawareness, but it does seem as though the coverage surrounding the student-debt epidemic is at an all-time high. 
The majority of this coverage paints a grim 
picture, detailing the growing amount of stu-dents defaulting on their loans and a record-high number of adults over 60 co-signing on these loans and struggling to repay their own portion. It’s easy to breeze over the statistics, ﬁ  nancial jargon and clinical tone, leaving you with little indication of what it all means for you.
Leading up to college, no one in 
my high school really talked about debt, as it was assumed that the few kids attending pricey out-of-state schools would be funded entirely by their parents. It was still an abstract concept when an admissions slide-show for one of those out-of-state schools presented the $60,000 an-nual price tag, surrounded by seem-ingly arbitrary breakdowns of additional living expenses. 
I knew it was a lot of money and breathed 
a sigh of relief when I realized I could essen-tially attend UF for free through a combination of Florida Bright Futures and Florida Prepaid. In retrospect, attending UF was the smart-est ﬁ  nancial decision I could’ve made, even though I merely stumbled into that decision by chance. I knew attending graduate 
school would be expensive. But again, it remained an abstract concept even as I researched and compared tuition and cost-of-living expenses. Now, as seat deposit deadlines loom closer, the reality of taking on debt before I even enter the professional world is, well, ter-rifying.
That terror is blatantly appar-
ent on the law school admissions 
forums (also known as Dante’s 10th circle of hell), as clueless college students seek counsel from equally clueless college students on how much debt they can and should incur. The an-swer is almost invariably that no one knows for sure, it’s merely a matter of how much risk one wants to take.
Last semester, I wrote a column about 
the shift in discourse surrounding education that increasingly characterizes it as a capital-ist endeavor. Continuing with that school of thought, one can choose to see student loans as an investment in your own earning poten-tial. Like all investments, it carries a certain amount of risk, risk that law school gradu-ates ﬁ  ve years ago were forced to reckon with through declining job prospects. 
A few weeks ago, I sat in on a law class 
at a school I was visiting and eventually be-gan to discuss my admissions process with the professor. When I mentioned how scholarship offers would play a pivotal role in my decision, he stated, “It used to be that students would just go to the highest ranked school, now all they seem to care about is money.” Whether this is a sign of heightened ﬁ  nancial sensibility or just rising costs of education remains uncer-tain, it’s obvious that many of us are simply aware of the risk and trying to mitigate it.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
Student loans: Are they a responsible investment or debilitating burden?Column
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
TAKING CARE 
OF BUSINESS
352-226-3879
tcbautosinc.com
2027 NE 27th AveAUTO SALES
by appointment only
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Tyler James normally avoids 
Turlington Plaza, but on Monday he 
stopped to talk to a Student Govern-ment party he’s never heard of.
James, 22, was one of more than 
100 students who received a small orange ﬂ  ier that had information about Progress Party. He talked to one of its seven members. It was the party’s ﬁ  rst day asking students for ideas for its platform. 
“I’ve seen everything from Stu-
dent and Swamp Party to now,” the UF doctoral health education and behavior student said.
Progress Party President Casey 
Witte said the response from stu-dents to his newly created party has been positive. 
“Everyone we talked to has reso-nated with our message of transpar-ency but didn’t know the elections were coming up,” he said. “Not a single person.”
Impact Party also released its 
ofﬁ  cial platform Monday, Impact spokesperson Janae Moodie said. 
After talking with students and 
determining what other large pub-lic universities have done, Impact wanted to push for a large building that would include amenities like a new recreation center, counseling and wellness center and inﬁ  rmary, she said.
Also on Impact’s platform is 
a proposed online marketplace, which would be similar to Facebook pages UF students create to adver-
tise and sell items. But it would be 
more secure and require students to login with their Gator 1 Card, she said.
Moodie said all of the platform ideas came from student sugges-tions and party leadership discuss-ing which suggestions were achiev-able. 
“We are not limited to the plat-
form we have,” Moodie said. “We’ll always be talking to the Student 
Body to see what else they want 
done.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
 Impact releases platform, Progress talks to studentsAmendment 1:
Should the Student Body constitu-
tion be updated and amended to 
reﬂ  ect UF’s anti-discrimination 
policy and read in part, Article I, 
Section 4, “Student Government and any organization that receives funds shall be in full compliance with all federal and state nondis-crimination and equal opportu-nity laws, orders, and regulations and shall adhere to University of 
Florida nondiscrimination poli-
cies?”
 Amendment 2:
Should the Student Body consti-
tution be updated and amended 
to decrease the maximum com-
position of the Fall or Spring 
class of Student Senate from 
60 members to 50 members and 
change the relevant parts of Ar-ticle III, Section 2 to read: “FALL CLASS.—40 to 50 members elect-
ed in the Fall general election 
as apportioned by law from on-
campus area governments as de-ﬁ  ned by law and from off-campus areas as deﬁ  ned by law. SPRING 
CLASS.—40 to 50 members elect-
ed in the Spring general election 
from the colleges and independent 
schools recognized by the student 
senate as deﬁ  ned by law?”
Amendment 3: 
Should the Student Body constitu-
tion be updated and amended to 
allow summer replacement
Senators to be appointed at the 
last meeting of the Spring se-mester and amend Article III,
Section 4 to read in part, “The 
Student Senate during the sum-
mer term shall have the same
authority as it does during the fall 
and spring terms. A Student Sena-
tor who will not attend the
summer academic term, or any 
portion of the term may nominate 
a Summer Replacement
Senator, subject to conﬁ  rmation 
by the Student Senate on the last 
meeting of spring term. The
summer replacement senator 
shall serve only during the sum-mer academic term, or designated
portion of the term. The student 
senator resumes ofﬁ  ce upon re-turn to the university?”  
Amendment 5:
Should the Student Body constitu-
tion be updated and amended to set executive department terms 
to serve concurrently with the 
elected Student Body executive of-
ﬁ  cers and read in part: “Article IV, 
Section 5: Executive departments may be established by Student Body law, with the head of each department to be appointed by the 
Student Body president and con-
ﬁ  rmed with at least a concurrence of 
a majority of the Student Senate. Of-
ﬁ  cers of the executive departments shall be responsible to the Student 
Body president for the execution of 
their duties and shall be subject to 
removal by the Student Body presi-
dent. The terms of the heads of the executive departments shall expire 
concurrently with the expiration of 
the regular terms of the elected ex-
ecutive ofﬁ  cials. The heads of the 
executive departments may appoint subordinate aides or other ofﬁ  cials 
not provided for by Student Body 
law, if deemed necessary?” Amendment 6:
Should the Student Body consti-
tution Article VI be updated and 
amended as follows, “Section 2: The Fall general election shall oc-
cur on the Tuesday of the sixth week of the Fall term,” “Section 3: The Spring general election shall occur on the Tuesday of the sixth week of the Spring term” and “Section 9: The executive branch shall guarantee veriﬁ  ed and se-
cured real-time online remote 
voting on election day in Stu-dent Government elections to 
all members of the electorate?”
Amendment 8:
Should the Student Body con-
stitution Article VIII, Section 2 
be updated to add the following 
clause: “The Elections Commis-
sion shall have the authority to determine if the petition has an accurate summary, and if it de-
termines it is not, to modify the 
summary so as to be accurate, and after making such determina-tion, shall in all cases forward the petition to the Supervisor of Elec-
tions for inclusion on the ballot. 
Such determinations shall be sub-ject to the Review of the Supreme 
Court?”
Amendment 11:
Should the Student Body con-
stitution Article III, Section 4 be 
amended to change the method 
in selecting Summer replace-
ment senators to the follow-ing: “The Student Senate during the Summer term shall have the 
same authority as it does during the Fall and Spring terms. A stu-
dent senator who will not attend 
the Summer academic term, or 
any portion of the term may va-
cate their seat for Summer. The vacant seat will then be decided by the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee and be subject to con-
ﬁ  rmation by the Student Senate. The Summer replacement senator shall serve only during the Sum-mer academic term, or designated 
portion of the term. The student 
senator resumes ofﬁ  ce upon re-turn to the university.” KEY AMENDMENT PROPOSALSTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
When Chase Werther 
learned that UF students 
aimed to make the univer-sity a sanctuary campus, she knew she wanted to 
bring the idea into the Stu-
dent Senate.  
The 20-year-old UF phi-
losophy and political sci-
ence sophomore said Stu-
dent Government should work to make UF as inclusive as possible
“I feel like UF is very concerned with the 
image of our school, opposed to bettering 
our school,” she said.
Werther plans to return to Senate after 
serving as a Summer A replacement senator 
for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences in Summer 2016. In Fall 2015 and Spring 2016, she ran for Senate with Access Party but lost. 
Werther said she was discouraged when 
the remote online voting amendment, along with three other amendments, were over-turned in Summer. Now, she wants to con-
tinue fighting for the implementation of on-
line voting, along with representing students who don’t align with Impact Party. 
She also wants to take more action to 
combat sexual assault, like bringing back Walk Safe, a program where students walk others home at night, she said.  
Werther said her previous Senate expe-
rience has prepared her to work for all stu-
dents. 
“I’m definitely very familiar with the way 
that everything is set up,” she said. “I can 
recognize issues that the other side isn’t re-ally recognizing.”
After he participated in 
his high school’s student government, Ivan Grela wants to bring his coop-erative nature to Student Senate. 
The 18-year-old UF bio-
chemistry and molecular 
biology freshman said he’s 
never been competitive, 
which allows him to work well with many 
different people.
“I always go out of my way to do the best 
that I can,” he said. “I always try my best and try to collaborate.” 
Grela said he worked with the student 
government at Coral Gables Senior High School in Coral Gables, Florida. During his senior year, he was the secretary of academ-ics and would organize events for the school. 
At UF, he wants to work with Progress to 
push for more funding for student organiza-tions to anyone with reasonable requests.
If elected, Grela said he wouldn’t have a 
problem working with Impact senators and 
would consider others’ opinions in Senate. 
Grela plans to meet with his possible con-
stituents to let them know what is going on 
in Student Government. He said he’s open to anyone’s input and wants students to come to him with questions. 
“I’m very organized, and I can carry my-
self,” he said. “I’m always open to trying new things.”
Stephen Keith wants 
students in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences to take advantage of ev-erything the college has to offer. 
The 19-year-old UF po-
litical science freshman 
said he’s running with 
Progress Party so students 
have another option on the ballot. He also 
wants to represent more perspectives besides those of Impact senators. 
“That’s pretty much the point of this party 
and why we created it, is to really be a rep-resentative for the whole Student Body,” he said. 
Keith said he joined Progress as the par-
ty’s treasurer after participating in student government at his high school, State College of Florida Collegiate School in Bradenton, Florida. 
He said he wants to help create a search 
engine or new web page for students to look up the different majors, minors and organiza-tions the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences offers.
He also plans to establish one calendar for 
university and student organization events. In order to create more transparency in Stu-dent Government, he and Progress want to email newsletters to students or post online about how SG spends its money. 
If elected, he said he would be excited to 
work with Impact to improve UF. 
“We can definitely come together and re-
ally figure out and do what’s best for students here at UF,” he said. 
After watching Im-
pact’s platform tracking videos, Stefan Sanguyo knew he wanted to be a part of the party. 
The 19-year-old UF 
criminology and law sophomore said he liked 
that Impact completed its promises, like establishing 
Chick-fil-A breakfast and hammock rentals on campus. 
If elected, Sanguyo said he wants to im-
prove the College of Liberal Arts and Scienc-es new career day, held in January, as a way for students to network.
“CLAS is a really big college, and it’s full 
of many diverse majors, and I feel like not a lot of students utilize the resources that are given by the college,” he said.
Sanguyo said he’s never been a part of 
Student Government but always wanted to join. As the current treasurer of the Asian American Student Union and member of the Air Force ROTC program, he has the com-munication and leadership skills to be a suc-
cessful senator, he said. 
His plans for Senate include working to 
install cameras to monitor popular spots 
on campus, such as Library West, Marston Science Library and Southwest Recreation-al Center, so students can see online how crowded the area is. 
“If I were to become a senator, I would 
just be really excited to meet new people and 
hear what everyone else has to say,” he said. As an Independent, 
Kevin Jarquin said he 
wants to stand apart from Impact senators and advo-cate for major changes on 
campus. 
The 19-year-old UF 
sport management sopho-
more said he wanted to run 
for Senate after watching 
Impact Party make small changes on campus but nothing big. 
“I work nonstop at something that I want 
to see accomplished,” he said. “Just because 
I’m not a big name on campus or represented 
by something big on campus, that doesn’t mean I’m not qualified for this position.” 
He wants to establish more crosswalks on 
campus and possibly add crosswalk lights in areas of high traffic, such as between Rawl-ings Hall and Marston Science Library, he said. 
He also wants to ask students which li-
brary should be open 24/7 and publish the 
results, he said. For clubs, he wants to evenly 
distribute funding between all UF student or-ganizations.
Jarquin, who was the student body secre-
tary his senior year of high school at South Miami Senior High School, is currently part of Hispanic Student Association’s  Mem-ber Leadership Program and Black Student Union’s Innovation Leadership Program.
As a senator, Jarquin said he wants to hear 
input from students of all backgrounds. 
“I’m always open to listening to ideas,” he 
said. “I’ll be out there every day until election day.”
Casey Witte has tried 
becoming a senator before, but this semester he band-ed together with others to form a new party.
Witte, Progress Party’s 
president, applied to run with Impact Party in Fall, but when he wasn’t cho-
sen, he ran against them 
as an independent. This semester, he’s trying for Senate again, this time with the support of Charlie Rash, his party’s vice president. 
“I would bring forward a lot of new pro-
grams and initiatives that I feel would benefit the student campus as a whole,” the 18-year-old UF finance freshman said.If elected, two of his goals are to establish 
remote online voting and increase funding for new and smaller student organizations, he said.
He also wants sophomores to be involved 
with more student organizations so younger students can find their niche at UF, he said. 
“When you get involved, you find things 
that you like, and when you find things that 
you like, you build careers, friends and net-
works,” Witte said. 
Witte said politics is collaborative, and 
nothing will get done without compromise with other senators if he is elected. 
“We need to build something off compro-
mise that the whole Student Body can agree on,” he said.
As Charlie Rash cam-
paigned, he learned from student organization presi-dents that they had a need for more funding from Stu-dent Government. 
One president told Rash 
that while the amount of 
students involved in the club doubled in a year, 
they still received the same amount of money. If elected, Rash, the vice president of Progress Party, intends to work with his party to ad-dress organization’s concerns regarding fund-ing. He said the same president told him that because of the lack of funding, members’ 
dues increased, causing some students to 
leave the club. “Clubs should not get defunded,” he said. 
“That’s terrible for a university of this size.”
Rash, an 18-year-old UF finance freshman, 
said Progress was created to represent all stu-dents and address that the majority of Senate seats are held by Impact Party members. 
“We see that Progress Party is more of a 
voice for people who don’t have one, and that’s reflected in all our candidates,” he said. 
If elected, Rash said he would work with 
Impact senators but would always voice his opinion, including advocating for online vot-ing. 
“Most people won’t really take the time 
to go to a polling location and vote,” he said. “Online voting would help people who 
wouldn’t normally take the time to vote to 
have a voice in Student Government.”
As AviChaim Snyder, 
20, used the Student Government-established free parking at Southwest Recreation Center and re-
ceived ponchos on rainy days, he knew he wanted 
to join Impact Party. 
Snyder said he was 
impressed that Impact 
Party ran a positive campaign in Fall and de-
cided he would work to be involved with SG by running for Senate. 
“We’re here for all the students,” the UF 
political science sophomore said. “(Impact) wanted the same tangible change that I 
want.” 
In high school, he served as the student 
body president of Ben Gamla Charter School in Hollywood, Florida. Now, he wants to 
work to reach out to students through social media to inform them about UF’s organiza-tions like U Matter, We Care. 
As a potential sophomore senator, Snyder 
said he wants to support incoming freshman with sophomore-level credits by providing 
them an easy way to contact student orga-
nizations.
“Even though there’s about 50,000 stu-
dents here, (I want to) make it so you can contact anyone if you have any questions,” he said.  
Snyder, who is involved in Gators for Is-
rael as the director of information, is also a member of the fraternity Lambda Chi Alpha.
“If I’m elected, I’m lucky to have been 
elected,” he said. “I’ll do that best that I can do.”
Liberal Arts and Sciences candidates
Chase Werther - Independent  
Ivan Grela - Progress 
Stephen Keith - Progress 
Stefan Sanguyo - Impact  Sophomore candidates
Kevin Jarquin - Independent
 Casey Witte - Progress 
Charlie Rash - Progress 
AviChaim Snyder - Impact 
Snyder
Witte
Rash
Sanguyo
SENATE PROFILES
Polls will be open today and Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Werther
Grela
Jarquin
Keith
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2Volunteers of America is offering
FREE, ALL-INCLUSIVE 
HOUSING FOR
HOMELESS VETERANS
in a friendly, supportive atmosphere.
Please call Woody at 352-642-8313
for immediate move-in!
2-22-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
JEEP WRANGLER UNLIMITED
For sale, 2016, white 4 door, 3810 miles, $38,000, or $10,000 and take over pay-ments. Call 225-239-8512    2-21-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Assessment Writers/Editors
Progress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center currently has openings for swim instructors who love work-ing with children. Must be friendly, enthusias -
tic, reliable, and self-motivated. Possibility of add'l hours in other depts.Apply at suncountrysports.com/jobs     2-24-17-5-14
HPM at UF Health/Shands Hospital is seek-ing valet attendants. Must be able to drive a manual/stick shift, have a valid driver's license, and clean driving history (≤ 6pts in 3 yrs). Call (352) 594-6231 or E-Mail SWilliams@717parking.com     2-27-17-5-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Retired machinist, movie prop maker, artifi-cer seeks artist / sculpter to share studio in Cross Creek. No cost. I would like company & to help each other with art. Contact Swamp Wizard 352-466-0115, cromt@bellsouth.net    2-27-17-5-19
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ACROSS
1 One in a bad
mood
5 Diplomat’s asset
9 Vatican-related
14 Memorization
method
15 Patron saint of
Norway
16 Nimble17 High-tech
bookmark
20 African language
group
21 Winter bug
22 Cupid’s
counterpart
23 Safari beast
26 Mystery writer
whose Baltimorehome ispreserved as amuseum
28 Office gossip
35 Moved quickly,
old-style
36 Meat inspector’s
org.
37 “Awesome!”
38 Office coffee
holder, perhaps
39 Hard-rock link
40 “O Sole __”
42 1965 march
state: Abbr.
43 Gold or silver
45 Rainbow flag
initialism
47 Gillette’s __ II
razor
48 Right granted in
the FirstAmendment
51 Bubbly prefix52 Clapton classic53 Gem from
Australia
56 Private eye58 Go around in
circles?
62 “Et tu, Brute?,” e.g.
66 Pat down
67 Inbox clogger
68 Pamplona parlor69 Sight or hearing70 Wine city near
Turin
71 River of central
Germany
DOWN
1 Bed with sliding
sides
2 Author Jaffe3 Mail-routing abbr.
4 Obviously
embarrassed
5 Weigh station unit6 Pub offering7 Science Diet
product
8 Nonstick kitchen
brand
9 Sketching tablet
10 Shake hands on
11 Harbor strolling
spot
12 “One more 
thing ... ”
13 Not as much
18 Industrial area of
western Germany
19 Play for a sucker
24 Post-op areas,
briefly
25 Margarita option27 Ricelike pasta28 Sound of a tree
falling, say
29 Broadcaster
30 __-one: long
odds
31 Kappa follower
32 Informed (of)
33 Pale purple
34 Stacy who
played MikeHammer39 Out of the wind
41 “The __-bitsy
spider ... ”
44 Completely
flummoxed
46 Easy-to-swallow
meds
47 Flowering 
hybrid with 
thorns
49 Phased-out PC
screens
50 Farm machine53 Does in, mob-
style
54 Whittle (down)
55 Idi of Uganda57 Big cat of film59 Actor Pitt
60 Vegging out
61 Many an Ivan, in
old Russia
63 Lute kin64 Gained a lap?65 “No more 
deets!”
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/21/1702/21/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, February 21, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior Tyshara Fleming has to step up for the UF women's basketball team, which is dealing with the loss of starting forward Haley Lorenzen. Read the story, pg. 14Women's golf ﬁ  nishes second in tournament 
After three days of competition, the UF women's gold team ﬁ  nishes second 
in the Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Championship with a score of 10-
over par. The Stanford Cardinal took ﬁ  rst at one under. MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
No. 13 Florida doesn’t feel like 
a team that’s won eight games in 
a row. 
Starting center John Egbunu 
tore his ACL last week, ending his season.Backup big man Gorjok Gak 
sprained his foot, sidelining him for two weeks.
And UF’s leading scorer, 
Canyon Barry, rolled his ankle, missed practice and will be a game-time decision for tonight’s rematch with South Carolina (20-7, 10-4 SEC) in the O’Connell Center. 
The Gamecocks dealt Florida 
(22-5, 12-2 SEC) its ﬁ  rst confer-ence loss of the season when they beat UF 57-53 in Columbia on Jan. 18.
South Carolina defended Flori-
da better than any team this year, holding the Gators to a season-low 35.2 percent shooting from the ﬁ  eld. 
In that game, the Gamecocks 
also became the ﬁ  rst team in more than 20 years to keep UF from making a single three-pointer. 
Coach Mike White knows Flor-
ida can’t repeat that performance and expect a different result. 
“Don’t go 0-for-17 from three,” 
White said on Monday. “We’ve got to go at least 1-for-17 to have a better shot.”
That could be a challenge 
without Barry, the graduate trans-fer who’s shooting above 35 per-cent from beyond the arc. Only one player on UF’s roster — KeV-aughn Allen — has made more three-pointers than Barry. 
White said Barry’s rolled ankle 
isn’t as severe as it was when he rolled it earlier in the season, but there’s still swelling, and he 
didn’t conﬁ  rm that Barry will play 
tonight. 
But Florida’s biggest concern 
is the center position without Eg-
bunu. 
“I don’t want to make it out 
like we lost an All-American,” White said. “But John, for us, was terriﬁ  c.
“John would clean up six or 
seven mistakes a game, which al-lowed us to be a top-ﬁ  ve defen-sive team in the country.”
Florida guards no longer have 
the luxury of getting beat by their man and relying on their 6-foot-11, 255-pound center to cover for them. 
But Florida’s second-string Florida ﬁ  lling holes before South CarolinaIT'S COHEN DOWN
With Egbunu 
out, Florida’s 
season is done
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Canyon Barry drives into the paint during Florida's 71-62 win against T exas A&M on Feb. 11. Barry's status entering tonight's game is uncertain because of an ankle injury. 
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
 This will be an unpopular column.
So, before I begin, allow me 
to start by rattling off a series of opinions. If you’re a Gators fan, this will likely make you hate me 
with all the boiling rage of an anony-mous commenter on the internet who just lost his fourth straight goblin battle in World of Warcraft and really needs to let off some steam. 
I only do this in the hopes that after 
I am done, the words that follow will 
seem tame in comparison, and so you 
will be able to absorb them better than 
you would have otherwise.
So. Let’s begin.
Urban Meyer was right to leave Flori-
da. Tim Tebow was an overrated college football player. Steve Spurrier was an 
average coach in a weak SEC with a ter-
ribly unstylish visor. The Gator Chomp 
is one of the cheesiest celebrations in 
collegiate sports. LSU is the real DBU.
Whew. Glad that’s done. Happy you 
made it this far. 
Let’s continue.
*Clears throat*
The Florida basketball team’s season 
is done.
A week ago, UF lost its starting cen-
ter — John Egbunu — to a torn ACL. 
He’s out for the season. It’ll take him 10 
to 12 months to recover.
I repeat: The Florida basketball 
team’s season is done.
Let me explain.
Egbunu is not Florida’s best all-
around player. On any given night, that honor probably belongs to either KeV-
aughn Allen, Justin Leon, Kasey Hill, 
Devin Robinson or Canyon Barry, but it 
has never been the same player every 
night, and it probably never will be. 
This is a team with depth, where 
multiple players have the ability to take 
the lead on different nights, but never consistently and usually not all at the 
same time.
This is also a team that needs to come By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Midway through her beam 
routine, Kennedy Baker wob-
bled.
A normally consistent per-
former, this time was different.
She landed her straddle half 
turn on her left ankle, trying to regain her balance for a mo-ment before falling off com-pletely.
It’s a skill that she does week in and week out, hitting it every time in her first four attempts before that.
It took her just a second 
to compose herself before she mounted the beam and fin-ished off the routine, visibly disappointed.
The mistake was uncharac-
teristic for the junior All-Amer-ican who has already won two all-arounds this season, but who has been battling illness the last two meets.
While the fall didn’t help the team score of 197.125, its second-lowest of the season, it did show that Florida could battle back when faced with challenging circumstances on the road.
“I think the team handled 
and reacted to that pressure quite well,” Florida coach Jen-ny Rowland said. “The team did their job.”
Fellow junior Alex McMur-
try had her own struggles.
On her last tumbling pass, 
she ran out of steam, landing her double tuck on her ankles in her season 
floor and all-around de-buts.
But Row-
land is confi-
dent that McMurtry will move past the mistake.
“If anything, I think it’s just 
going to fuel the fire a little bit 
 UF battling back under uncertain circumstancesSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15McMurtry
GYMNASTICS14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time this season, 
Haley Lorenzen was not in the start-
ing lineup for Florida when it tipped off against the Kentucky Wildcats.
She wasn’t even in uniform.
Instead, the 6-foot-3 junior for-
ward from Iowa City, Iowa, donned 
a black T-shirt, orange sweatpants and an oversized walking boot on her right foot as she sat on the side-lines of Memorial Coliseum and watched her teammates lose by 19 points on Sunday.
Lorenzen, who suffered a 
sprained ankle earlier in the week against Missouri, didn’t play in a game for the second time in her col-legiate career.
In her absence, the Gators (13-
14, 4-10 SEC) struggled mightily on the glass, allowing Kentucky to convert 13 offensive boards into 25 second-chance points.
UF is normally one of the better 
interior teams in the SEC, averaging 41 rebounds per game. However, with Lorenzen unavailable to play against the Wildcats this weekend, coach Amanda Butler noticed a 
signiﬁ  cant difference in her team’s 
ability to control the front court.
“It was really disappointing 
when she went down,” Butler said. “It impacted our defensive pres-ence, and it certainly impacted our rebounding.”
Lorenzen has been one of Flor-
ida’s most consistent players this 
season, ranking ﬁ  rst on the team in 
blocked shots, second in points per game and minutes per game and third in ﬁ  eld-goal percentage and rebounds.
The junior also possesses the 
ability to spread the ﬂ  oor, knock-ing down 39.1 percent of her three-point jumpers.
But the Gators may have to con-
tinue to play without their depend-able upperclassman for upcoming contests against Tennessee and 
Georgia, as Butler listed Lorenzen 
as “day-to-day” on Monday and said she was unsure of her player’s 
status over the next week.“We have (Monday) off to recol-
lect, to gather ourselves, get needed 
rest and rehab and hopefully get 
Haley back on the court for us,” 
Butler said. “But ankle sprains are tough.”
In Lorenzen’s place, UF will 
look to get more out of senior cen-ter Tyshara Fleming, who started on Sunday for the ﬁ  rst time since Jan. 12 and totaled 10 points and eight rebounds in 22 minutes of ac-
tion before fouling out in the fourth 
quarter.
Fleming leads Florida in ﬁ  eld-
goal percentage and rebounds per game in SEC play this season and has scored in double ﬁ  gures 10 times, earning the conﬁ  dence of her coach to be a reliable option with Lorenzen potentially unavailable.
“She is a really, really important 
member of what we’re doing for a lot of different reasons,” Butler said of Fleming. “She’s good enough to 
be in that starting ﬁ  ve for us.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
Gators missing forward Lorenzen 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF forward Haley Lorenzen drives to the rim in UF’s 74-67 loss to 
Missouri on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. 
Haley Lorenzen Season Statistics12.3 points per game6.4 rebound per game29.8 minutes per game1.3 blocks per gameTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
center has proved himself 
serviceable. 
Forward Kevarrius Hayes 
started in place of Egbunu 
against Mississippi State on 
Saturday and pulled in a ca-reer-high 10 rebounds and four 
blocks.
“It felt good,” Hayes said, 
“seeing that I was able to be dependable kind of helped my 
team win. It felt good being a 
factor.”
But Hayes also said dealing 
with the newfound pressure is stressful. 
Mississippi State attacked 
the rim right away with Egbunu 
out on Saturday, and Hayes said 
he’ll take the opening minutes 
of tonight’s game as a challenge. 
Because with Gak out, if 
Hayes gets into foul trouble, 
there are no high-level paint-
presence defenders to come off 
the bench. 
White said Hayes may need 
to recreate his performance against Mississippi State to 
give the Gators a chance to win 
tonight. 
“There’s pressure on him 
to do so,” White said. “I don’t 
know if we can get away with 
him not having a game like 
that.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg.13Hayes 
grabbed 10 boards on Saturdaytogether as a group to achieve a 
common goal. And yes, while that may sound obvious (and while you may have just looked up the defini-
tion of “team” on the internet and 
found that I just copy and pasted that exact phrase from Google), it 
is especially true in Florida’s case. 
If one player were to go down, 
it would be difficult for the Gators 
to recover.
But if one of its centers were to 
go down, it would be nearly impos-sible for the Gators to recover. 
The Gators rely so much on their 
center position — it is their rim-protector, their shot-blocker, their 
main rebounder and their last line 
of defense against driving wings 
and guards. And for those reasons, 
depth at the center position is the most important aspect of this team. Without at least two quality bigs 
who can give each other rest or 
relieve one another in case of foul 
trouble, Florida’s interior defense falls apart.
And the only other quality cen-
ter on Florida’s roster is sophomore 
Kevarrius Hayes.
Yes, there’s also walk-on Schuy-
ler Rimmer, but let’s be honest. 
He’s really just the break-glass-
in-case-of-emergency option that 
would cause most Gator fans to 
wake up screaming from the dream in which UF was forced to rely on Rimmer in meaningful NCAA Tour-
nament games.
Well, Gators fans, welcome to 
your nightmare.
Without Egbunu, Florida will 
start Hayes — a very serviceable 
replacement and, in my opinion, 
one of the most underrated players 
on UF’s roster — and have Rim-
mer come off the bench. Reluc-
tantly, UF coach Mike White will 
play some small-ball lineups, with 
6-foot-8 forwards Keith Stone and 
Justin Leon at the center position. 
“Not out of want,” White admit-ted on Friday, “but out of neces-
sity.”
Necessity.With just four games left in UF's 
regular season and missing one of 
its most important cogs, White and his coaching staff are faced with the unenviable task of trying to 
implement new lineups, strategies 
and role changes, all because Eg-bunu went down. 
Not because they want to. But 
because they need to.
And for a Florida team that 
relied so much on its interior de-
fense, it may be too little, too late.
Florida may still have a chance 
at winning the SEC Tournament in March, and it’ll almost assuredly make the NCAA Tournament after that. 
But all other plans — a possible 
Elite Eight run, maybe even further — can be put to bed.
Not without their starting cen-
ter. Not with Schuyler Rimmer as your primary backup.
For those reasons, Gators fans, 
your season is done.
Maybe next year.COLUMN,  from pg.15
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kevarrius Hayes protects the paint during Florida's 71-65 win over T exas A&M on Feb. 11 in the O'Connell Center. Hayes is starting at center for the injured John Egbunu. 
more,” Rowland said. “She’s one that does a very good job of be-ing able to keep things in real-ity.”
As a team, the meet was not 
the sharpest of the season for the Gators, but the lack of team consistency did allow individual gymnasts to shine.
Freshman Sierra Alexander, 
who has now completed three straight times on vault after not competing the first four meets, led off the vault rotation with a 9.80 for the second meet in a row after earning a 9.725 in her first 
attempt at Alabama.
“Sierra is just improving 
daily,” Rowland said. “She has 
a spirit about her that is conta-
gious, that’s energetic. She has 
the desire and the will to con-
tinue to get better.”
Sophomore Alicia Boren also 
nabbed her second straight all-around title, her third of the sea-son, scoring a meet-high 9.950 on floor in the win over Arkan-sas.
The meet left the Gators with 
room to improve, a task they are not taking lightly.
“I think there was a bit of a 
missed opportunity in general,” Rowland said. “(I’m) looking 
forward to getting back to where 
we know this team is capable of 
being.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg.13Alexander 'improving daily'
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs her floor routine during Florida's win over Auburn on Jan. 27 in the 
O'Connell Center. 
“I'm looking forward to 
getting back to where we 
know this team is capable of 
being."
Jenny Rowland
UF gymnastics coach 16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2017
MEN’S TENNIS
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
Florida faced three ranked op-
ponents over the weekend in the 
ITA National Team Indoor Cham-
pionships.
The No. 6 Gators (7-3) lost 
two of their three matchups at 
the University of Virginia’s Sny-
der Tennis Center.
The first Gators loss came on 
Friday in a first-round matchup against No. 11 Texas.
The Longhorns made quick 
work of Florida on the doubles court, winning matchups over new Florida pairings in the sec-
ond and third positions. Texas 
closed out the victory in singles play by taking victories over Florida’s Elliott Orkin, McClain Kessler and Jordan Belga in the 
three, five and six positions, re-
spectively.
“We have to perform better 
as a team in the critical points in 
these matches,” UF coach Bryan 
Shelton said in a release. “We had a lot of opportunities that we created, but we just did not capi-talize on enough of them.”
The loss to Texas forced the 
Gators into the consolation brack-et, where they met No. 16 Missis-sippi State in the second round.
The Bulldogs also took the 
doubles point over Florida.On court one, the pair of Niclas 
Braun and Trevor Foshey handed the No. 7-ranked Florida duo of 
Alfredo Perez and Johannes In-
gildsen its first loss of the 2017 dual season.
However, the script flipped 
in favor of the Gators in singles 
play.
Of the six singles matches, 
Florida either won or was leading 
in all matches as it advanced to 
the third round of the consolation 
bracket to face No. 14 Oklahoma.
Against the Sooners, the 
Gators started off playing well.
The veteran pair of Josh 
Wardell and Maxx Lipman cap-tured its first doubles victory of the season, leading the Gators to their first doubles victory in five 
team matches.
Yet their success in doubles 
didn’t translate into singles play 
for the Gators.
Perez, the No. 9 singles player 
nationally, was handed his first loss of 2017 against Oklahoma, losing to OU’s Spencer Papa in two hard-fought, tie-breaking 
sets.
Losing results held for the 
Gators on courts two, three and 
four, while the only singles vic-tory came from Kessler on court five.
But despite falling twice in 
Charlottesville, it wasn’t all bad news for Florida.
The Gators were able to climb 
out of their doubles slump, find-
ing good performances from the 
pairs of Wardell and Lipman and Chase Perez-Blanco and Orkin.
The weekend also showed 
continued growth for sophomore 
standout Perez, who defeated two 
opponents ranked in the top five nationally in No. 5 Christian Sigs-gaard of Texas and No. 3 Nuno 
Borges of Mississippi State.
Additionally, Florida was one 
of three SEC teams to participate 
in the ITA Indoors, giving it valu-able experience against top com-
petition in comparison to much of 
its SEC opponents.
“Our guys fought extremely 
hard throughout this whole tour-
nament,” Shelton said. “We have 
a high-character group, and that was evident in our two losses. That gives me confidence that we will continue to work the right 
way to keep getting better.”
And the experience taken from 
ITA Indoors will prove valu-
able for the Gators in their next 
matchup against No. 3 Ohio 
State, a team that made it to the finals of the ITA Indoors only to fall to the tournament’s host, No. 1 Virginia.
 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgNo. 6 Gators flop at ITA National Team Indoor Championships
BASEBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Three weeks before his team’s 
season opener, Kevin O’Sullivan 
sat on the bench inside the first base dugout at McKethan Stadium and spoke to reporters.
UF’s coach addressed pressing 
topics such as his weekend start-ers, the bullpen and the positional battle at first base. 
What wasn’t mentioned, how-
ever, was how Florida would ad-just to playing midweek games be-hind someone other than Jackson Kowar or Scott Moss. The two hurl-ers were a main reason UF went a perfect 14-0 in midweek battles last year. 
That someone is right-hander 
Michael Byrne.
After earning his first career win 
by holding William & Mary score-less for three innings on Friday, the sophomore will garner another first tonight against the Jackson-ville University Dolphins: his first career start.
But it’s not as if Byrne is inex-
perienced. 
The 6-foot-2, 205-pounder 
flashed streaks of his capabilities as a freshman last season. O’Sullivan called on Byrne’s 
number 13 times out of the ‘pen last year, and he delivered a serviceable 3.94 ERA in 16 relief innings. 
Though he pitched in the shad-
ows of recently drafted teammates like Shaun Anderson, Kirby Snead and Dane Dunning in 2016, Byrne’s start tonight marks an opportunity to solidify his role as the Gators’ top midweek starter. Byrne’s outing may be brief, 
however, as O’Sullivan will likely throw a number of arms at the Dol-phins to help get a feel for his bull-pen before a top-25 matchup with Miami this coming weekend. 
“I’m very, very optimistic about 
our bullpen,” O’Sullivan said in a release after Sunday’s game. “It’s going to be good. It’s just a matter of when those guys have the light come on and it clicks for them.”
For O’Sullivan, tonight’s contest 
could also mean more than anoth-er win that prepares the Gators for teams like Miami and many SEC opponents. 
It could become a career high-
light of his own. 
O’Sullivan is seeking to become 
UF’s fastest head coach to reach 400 career wins. He needs one more victory to etch his name in Florida’s record books. 
A win would also make 
O’Sullivan the third coach in pro-gram history with 400 or more ca-reer wins. He owns a higher win-ning percentage (.679) than the two names ahead of him —  Joe Ar-nold (.640) and Dave Fuller (.611). 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFlorida facing adjustments heading into today’s gameCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Alfredo Perez prepares to return a ball during Florida’s 4-2 win against UCLA on Feb. 5 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan shakes hands with an umpire in UF’s 8-1 against William & Mary on Saturday at McKethan Stadium.
