We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 83 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
UF men’s hoops travels to
South Carolina
The No. 19 Gators face the No. 24 Gamecocks tonight at 6:30, pg. 13
Senate approves amendment for SG ballot
Students will be able to vote on it during Spring elections, pg. 4
UF alumnus creates beard brush
He’s raising money to advertise the product, pg. 9FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge 
ordered on Friday that Tutoring-Zone permanently close and pay back at least $443,500 after de-frauding lenders, the Gainesville Sun reports.In 2011, former owner Matt 
Hintze and his wife Larina Hintze borrowed about $2.6 million from 
a group of investors, including 
friends and family members, to 
fund the company, which offered 
students study guides and tutor-ing lessons, according to Alligator 
archives.But when the couple tried to 
ﬁ  le for bankruptcy, the investors 
sued them in 2012.
Hintze said he and his wife 
used the personal loans to buy 
out a business partner, Ethan 
Fieldman, in 2011. Fieldman later started Study Edge, a rival tutor-
ing service that remains in opera-tion.
“I’m not a very good business 
person,” Hintze said. “But I’m a 
pretty good teacher.”
When one door closes, another 
opens. A page on TutoringZone’s website, which has since been re-moved, states several of the com-pany’s tutors — Hintze includ-ed — have migrated to a new, similar company called Skoolers Tutoring Center, located where the recently closed Know Where Coffee once stood. TutoringZone reviews are available at the 1226 W. University Ave. building.
Ashley Jacobs, a UF ﬁ  nance 
sophomore, said she has used Tu-toringZone on and off since her freshman year.
Jacobs said a friend of hers 
works at TutoringZone and has 
 TutoringZone closes, ordered to pay $443,500
THE CEREMONY 
COMMEMORATED 
THE COLLEGE’S 50TH 
ANNIVERSARY.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College ended its year-
long 50th anniversary celebration by burying a time capsule and smashing a bottle of champagne Tuesday.
About 100 people, including 
college administrators, students and faculty members, attended the event at Santa Fe’s recently built clocktower, at 3000 NW 83rd St. The ceremony started with a short speech from Jackson Sasser, the college’s president, and ended when a bottle of champagne chris-tened the clock tower, which was built in the Fall.
“The height of this clock tower 
is symbolic of high standards,” Sasser said. “We never, ever can reach high enough with the stan-dards of this college.”
The school’s ﬁ  rst-time capsule, 
which was buried 25 years after Santa Fe opened its doors in 1966, was unearthed this year, said John Carmean, Santa Fe’s director of communications and creative ser-vices.
It contained Santa Fe memo-
rabilia and VHS tapes that were damaged by water, he said. The college had the tapes restored by a forensics digital recovery service.
For this year’s burial, videos 
are stored on USB ﬂ  ash drives in weather-proof containers. The capsule also included letters from  SFC buries time capsule, 
christens clock tower
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A bus driver nearly struck a UF 
graduate student on campus Tues-
day afternoon.
At about 2 p.m., the student — 
31-year-old Hui Zhi — was walk-ing with her bicycle near the inter-section of Union Road and Newell Drive when the driver of a Regional Transit System bus crashed into her rear wheel while turning right onto Newell Drive.
The international communica-
tions master’s student thought the bus would have enough space to avoid her, and once she realized she needed to move away, it was too late. 
Bus 38 hit her bike’s back wheel, popping the tire and denting the rim, but its owner escaped unharmed.
Though she was uninjured, Zhi 
said she was shaken and upset that her bike was damaged.
“I need my bike to commute,” 
she said. “I ride it every day.” 
She was also frustrated that her 
run-in with the bus interrupted her journey to Library West to work on her master’s thesis.
After the accident, the bus driver 
comforted Zhi to make sure she was OK, Zhi said. She hoped the driver wouldn’t face repercussions.
“The bus driver was really nice,” 
Zhi said. “She tried to calm me down. I feel like things got taken care of; it should be ﬁ  ne.”
Chip Skinner, the marketing and 
communications supervisor for RTS, said no citations were issued for the bus driver. In Zhi’s statement to Uni-versity Police, she said the driver wasn’t at fault, Skinner said.
“(Zhi) was transported by RTS 
back to where she lived,” he said.
                    @romyellenbogen         rellenbogen@alligator.org 
 RTS bus driver almost crashes into student near TurlingtonAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
WRITING AWAY
Rama, a 22-year-old UF sustainability and the built environment senior, who refused to give her last name, writes the words “Backward Animal” on a brick for Inter-Residence Hall Association’s Writing on the Wall project. Rama said she has overheard several dehumanizing comments from others in public spaces recently, and it makes her question herself.
SEE TUTORING,  PAGE 5
SEE CAPSULE,  PAGE 5SANTA FE
“The bus driver was really 
nice. She tried to calm me 
down.”
Hui Zhi
UF graduate student
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorShe was walking to Library W est Judge says owner defrauded investorsWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Looking for other models: 
what the US can learn from 
Australian politics’Carol S. Weissert, director of the LeRoy Collins Institute at 
the College of Social Sciences 
and Public Policy at Florida State University, will be giving a lecture tomorrow from 3 p.m. to 3:50 p.m. at the UF Music Building. Invited by the UF Fulbright Programs Committee, Weissert will share her exper-tise on health care policy. This 
timely lecture will be most infor-
mative, as health care policy and access to affordable health care is under discussion nationwide and expected to experience ma-jor changes. The lecture is free and open to the public and will be followed by a meet-and-greet reception at the Music Building 
courtyard.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
is offering free lessons and danc-es twice a week every Monday and Friday. On Friday nights, the organization hosts two lev-els of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 
p.m. and a social dance from 9 
p.m. to midnight at the Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organization hosts two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to  9 p.m. and social dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more information, find the 
organization on Facebook.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Saturday 
Collectors from across the re-gion will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors dur-ing the 38th Collectors Day 
on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. This free event is the mu-seum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to in-teract with collectors and learn about the context and histori-cal significance of their collec-tions. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/
calendar/grid/collectors-day-
registration-deadline/ or call 352-273-2061.
352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunityThe UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship 
to work with the management 
team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative 
consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more information, or to request material, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28 Beginning Jan. 28, visitors of the Florida Museum of Natural History will be able to see the museum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Guests may view tree frogs, 
bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant 
toads and poison dart frogs. The museum will host a public open-ing celebration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Tuesday or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late 
or race-day registration is $30 or 
$20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents and seniors, $5 for children aged 3 to 17 and free to museum members and UF stu-
dents with a valid Gator 1 Card. 
‘Into the open: what animals can 
teach us about death’
On Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. at the Millhopper Branch Library, Jessica Pierce will speak about how judgments about animal life affect end-of-life care for our an-
imal companions. This event is 
fifth in an eight-part speaker se-ries called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide” organized by Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere at UF. For more information, visit humani-ties.ufl.edu/. 
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career ExpoThe annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Feb. 8 in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers representing the food, fiber, natural resources 
and life sciences sectors will 
be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent em-ployment as well as representa-tives of graduate programs and professional schools. All stu-dents are encouraged to attend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. CALS will host walk-in resume reviews in prep-aration for the event from 9 a.m. to noon on Monday in McCarty 
Hall D, Room 2025. For more in-
formation, visit cals.ufl.edu. 
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to University Galleries in Gainesville Cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from January to 
March. Cuban muralists, danc-
ers, musicians, authors and aca-demics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the Gary 
R. Libby Gallery. All events are 
free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the 
Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda 
chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-mation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (lim-
ited quantities available) will 
be featured. The event will also feature a condom-design chal-lenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team no later than Jan. 30, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-de-sign-challenge.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2017. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 83
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  56°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE SHOW WILL BE AT 
THE PHILLIPS CENTER 
TONIGHT AND THURSDAY. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Staff Writer
Since she was 3 years old, Al-
exandra Rodriguez has been hold-
ing her arms straight and kicking.
She’s a 17-year veteran of Irish 
dancing, an artform characterized by quick, jagged choreography. 
Tuesday night, backstage at the 
Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts, she met with her idols as 
the acclaimed show “Riverdance” 
came to Gainesville, the ﬁ  rst stop 
on its 20th anniversary tour.
“They’re the best of the best,” 
the UF biology senior said. “You’re always blown away by the raw 
talent and also the discipline and 
dedication.”
The dancers performed at the 
Phillips Center on Tuesday night, 
and will perform again tonight and Thursday night at 7:30 p.m., 
Nicholas van der Meer, the mar-keting director for UF Performing 
Arts, said. About 1,200 people, including Irish dance enthusiasts like Rodriguez, are expected to at-
tend each night’s showing.
Tickets range from $45 to $75 
for the public and are $20 for UF 
students. They are available on-line.
When she realized there was 
no way for her to continue danc-ing at UF, Rodriguez co-founded the student organization Ailigéa-
dar Irish Dance Company in 2014.
The club, composed of 10 mem-
bers, planned to meet the “River-
dance” performers after their ﬁ  rst show. Rodriguez spent over three 
months planning the meeting with 
the UF Alumni Association and the Phillips Center, she said.
Members of Allison Hogan’s 
dance school, Hogan School of 
Irish Dance, also planned to at-
tend the opening performance. 
Hogan, who graduated from UF 
with a master’s degree in 2008, opened the school in 2004 when 
she realized Gainesville had no-
where for residents to learn and practice Irish dance.
The school remains the only 
accredited Irish dance program in North Central Florida, Hogan said. It has 40 students spanning from 4-year-olds to 70-year-olds.
She said people can be intimi-
dated by the style’s complex steps, but they tend to learn quickly.
“Irish dance is just like any 
other skill that you learn,” Hogan said. “You just go at it slowly, 
practice, and people are surprised 
at how quickly they can get to a 
point where they’re actually doing 
these hard, fast, difﬁ  cult move-ments.”
The dance style has become 
an international phenomenon, en-couraging people who aren’t Irish to learn it, she said. 
Shows like “Riverdance” are 
examples of Irish dancing on ste-
roids, she said. 
Van der Meer said “River-
dance’s” Gainesville performances are signiﬁ  cant, because the show 
is usually held in large cities like New York City and Los Angeles.
“They’re going to get a heck of 
a show,” van der Meer said.  “I 
can’t think of a better word than 
saying it’s really going to be ... a 
spectacle to see.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  Gainesville’s Irish dancers prepare for ‘Riverdance’ visit
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Allison Hogan, the head instructor at Hogan School of Irish Dance, 
discusses choreography with a team of four dancers on Tuesday after-noon. Hogan shares her love of Irish culture with students of all ages in the Gainesville area and offers private lessons upon request.
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
 IT WOULD CHANGE HOW 
SOME  SUMMER SEATS ARE CHOSEN.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Students will vote on a consti-
tutional amendment during Spring 
Student Government elections that could change how Summer replace-ment senators are chosen. 
Tuesday, Student Senate unani-
mously passed a bill placing an amendment to the Student Body constitution on the Spring ballot. The amendment would prevent senators from nominating their own replacements during Summer. 
If the amendment passes, the Replacement and Agenda Commit-tee will recommend applicants for open positions before Senate ap-proves the nomination. Currently, senators pick their replacements, who are approved by the commit-tee and then the Senate. 
The bill’s author, Senator 
Meaghan Hanley (Impact, Journal-
ism-02) wrote in an email that the 
amendment would place qualiﬁ  ed students in Senate during a time when a signiﬁ  cant portion of Sen-ate’s budget is distributed. 
“We have seen situations where 
senators simply appoint a friend for the summer term and they have no understanding of Student Govern-
ment or a commitment to the of-
ﬁ  ce,” she said.
Senate President Smith Meyers said the amendment could allow majority party applicants to replace a minority or independent party senator’s seat, although they can object to applicants.
Senate also appointed Ian Green 
(Impact, Business Administration) as budget and appropriations com-mittee chairman, replacing Charlie Brown Jr., who resigned from Sen-ate Jan. 10, according to Alligator archives. 
Meyers said Green was the only 
senator to apply. 
“I feel like I’m more than pre-
pared,” Green said, adding that he’s been the committee’s vice chair since October.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
SG adds amendment to ballot
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
REHEARSAL BOYS
Luis Garcia-Godoy, 17, and Sebastian Reina, 17, seniors at P . K. Yonge 
Developmental Research School, rehearse for the school’s Spring musical, “The Drowsy Chaperone. ” The ﬁ  rst show will be Feb. 17.
IT ENCOURAGES 
STUDENTS TO PURSUE 
HEALTH CARE CAREERS. 
By Isaac Heller 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
This Summer, 80 freshmen 
and sophomore university stu-dents from across the U.S. will visit UF for the ﬁ  rst time to learn 
about careers in the health pro-
fessions. In October, the Robert Wood 
Johnson Foundation gave UF a 
$415,000 grant to help UF host 
the Summer Health Professions 
Education Program. The program is designed for students from mi-nority communities who are un-
derrepresented in health profes-
sions, said, Patricia Probert, UF’s 
College of Dentistry’s assistant dean for student and multicultur-al affairs. Thirteen other univer-
sities will also host the program, with 80 students attending at each location.
Students will spend six weeks 
at UF in on-campus residence 
halls and receive a stipend while shadowing health professionals, Probert said.
“This is an incredible opportu-
nity for students who are think-ing about the health profession to come in and learn and gain academic enrichment, learning 
skills as well as time in the clin-ic, time in the laboratory,” she said.  
While the program will focus 
on medicine, dentistry, pharmacy 
and public health professions, students will also learn about nursing, physician assistant stud-
ies and veterinary medicine, 
Probert said.
She said online applications 
opened Nov. 1 and will close for 
early admission Feb. 1 and regu-
lar admission March 1. Students will attend the program from May 
22 to June 30.
Undergraduates must be fresh-
men or sophomores with at least a 2.5 GPA when they apply, she 
said. 
Tori Baker, a UF pharmacy 
doctoral student, said the pro-
gram will beneﬁ  t those deciding 
their career path.
“This is a great opportunity to 
see if it is something that is for 
them,” she said.   UF to host undergraduate program with $415,000 grantHE SAID THEY OFTEN 
PLAY GAMES WHERE 
HE PRETENDS TO              
SHOOT THE BOY.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man is ac-
cused of shooting his 8-year-old 
neighbor in the leg with a BB 
gun Monday, Gainesville Police 
said.
At about 
1:58 p.m., 
Trevon Ray-
ford, 20, shot the boy when 
he saw him get off his bi-
cycle and try 
to run from 
him at Pine Meadows, 2626 E. University Ave., according to a 
police report. The boy was 8 to 
10 feet from Rayford when he pulled the trigger, firing once at the boy. The pellet lodged into the up-
per half of the boy’s left leg and caused a visible puncture wound, according to the report.
After his arrest, Rayford told 
police that he often plays a simi-lar game with the boy, according to the report. He said he usually chases after him and acts like he 
is going to shoot him. 
Rayford said the boy laughs 
when he is being chased, because 
they are “always playing around 
like that,” according to the report.
The boy identified Rayford to 
police, according to the report. 
Police arrested Rayford on 
a charge of aggravated child abuse. Authorities took him to 
Alachua County Jail where he was released on his own recog-nizance Tuesday afternoon.
As of press time, Rayford 
could not be reached for com-ment.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
Police: Man shoots 
child with BB gunHE SAID KING WAS MORE 
LIKE MALCOLM X THAN 
PEOPLE REALIZE.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
As part of this year’s Martin Lu-
ther King Jr. Day celebrations, a UF 
professor spoke about solutions to 
racism Tuesday.
About 100 people gathered in 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to hear UF African-American history professor Ibram Kendi talk about 
the legacies of King and Malcolm X. Kendi also spoke about his lat-est book, “Stamped from the Be-
ginning: The Definitive History of Racist Ideas in America,” which 
discusses U.S. racial tensions and won the nonfiction National Book 
award in 2016.
As a high-school senior 16 years 
ago, Kendi said he participated in an MLK oratory contest. Ever since, King and Malcolm X have 
shaped his work.
“It changed my life,” Kendi said. “It was re-
ally that contest 
that put me on this role.” 
He said he ad-
mires how their role in the civil rights move-
ment changed 
throughout their lives. King, in 
particular, who realized about four years after his “I Have a Dream” speech his optimism wouldn’t see 
results. 
He then replaced his views with 
what he called “solid realism,” 
Kendi told the audience, something 
most people don’t know about. 
Kendi said he hoped to shed 
light on a different side of King this 
year.
“I’m excited about MLK Day 
this year, because Americans in 
some ways are forced to learn 
more about the MLK they actually 
don’t know about.”
After Kendi spoke, one student 
asked how racism can be eliminat-ed. Kendi said the root of racism 
lies with people in power who set hateful policies out of self-interest. 
“We thought the basis of the 
problem was ignorance and hate,” Kendi told the student. “We’ve ac-
tually found it’s the inverse.”
Another asked how people can 
protest what he viewed as Presi-
dent-elect Donald Trump’s racist 
and sexist views. Kendi advised people should seek power by get-
ting involved in local government.
“He’ll whine and tweet at you, 
but there isn’t much the president-
elect can do,” Kendi said. “People should focus on their immediate 
surroundings.” 
Rashid Alrashid, a UF materials 
engineering senior, said that while 
he identifies as Syrian, he enjoyed 
hearing people from other ethnici-ties talk about their views on rac-
ism. 
“It was helpful and education-
al,” the 22-year-old said. “I learned 
that if you want to change rac-
ist ideas and people, you need to 
make sure you’re not racist first.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUF professor, author speaks of 
Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy 
told her to go to Skoolers Tutor-
ing Center instead.
“It’s all the same tutors. It’s the 
same exact packets,” the 19-year-old said. “I don’t know exactly what happened, but I think it’s the same company.”
Perhaps as a way to win over 
Hintze’s customers, Study Edge is offering current and former Tu-toringZone clients a free month of services, wrote Richard Melgare-jo, the company’s vice president, in an email.
Melgarejo challenged the repu-
tability of TutoringZone, adding 
that some students who have 
used the service in the past have 
been suspected of cheating.
“We do think that students will 
think twice in the future about spending their money at a less-
than-reputable tutoring company 
that could get them in trouble for 
cheating or just close its doors all of a sudden one day,” he said.
Hintze said he realizes the er-
rors made with TutoringZone and 
wants to pay back what he and his wife owe.
“I think that those are per-
sonal obligations, and I am going 
to work my hardest to repay,” he 
said. “I am definitely committed 
to doing what I can to provide for 
my family and repay those loans.”
Hintze said he still hopes 
to pursue his job as a tutor in 
Gainesville.
“I’ve tried to keep my head 
down when it comes to litigation 
and focus on teaching,” he said.   
                                @merylkornfield 
        mkornfield@alligator.orgTUTORING,  from pg. 1Many tutors moved to a new businesscurrent students and an iPhone.
“People from all over campus 
suggested what should go in the capsule, so we took those sugges-tions,” Carmean said. “We’ve in-cluded digital things like videos of 
important moments in the history 
of the last 25 years of the college.”
This year’s capsule, a stainless 
steel box to be opened in 2041, 
was buried earlier this week in a 
secret location, Carmean said.
The capsule was made by San-
ta Fe’s welding program and en-
graved by students in the building construction technology program. 
Kadesiah Bellot, a Santa Fe 
musical theater student, said al-though she didn’t place any per-
sonal belongings in the capsule, 
she was happy to be a part of her 
school’s story.
“I wanted to come out today 
because I wanted to be a part of 
history, and kind of actually see what a time capsule looked like,” the 22-year-old said.
Bellot’s friend, Joshua White, 
said the new clock tower has be-come a defining piece of architec-ture at the college.
“It’s pretty central to the cam-
pus,” the 21-year-old Santa Fe dance sophomore said. “When you’re driving up, it’s kind of the first thing you see.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgCAPSULE,  from pg.1An iPhone was buried
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A NEW STANDARD
Construction workers talk underneath The Standard structure. Matthew Goldtrap, 46, the construction foreman on the project, stated that construction is on schedule with a projected turnover date in August. The first building will be for apartments, the second building will be a AC Hotels by Marriott, and the third building, which is near completion, will be a parking garage. 
Molly Vossler / Alligator Staff
A crowd gathers outside the Santa Fe College clock tower on Tuesday afternoon for a time-capsule dedication. About 100 people gathered to celebrate the college’s 50th anniversary.
Rayford
CRIME
Kendi
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORThe life of a musician is depressing, yet interesting
When I was a kid, listening to music 
was an escape from the mundane. There was nothing I loved more 
than sitting in the back seat for a 
long drive with my headphones on. 
I found myself moved by catchy melodies and guitars. I loved rock ‘n’ roll so much, I wanted 
to play the guitar myself. My dad bought me 
a small, no-name nylon-string acoustic at the guitar shop where I signed up to take weekly lessons. The ﬁ  rst time I picked up that cheap instrument, I was disappointed to learn that playing the 
guitar wasn’t something I could do naturally. I didn’t un-
derstand how the thing worked. Once I started taking lessons, I found that practicing was boring and painful. 
I was a slow learner. I actually hated playing the gui-
tar for the ﬁ  rst year. This all changed when I got a shiny brown Stratocaster and a little 10-watt ampliﬁ  er for my birthday. The muddy “overdrive” button on the ampliﬁ  er changed my thoughts about playing the guitar instantly. With the press of a button, it seemed I could play any 
string of notes and feel like a bona ﬁ  de rock star.
Years went by, and I went through several guitar 
teachers. The one I remember the most is Dave, a per-
petually shaking, 40-something-year-old man. His wiry black hair looked thinner every lesson, and he always smelled like cigarette smoke. He was better at guitar than 
any teacher I had before. So one day I asked him:
“Hey Dave, why do you work here? I mean, you’re so good at playing guitar, why aren’t you, like, a 
famous rock star?”
“Well kid, one day you’ll learn that the 
whole rock star thing is never going to hap-pen for any of us. Playing the guitar may be fun now, but when you’re my age, you’ll re-alize trying to make a life out of music is a 
waste of time.”
Soon after this, I stopped taking guitar les-
sons. I still played often though, and I even 
started writing and singing my own melodra-
matic songs. In middle school, obsessed with the music 
of Hot Topic and Warped Tour, I tried to start several 
bands with like-minded friends. We would practice in my garage once a week when my parents went out to dinner.
The ﬁ  rst time I ever played a show was with a band 
I started my freshman year of high school. I won’t men-tion our name for fear that somebody may ﬁ  nd the videos posted of us on YouTube that I don’t know how to take down. It was at a warehouse venue called The Talent Farm behind my old high school.
Looking back on my performance, it was an embar-
rassing display. The only thing worth mentioning was a memorable sexual experience before my band played. A girl from my high school came to see me play. We danced 
together until we found ourselves in a dimly lit corner. 
We started making out, and she pinned me against the wall. A few minutes into receiving oral sex, I was dis-tracted by a dark ﬁ  gure on the dimly lit asphalt in the middle of the parking lot. After careful examination, I 
saw it was a dead cat. I brought this to her attention, and 
she stopped giving me head. 
Last year I saw Dave’s obituary in the newspaper. He 
was hit by a car. That surprised me. I ﬁ  gured his death 
would have been drug-related.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His column ap-
pears every Wednesday. Maintaining the 
Gainesville spirit as the 
city expands
Walking through this city, one notices quite a few plac-
es of business that, more than any others, scream “Gainesville.” Satchel’s Pizza, Maude’s Cafe and the Hippodrome State Theatre are among the most well-known of these hyper-local joints. Though much of 
the city is structured around UF, if you want to get a look at the real Gainesville, you need to step beyond the comforts of campus and frequent the wide array of small, local businesses Gainesville has to offer. Sure, we’re no big city like Atlanta or San Francisco, but there is a unique ﬂ  avor to Gainesville — a combination of small-town America and big-name campus — and the businesses and events that make it a one-of-a-kind city.
But recently, dear readers, that’s all been changing.For the most part, the cookie-cutter-suburban-shopping-plaza 
feel has been localized to Archer Road. While there are shopping plazas in other parts of the town, the Butler Plaza area really is a prototypical image of suburbia: one shopping plaza bleeding seamlessly into the next one, two Publix stores, a Wal-Mart and a Target competing for shoppers, an Olive Garden, Outback Steak-house and Boneﬁ  sh Grill for all your weeknight dining pleasures. You get the idea.
Now, there’s nothing wrong with suburban shopping plazas, 
of course. We won’t deny the appeal of Target and Publix within walking distance of each other and the easy bus routes leading from the area back to campus. The chain restaurants are cozy and familiar. Having multiple options for groceries and supply shopping is always a comforting feeling; This is a vital part of any growing city.
But lately, there’s been a creep of sub-urbanization in the ar-
eas of Gainesville that host more unique assets of the city, namely on West University Avenue, the corridor that connects Midtown, downtown and the stretch of street in between the two hubs.
With the construction of two properties near the intersection 
of West University Avenue and Southwest 13th Street, students will soon be within walking distance from a Publix, a TargetEx-press and a host of chain restaurants. No longer will on-campus freshmen without meal plans or car access have to make the long trip to Butler Plaza by bus. Having everything within walking distance will deﬁ  nitely make things easier for students and create a new, sleek and modern aesthetic.
But development is a double-edged sword, bringing with it a 
loss of that special little something that makes Gainesville, well, Gainesville. Sure it’ll be cool to have those big brands near cam-pus, but it’s jarring to see a big, colorless building next to smaller establishments that have been there for decades, that have culti-vated loyal and dedicated customers, that serve food and create an atmosphere you can’t ﬁ  nd anywhere else in the world. It’s jarring to see those places slowly pushed out in favor of corpora-tions.
Within the next ﬁ  ve years, the landscapes of our city will 
change. Within the next 10 years, Gainesville will evolve as sub-urbia starts to ﬁ  lter in and take control of the more unique cor-ners of the city. We might come back with our children and not recognize the sidewalks we once walked.
Development is always a Catch-22. It is good to look forward, 
to envision a future for the city — and in this case, for students. But when that pushes out spaces residents have made their own, spaces that set Gainesville apart from other towns, is it really worth it?
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
“(I)t was a dead cat. I brought 
this to her attention, and she 
stopped giving me head.”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Like ﬁ  sh that don’t know they’re in wa-
ter, we don’t often think about how the 
structure of our world shapes our behav-
ior. This week I’d like to take a look at 
how capitalism affects the way we mea-
sure value. To do that, we’ll ﬁ  rst travel to the 
art world.
Consider for a moment your high-school 
English class. Courses in literature or art ap-
preciation are the result of a strange cognitive 
dissonance within our culture. On one hand, 
we seem to have an understanding that art can 
be an invaluable part of the human experience. 
On the other hand, a culture which measures 
value by the exchange of goods tends to be 
uncomfortable with subjects that aren't eas-
ily quantiﬁ  able. English classes are never sold 
as presenting you with good books and plays 
because they are enjoyable, but are instead re-
assuring you of the services they provide by 
teaching critical thinking and art interpretation.
Interpretation has long served as capital-ism’s way of justifying art. Art in a 
capitalist society is, quite simply, that 
which cannot be sold as anything 
else. A particularly well-designed car 
is, for all its beauty, nevertheless sold 
as a car. Despite lacking in pragmat-
ic value, however, art must still be 
sold in order for artists make more 
art, because, as stated earlier, we feel 
that art is somehow important, even 
if we can’t explain why. The job of 
interpretation is to render art into 
merchandise by providing us with a more tan-
gible value. This is why every novel is said to 
“explore issues,” paintings are sold as “telling 
a narrative,” and every sculpture “reinterprets” 
the latest trends. We must be able to say our 
art is performing a service to us or the com-
munity at large, because we are more comfort-
able paying for services than for what art really 
provides us: a visceral emotional reaction or a 
unique experience.The same forces that plague 
the art world are at work in our 
personal lives. We have become 
notorious multitaskers, and in fact 
countless people report feelings of 
anxiety when they are not being 
“productive.” This is just the lat-
est manifestation of a centuries-old 
obsession with quantifying the val-
ue of time. But where did we get 
this idea of time as something to be 
“spent” or “wasted?” It's an inher-
ently capitalistic notion, and it assumes time 
itself has a constant and measurable value. We 
strive to be productive — that is, to maximize 
product. This is the kind of thinking that drives 
factory managers, but is our life’s highest pur-
pose really to generate some product? As with 
art, we can’t measure the value of time, so we 
impose upon it a series of services that we can 
say it provides us. Every moment we must be 
working toward our goals or self-improvement, otherwise we can’t point to what that time has 
done for us. We assume it was wasted.
Our lives aren’t a business, but just as a 
man with a hammer sees only nails, our cul-
ture has given us one tool, and it ﬁ  lters the 
way we see our world. This isn’t to say noth-
ing good comes of managing one’s time, or no 
piece of art is genuinely trying to communicate 
a message. The tragic part of high-school Eng-
lish classes has never been learning to read 
critically; It is that, when forced to assess the 
value of literature based on messages we im-
pose upon it, so many young people learn to 
hate reading. When we are forced to treat ev-
erything as a product, to assess time or beauty 
based on what service we can force it to per-
form, we lose sight of what we can truly get 
out of these things, the joys of life that are not 
measurable, that can’t be quantiﬁ  ed or manu-
factured or bought.
David Billig is a UF linguistic master’s stu-
dent. His column appears on Wednesdays. Art and time: how we measure intangible value in a quantifiable worldColumn
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HE TOLD POLICE HE 
REGRETS NOT HAVING A 
REAL GUN.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After holding up a convenience 
store with a BB gun, and later 
winding up behind bars, a sus-pected thief told an arresting ofﬁ  -cer he wished he owned a real gun, 
Gainesville Police said.
At about 6:30 p.m. on Monday, 
Phillip Dequaze Henry, 29, walked 
into the Corner Store, located in the 100 block of SW Fifth Terrace, and held a yellow bandana over his face before demanding money from the store’s cash register and the clerk’s wallet, according to a 
police report.
The clerk, Dhananjaya “Jaya” 
Knighten, said he gave Henry $300 
out of the register because it ap-peared he had a real gun.
Police found Henry about an hour later walking nearby, GPD Lt. Jaret Weiland said.
In his backpack police found a 
BB gun and yellow bandana that matched the security camera foot-age from the store, according to the 
report.
Henry also 
had cash on him 
equal to or ex-ceeding what 
was taken from the store, accord-ing to the report. After his arrest, 
Henry told police 
he committed 
the robbery because he is homeless and felt “oppressed by the system.”
Police arrested Henry on charg-
es of armed robbery and attempted armed robbery. Authorities took him to Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu 
of a $100,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  GPD: Masked man 
robs store with BB gunIT’S MADE WITH 
BEESWAX AND OTHER 
NATURAL BLENDS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff writer
UF alumnus Jordan Alva, with 
his long, scraggly beard, searched 
for a decade to ﬁ  nd something wor-
thy of his facial hair.
But he gave up and made his 
own.
Combining a brush and natural 
products, the 33-year-old created 
his latest invention: a beeswax-based beard brush.
For the lifelong inventor, the cre-
ation came naturally.
“I guess it’s sort of second na-
ture,” Alva said. “It’s sort of the way I process my surroundings.”
After graduating from UF with a 
bachelor’s degree in Spanish and a 
master’s degree in science and en-
trepreneurship, Alva began ﬁ  nding 
his way around the world of entre-
preneurship. One of his previous 
inventions involved making a fold-able skateboard, he said.
Alva said he’s raising money to 
advertise his beard-balm brushes 
on Indiegogo, a website for entre-
preneurs where people can donate 
money to fund products and possi-bly receive samples of the products. He’s also speaking to retail compa-nies to sell his invention.
The yellow brushes comb 
through hair and have a handle made of beeswax blends that in-clude plant-based butters, like shea and coconut, and oils like castor 
and argan, Alva said. Each balm serves a different purpose.
“Tree Beard” consists of pepper-
mint and rosemary, which stimu-
lates hair growth. “Paul Bunyan,” made with lavender and pine, is 
designed to soothe irritated skin. 
And his third blend, “Ann,” has no concentrated oils so people with al-lergies and sensitive skin can use it.
Adam Carbonell, of Ormond 
Beach, Florida, said he received the “Tree Beard” brush as a gift last Christmas. He’s used it every day since.
“The list of ingredients isn’t three pages long,” the 30-year-old bartender said. “That’s a huge plus. 
You know what you’re putting on 
your face.”
It can be applied to wet, dry or 
damp hair, Alva said. Women have used it to soften their hair, and bald people can use it to hydrate their scalps.
Ted Astleford, director of UF’s 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Center’s Experiential Learning Pro-grams, said he remembers when Alva volunteered for a yearlong UF 
program in which students created and developed a business.
“Just the fact that he volunteered 
tells me he was an exceptional stu-
dent,” Astleford said.
He said Alva recently gifted him 
one of his brushes. Although he doesn’t have a beard himself, Astle-ford thinks the brush is innovative.
“It’s an old product but done 
in a better way,” he said. “It’s eye-
catching. I wish I had a beard so I 
could use it.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  UF alumnus invents beard brush
Henry
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
CONDO w/4 rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call 352-215-2204       1-20-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down-stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-4-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesNO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
2003 NISSAN MAXIMA
V6, 164k miles. sunroof, new stereo, new tires. Well maintained. $3200. 352-359-3499    1-23-5-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12 AutosWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GET PAID TO TYPE!
Copytalk Business Services is hiringemployees to transcribe audio files.- 60+ wpm required- Competitive pay rewarding production- Located close to UF campus- Create your own scheduleApply at www.ctscribes.com       1-18-5-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
 Experienced preferred.
 Multi-tasking & accuracy a must!
 Email resume to
Trc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Early sitcom 
co-star Arnaz
5 It’s over a foot
9 Zagreb native
14 Wolfs down
15 Madre’s boy
16 Toy in many
“Peanuts” panels
17 Not a fearful
place foracrophobia
sufferers
20 Casino lineup
21 Starting on22 Palette choices23 Morose
25 Droop in the
garden
27 Tight hold29 401(k)
alternative, briefly
32 Went ballistic
36 Not a fearful fund
for agoraphobia
sufferers
39 Folk rocker
DiFranco
40 Belittle
41 Showy Japanese
school
42 To a degree,
informally
44 Haul to the
garage
45 Not a fearful
Camus work forxenophobiasufferers
48 Name on the
1967 album “IWas Made toLove Her”
50 Pilot’s stat51 Ward of “Sisters”52 City with ferry
service to
Copenhagen
54 Damon of
“Interstellar”
56 Fix, as a pet
59 Deft tennis shots62 Ragu rival65 Not a fearful
roadster forarachnophobiasufferers
68 Prolonged
assault
69 Way through the
trees
70 Curly cabbage71 Wielded an ax72 “Button it!”73 Actor Byrnes and
announcer HallDOWN
1 Cotillion
attendees
2 Banjoist Scruggs
3 Admired
reverentially, with
“of”
4 Elemental forms
used in carbondating
5 NBC weekend
skit show
6 “’Sup”7 Travel section
listing
8 “Not happenin’”9 Key econ.
indicator
10 Subjects of the
first 10Amendments
11 Iolani Palace
island
12 Kitty starter13 Throw18 Sch. near
Topeka
19 TurboTax option24 Outer edge
26 Mucho
27 Future MBAs’
exams
28 High-tech worker30 Golf bunker tool31 Got up33 Online pop-up
tailored to
individual tastes
34 Recon goal
35 Pageant
headpiece
37 Elusive
Himalayans
38 “Batman” actress
Eartha
43 Picket line placard
46 Word of greeting
47 Aries symbol49 Journey
53 Zing
55 Droid download56 Pageant band57 Ballet class bend
58 Small number
60 Main squeeze61 Pub crawlers63 Fix, as a horse64 Tram loads66 Chinese lantern
color
67 “Button it!”
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/18/1701/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. MOVIES: What animated movie 
featured “The Siamese Cat Song”?
2. TELEVISION: In the 1960s sit-
com “Family Affair,” what was the 
name of Buffy’s doll?
3. GEOGRAPHY: Ardennes Forest 
in Belgium was the site of what major 
World War II battle?
4. HISTORY: What leading figure in 
America’s Revolutionary War took the 
pseudonym “Poor Richard” in his ear -
lier writing?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the more common name for the flower whose scientific name is papaver somniferum?
6. BUSINESS: How long did the 
New Coke formula last after it was introduced in 1985?
7. LITERATURE: What mystery 
writer created the character of Kay Scarpetta, medical examiner?
8. ASTRONOMY: Where is the 
Lowell Observatory located?
9. FOOD & DRINK: What grated 
cheese is named for the capital of Ita-ly?
10. LANGUAGE: What is a more 
common name for an apiarist?
Answers
1. “Lady and the Tramp”2. Mrs. Beasley3. Battle of the Bulge4. Benjamin Franklin
5. The opium poppy
6. Less than three months7. Patricia Cornwell8. Flagstaff, Ariz.9. Romano10. Beekeeper
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 16, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offering
dorm, apt & house cleaning services.
Prices starting at $50.
Gainesville & surrounding areas.
Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     
1-19-17-10-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
How To Fund Your Projects With Bitcoin & 
Crowdfunding. For More Details Go To ===> 
www.bitcoinexplosion.info (267) 549-9815     
1-23-17-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance accepted
Marcywilson.com ½ price for
veterans or cancer patients
Call/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Alicia Boren will lead the UF gymnastics team into its matchup against UNC on Friday, but there are more sports than gymnastics going on this week. For a full list, see pg. 16Florida baseball ranked in latest preseason poll
UF's baseball team is ranked No. 2 in the D1Baseball preseason poll, re-
leased Tuesday. The Gators trail only TCU and will host No. 3 Florida State, 
No. 4 South Carolina and No. 5 LSU this season. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Florida coach Mike White despises 
one-handed rebounding.
So much so that it’s become a point 
of emphasis during practice. 
When a player attempts a one-hand-
ed rebound during a drill, there is a price to pay.
Coaches sometimes bark at the play-
ers, ordering them to start the entire 
drill over again.
Or worse. Sometimes players are sentenced 
to grueling extra conditioning from strength and conditioning coach Pres-ton Greene.“Our one-handed rebounding the 
other day was incredible,” said White, whose team was outrebounded 41-32 by Georgia on Saturday. “For whatever reason, our focus in that regard wasn’t very good. But we got back to it yester-day (in practice). We didn’t have any one-handed attempts yesterday.”
With every sweat-stained jersey, 
aching body and sore leg, Florida’s fo-cus has been on one thing this season — improving. 
And in year two under White, the 
Gators (14-3, 5-0 SEC) are slowly, but surely, scratching the surface of their potential. At No. 19, Florida has finally made its return to the top 20 — some-thing UF fans were routinely accus-tomed to under the guidance of Billy Donovan. The Gators, who have the eighth-toughest schedule in the coun-try, according to KenPom, are cur-rently in the midst of a seven-game win streak that includes victories over gritty teams like Arkansas, Georgia and Alabama. 
No Florida team prior had a win 
streak longer than four games since the 2013-2014 squad that went 36-3 with no conference losses. 
Every shot, every game and, most 
importantly, every win has drawn coach White and his team an inch clos-er to returning Florida basketball to the glory it sustained under Donovan.
The team is undoubtedly improved 
— as reflected by its record — and its success will likely culminate in UF’s first NCAA tournament bid in three years. Florida averages 79 points per game, surrenders only 67.1 points per game and ranks second in the SEC in steals (8.4 per game).
But are the Gators, who face a tall 
task in dismantling No. 24 South Car-olina (14-3, 4-0 SEC) in Columbia to-night at 6:30, playing their best basket-ball of the season?
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White crouches during Florida's overtime win over Georgia on Sat-urday. "No, " White said when asked if the Gators are playing their best, "we're not. "
 UF playing well, but still has room to improve
By Cassie Amundson 
Sports Writer
Kourtney Keegan glanced over 
from the garnet tennis courts.
She was up 6-5 in the third set 
and ahead 40-30 with the serve. Playing a Florida State team that the Gators had a commanding 54-1 overall record against, today’s match was too close. And in order for Florida to clinch what should’ve been a simple win, Keegan needed to secure her match.
She was the last one on.
Her stare met head coach Ro-
land Thornqvist.
“I tell her ‘Pick your favorite 
serve, and go for it,’” Thornqvist 
said. “Boom.”Keegan banged in an ace. And 
with that, the match was won. 
As a sophomore, Keegan was 
already able to demonstrate her skill on the court.
Flash forward 18 months.
On an early September morn-
ing, the sun had peeked out over 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Keegan sat in a room featuring a shiny, wooden conference table 
occupied by members of UF's ath-letic director search committee. As the only athlete present, she was asked about the potential new ath-
letic director, Scott Stricklin. And 
after voting to approve his hiring, 
she ended the morning by shaking 
his hand. 
Being president of the Student-Athlete Advisory Committee 
(SAAC), she was the ﬁ  rst athlete to know about his hiring.
As a multi-sport athlete, the 
head representative of student-
athletes on campus and the 2016 
NCAA doubles champion with 
teammate Brooke Austin, Keegan 
seems to have done it all. In ﬁ  nal season, Keegan attacking ambitions on and oﬀ   tennis court The Alligator sports department welcomed ﬁ  ve 
new staffers this week. As sports editor, it was 
my job to hire them. And while I’m conﬁ  dent the 
folks we brought in will do well here, I noticed an unsettling trend in many of the applications.
The last question on the initial form asked what sports 
media the applicant consumed as well as who the appli-
cant’s favorite sports journalists were. 
At least 50 percent of the applications listed ESPN’s 
Stephen A. Smith. 
Now, if I had been asked that question as a freshman, 
I also probably would’ve listed Smith, but there’s a prob-lem: Stephen A. Smith is not a sports journalist. 
He does very little, if any, reporting, preferring to prac-
tice talking louder than his competition on ESPN’s “First Take,” a daily show during which Smith and co-arguer 
Max Kellerman debate sports issues. 
Nevertheless, when I was young and naive, I loved 
watching Smith. I deﬁ  nitely would’ve also (wrongly) 
called him a journalist. And I wanted to be just like him. 
But somewhere between the time I got hired at the Al-
ligator and now, I realized that I didn’t like what he did. I started reading — something I never did before college — legitimate sports journalism, discovered that writing 
was what I really liked and decided to focus my career 
on it instead of aspiring to be a talking head. There was 
just one problem. 
I tried — and, for a long time, failed — to ﬁ  gure out 
why sports journalism was important. 
Journalism I could understand. There are abuses of 
power, wars and diseases every day all over the world, 
and people need to know about those things. If I were 
spending my time reporting on that kind of impactful 
news, I think I could ﬁ  nd fulﬁ  lment knowing that in some small way, I was doing some service greater than myself. 
With sports, however, I didn’t feel fulﬁ  lled at all. In 
some ways, I still don’t. 
For example, while I love getting to go cover sporting  Why sports 
journalism mattersSWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueri
FEATURE
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 15SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14MEN'S HOOPS14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
events live, I don’t think there’s anything mean-
ingful about writing a game story. It’s fun, sure, 
but it’s not fulﬁ  lling. 
The argument I’ve always heard for the im-
portance of sports journalism, however, is that it serves as a “catharsis,” or a temporary escape 
from the struggles of reality. People read game 
stories and other sports stories to get away from 
whatever hurdles they face in their lives, if only momentarily. 
But if this is the case, then Smith, Skip Bay-
less and others like them should be revered far more than any sports journalists. There are few 
who can talk points to their graves for three 
straight hours, day after day, like they can. And 
undeniably, these talking points are excellent 
distractions.
So why is actual sports journalism different 
from Smith’s talking head-dom? Think about it like this: Watching “First Take” is sort of like reading an instruction manual. It’s distracting, 
but when you’re done reading, you’ve really 
learned nothing except a very speciﬁ  c skill. 
Good sports journalism, meanwhile, is more 
like a compelling novel. The story is distracting, sure, but the point it makes and the impact that 
results will last. 
Ethan Bauer is the sports editor. His column 
appears on Wednesdays. Contact him at 
ebauer@alligator.org, and follow him on Twit-
ter @ebaueri.  COLUMN,  from pg. 13
“No, we’re not,” White said. “We’re 
not the toughest team in this league. We’ve gotten tougher, but that’s an area 
where we definitely could make some im-provement in.”
Despite its success, Florida has also 
had its struggles.
The Gators rank 12th in the conference 
in rebounds (35.2), and with ailing cen-
ter John Egbunu slowly working his way 
back toward a starting job and sophomore 
forward Kevarrius Hayes struggling with 
foul trouble, the frontcourt continues to 
be problematic.
As UF lurks deeper into its schedule, 
its challenges will only get more difficult 
— just in time for the postseason.
But for now, Florida is taking it one 
day at a time.
“We don’t really pay attention to the 
rankings. We just kind of focus on the next game at hand,” graduate transfer 
Canyon Barry said. “And right now, it’s 
South Carolina.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 13UF ranks 12th in the SEC in rebounds per game
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Canyon Barry drives into the paint during Florida's win over Arkansas-Little Rock on Dec. 21. "We just kind of focus on the next game at hand, " Barry said. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
But that’s nothing new. She’s been well 
rounded her whole life, and her story at 
Florida isn't over yet. 
From a brother who plays football to a 
dad who taught tennis in college, Keegan 
grew up in a household full of athletes. She began playing in tennis tournaments at the 
age of 9 or 10.
“Tennis was always kind of my first 
love,” she said.
When she was about 11, Keegan began 
to train at Windward Tennis Academy in Alpharetta, Georgia, under the coaching of 
Will Wright. Wright traveled with Keegan 
throughout much of her junior play and even made the trip to the U.S. Open this past summer to watch her compete.
“When I was successful, he would con -
gratulate me and tell me that I did a good 
job like any coach,” Keegan said. “But he 
told me I can always do better … I think 
that’s what kind of helped me to achieve a 
national championship.”
Keegan also played softball and basket -
ball throughout high school, attributing 
basketball as a key developer in her leader -
ship skills on the tennis court.
Wright, who is now the lead high-per -
formance coach at Lifetime Tennis Acad -
emy, specifically remembers a period in which Keegan took time off from tennis for 
some months to play another sport, coming 
back only a week before a national tourna -
ment.
“There’s a lot of kids spending seven to 
eight hours a day playing,” Wright said. 
“And she takes off like three months, prac -
tices for a week and then wins the tourna -
ment.” 
As a senior in high school, Keegan de -
bated between the University of Georgia, UNC Chapel Hill and UF to pursue her ten -
nis career. Thornqvist and the University of Florida were the last to contact her in the 
recruiting process.
“When you first see her, she’s an im -
pressive athlete,” Thornqvist said. “Even 
before we got to know her, she seemed like 
the total package, and it was easy to see 
she had the potential to be really good.”On her second visit to Gainesville she 
decided that she'd found a new home.
“Everyone talks about how you get the 
feeling when you know where you want to go, and that’s kind of what I got after 
my second visit,” Keegan said. “I realized 
that they were going to make me not only 
the best person, but the best tennis player, 
and that’s kind of what I wanted out of a 
college.”
Keegan was impressive at the college 
level from the start. After going 7-1 in reg -
ular-season SEC matches and being ranked 
71st nationally by the end of her freshman 
season, she rolled into her sophomore sea -
son, raising her overall ranking to 51st. She ended that season ranked first in the 
Southeast Region in doubles play and was 
awarded both UF's Evelyn Puckett Award 
for most improved player and the ITA/Ar -
thur Ashe, Jr. Sportsmanship and Leader -
ship Award for the Southeast Region.
“We are just so grateful she’s a Gator be -
cause she makes everyone better,” Thorn -
qvist said.
•   •   •
Her leadership has shown off the tennis 
court as well. This year, Keegan is president of SAAC, the voice of athletes on campus. She got involved as a sophomore, becoming a SAAC representative her first year before jumping to secretary as a junior.
“As a leader on my team, I might be able 
to lead the whole athletic association, all the athletes,” Keegan said. “It’s kind of a big title, but I’m embracing it now.”
Her involvement stems from her desires 
to work in an athletic association in the fu -
ture. She said that being an athletic direc -
tor is something she might want to pursue.
“I thought that being SAAC president 
isn’t a bad start,” she said with a smile.
Keegan’s natural tendency for leader -
ship is applauded by her coaches.
“She’s not necessarily always the loud -
est one in the locker room, but she is a great example in how she behaves, how she conducts herself, how she competes and how she represents Florida,” Thornqvist said. “She’s been one of the best leaders, in my opinion, that we’ve ever had.”
But her involvement in SAAC has had no 
detriment on her tennis. Even with her role of secretary as a junior, that year produced perhaps her best tennis at Florida to date.
•   •   •
In her junior year, Keegan climbed in 
the rankings to as high as second overall 
in doubles.And to end the season, she was the 
2016 NCAA doubles champion with Brooke 
Austin, the first individual title won by Florida players since 2001. Keegan said Thornqvist and assistant coach Dave Balogh instilled a mentality in their players to never give up. It’s a mentality that 
pushed her and Austin to be champions.
“It’s not only in matches but even in 
practice, running, lifting,” Keegan said. 
“You can be tired, sweating and wanting to 
give up, but at the same time, you just gotta 
finish the drill.”
What’s in store for her future? For one, 
she won’t be in the classroom next semes -
ter, as she finished classes in December.
Instead, Keegan will be interning at 
Carr Sports Consulting. She also might ap -
ply to grad school for sports management.
But first, she has her final Spring season 
as a Gator.
And while she has a goal of winning an 
NCAA team championship, as a senior, it’ll 
also be a time for her to reflect on her ten -
nis career.  
“She’s got such a good perspective on 
competing but still keeping the other, more 
important aspects in there,” Wright said, 
“In being a good person and competing the 
right way and being nice to other people.”
For Keegan, her fondest memories aren’t 
just on the courts, though. Instead, it's her teammates who will bring back the best 
moments during her time at Florida.
“It’s not necessarily certain matches I 
remember,” she said, “but all the bus rides, 
all the team bonding, making new relation -
ships.”
With the success she’s already had, she 
now has one final semester to make more 
memories and capture a team champion -
ship. 
“Coming here,” she said, “I don’t regret 
a thing.” 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 13Keegan: 'Coming (to Florida), I don't regret a thing'
Alligator File Photo 
Kourtney Keegan returns a ball during Florida's 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27, 2016. 
Alligator File Photo 
Kourtney Keegan backhands a ball during Florida's 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27, 2016. 
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2017
THIS WEEK IN 
UF SPORTS 
(Wednesday to Sunday)
Wednesday
• Men’s basketball @ South 
Carolina, 6:30 p.m., on SEC 
Network
Thursday: none
Friday
• Gymnastics @ North Carolina, 7 
p.m.
• Track and Field @ Hokie 
Invitational (Virginia T ech), all day
Saturday
• Men’s basketball vs. Vanderbilt, 
noon, on CBS
• Men’s tennis vs. Georgia Southern, 
10 a.m.
• Men’s tennis vs. Kennesaw State, 
3 p.m.
• Women’s swimming and diving 
@ Auburn, 10 a.m., on SEC 
Network+
• Men’s swimming and diving 
@ Auburn, 10 a.m., on SEC 
Network+
• Track and Field @ Hokie 
Invitational (Virginia T ech), all day
Sunday
• Women’s basketball @ Georgia,    
1 p.m., on SEC Network
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Alicia Boren performs her bars routine in Florida’s home opener against Kentucky on Friday. The Gators will 
travel to Chapel Hill to compete against North Carolina on Friday at 7 p.m.