We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 11 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorDo the Gators need Antonio  
Callaway?
Our columnist argues that Florida is better off without its star receiver. Read the column , pg 13.‘Midget wrestling’ hits Gainesville
The dwarf wrestlers performed Thursday night, pg 8.
Comedy raises money for hurricane relief
The show was held for Irma, Harvey victims, pg 4. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 11 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
 By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
 
Feleipe Franks wasn’t shaken.
Just minutes after his intercep-
tion threatened to sink Florida on its ﬁ  rst Saturday in The Swamp, the Gators’ redshirt freshman quarterback was back on the ﬁ  eld 
to manufacture a miracle.
Then came the catch. Franks’ 
game-winning 63-yard pass to receiver Tyrie Cleveland sent a 
shock wave through the stadium as Florida fans were reminded 
why they watch football in the 
ﬁ  rst place.
It was more than a touchdown 
and more than a win — it was a message that the Gators can 
respond. Respond to a season-
opening loss. Respond to missing nine players with suspensions. Respond to an opponent that 
wants them to keep them quiet.
The No. 20 Gators proved 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator staff 
Sophomore WR Tyrie Cleveland caught the game-winning touchdown Saturday. “I wanted that ball and I got it, ” Cleveland said after the game.
LAST-MINUTE MAGIC: Florida ﬁ  nds a way
Walk-of win 
vs. Volunteers
puts the Gators 
back on track
UT 20 UF 26
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
THE CAST IS MADE UP OF 
100 PEOPLE.
By Rhiana Suarez
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Sara Greenberg, a manager 
at Panera Bread, isn’t at her day job, 
she swings swords and wields dag-gers. 
“I’ve been doing Renaissance fairs 
since I was a baby,” the 23-year-old Gainesville resident said.
Greenberg auditioned Sunday from 
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. to be the dark jester assassin at the 32nd Hoggetowne Me-dieval Faire, which will be held the last weekend of January and the ﬁ  rst weekend of February. If Greenberg gets the role, she will be one of  about 100 in the fair’s cast volunteering to entertain guests at the winter event. Greenberg already considers herself a part of the team.
“We don’t care who you are, where 
you come from, what you know, what you don’t know,” she said. “We’re going to accept you with open arms. We’ll ﬁ  nd something for you.”
The fair’s director, Candice Cham-
bers, and two other organizers, sat under a shaded tent at North Central Florida YMCA, located at 5201 NW 34th Blvd., and gave hopeful audi-tioners advice about how to mold their characters. Chambers has been Medieval fair recruits actors
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida man was arrested 
for hitting two strangers Satur-
day, but he said he didn’t re-
member doing it, Gainesville 
Police said.
Connor Michael Lewis, 25, 
walked up to a woman near 
LynCourt Square Apartments 
on Southwest Third Avenue and punched her in the face at about 6:12 p.m., during the Florida vs. Tennessee football game, ac-
cording to an arrest report. Po-
lice said the woman had swell-ing on her cheek and a small cut on her lip.
Lewis then walked up to a car 
stopped in trafﬁ  c and punched the driver through an open car window, according to the report. The driver tried to park his car to defend himself when Lewis 
grabbed the driver’s dreadlocks 
and ripped them from his head. Lewis tried to pull the driver out of his car before running away, 
a witness told police.
The witness told police the 
woman said she was attacked, 
so he called 911. He followed Lewis and saw him attack the 
second victim, according to the 
report.Ofﬁ  cers found Lewis a few 
minutes after the attack and ar-
rested him on charges of assault 
and simple battery.
After his arrest, Lewis told 
police he had been drinking beer and whiskey since 3 p.m. Satur-
day, according to the report.
Lewis was taken to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he was 
released on his own recogni-
zance Sunday afternoon.
Lewis could not be reached 
for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: Man assaults two strangers
SEE MEDIEVAL,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
HIGH  90° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031. 
Meetings are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, visit talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org/.
English and citizenship classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program offers free English and citizen-
ship classes at the Alachua 
County Library District Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. English classes will be Tuesday evenings from 6 p.m. 
to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14, 
and citizenship classes will be Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more information or to 
register, visit latinawomens-
league.org or email info@lati-nawomensleaguer.org. 
Pirate Murder Mystery
Celebrate International Talk Like a Pirate Day at the Florida Museum of Natural History with some murd-argh Tuesday 
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Come 
dressed in swashbuckling at-tire, and join the museum for this pirate-themed interactive 
theater event. The experi-
ence includes a served buf-fet and a signature cocktail. 
Pre-registration is required. 
For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/murder-mystery or call 352-273-2061.
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad 
Fair on the North Lawn on 
Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad pro-gram directors and indepen-dent program providers will 
have table displays and be 
available to answer questions. Former study-abroad students will share their international 
experiences. The UF Study 
Abroad Services staff will also be available to explain the ap-plication process and to help students find the right pro-gram. Overseas internship opportunities are available. Study abroad can be used to 
satisfy Summer residency re-
quirements, and most finan-cial aid can be used. For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-
273-1539. 
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
Wild Blue Yonder Wild Blue Yonder, a classic 
rock band, will play Friday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University 
Ave., as part of the City of 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department’s “Free Fridays” 
concert series. Concerts occur 
every Friday until Oct. 20. 
GatorNights: Broadway, New 
York City
This Friday, GatorNights is 
taking you to the city that never sleeps with GatorNights: Broadway, New York City, in 
the Reitz Union. You’ll be the 
star of your own show as you take a photo on Broadway or make your own street sign. You can create custom air-
brush T-shirts or put your 
friends in a hall of fame with caricature artists. Create a set of cork coasters for your cast 
party or join GatorNights for 
Big Apple Bingo in Orange & Brew from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. Comedy and music duo Dakaboom will perform 
Broadway show tunes and an 
a capella set in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. The featured movie of 
the night is “Despicable Me 3,” 
premiering at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. The after-party continues in the food court as we serve pizza for Midnight Munchies. 
GatorNights is always Friday 
and always free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event. 
Karaoke at the Hippodrome 
 The Hippodrome State Theatre, 
at 25 SE Second Place, is host-
ing a karaoke night Friday from 8:30 p.m. to 11:55 p.m. 
The event is free and open to all ages. The karaoke will 
be held in the Hippodrome's basement, and alcohol will be available. 
Hispanic Heritage month: 
Fiesta Fiesta is one of the seven inter-nal programming events dur-
ing Hispanic Heritage Month. 
This social event will feature a Spanish music festival expe-rience. The theme is Vida en 
Color, which means Life in 
Color in Spanish. With food, giveaways and a great outdoor vibe, all individuals can en-joy and learn about Hispanic 
culture. Fiesta will be held on 
Flavet Field on Sept. 29 at 7 p.m.
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21 
The David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service is holding a Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join 
several hundred volunteers 
for a day of reflection and service for a wide variety of nonprofits, including Keep 
Alachua County Beautiful, 
Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The Repurpose 
Project, Operation Catnip and 
more. For more information, call 352-392-1215, email cls@leadershipandservice.ufl.edu, 
or visit bit.ly/daysofservice.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerVOLUME 112 ISSUE 11THE UNIVERSITY 
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
SPENT $79,000.
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
The phrase “This is... The 
Swamp” will be illuminated for 
all to see during night football 
games at the Ben Hill Griffin Sta-dium.
The stadium’s wing wall signs, 
which are now illuminated, were remodeled in June. The new wall 
signs officially lit up for the first 
time Sept. 7.
The University Athletic Asso-
ciation spent $79,000 on the new illuminated signs, said Senior As-sociate Athletics Director Steve 
McClain.“We thought the upgrade 
would be a nicer, cleaner look,” 
said Assistant Athletics Director Alicia Longworth.
The illuminated signs still 
have the same messages prior to the upgrade, “This Is…  Gator Country” and “This is… The 
Swamp.” All of the champion-ship dates were also replaced 
with the new signs. The upgrades 
come one month after the UAA 
added an electronic ribbon board around the stadium.
The UAA partnered with 
Gainesville Neon & Signs for the nearly four-month-long project to 
upgrade the signs.
Kallie Carlton, an 18-year-old 
UF health science freshman, and her family have been UF football 
season ticket holders for 40 years. Carlton is looking forward to the 
new additions to the stadium.
“As a longtime Gator fan, I 
think these new wing walls will really amp up the stadium I’ve 
grown up loving,” Carlton said.
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
100’s of
New Choices
 final week
Where:
Reitz Union-Tabling Area
When:
Monday September 18 thru 
Friday September 22
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor: Programs
laST CHanCe
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium’s wing wall signs will now light up after a recent remodeling.
By Emily Nolan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville will get a taste of Latino ﬂ  are 
on its screens for the rest of September.
The Gainesville Latino Film Festival, now 
in its 13th year, began Thursday night with 
a screening of “The Violin Teacher,” also known as “Heliopolis,” a Brazilian ﬁ  lm di-rected by Sergio Machado, and will end Sept. 30 with a catered closing reception at the Historic Thomas Center, located at 302 NE 
Sixth Ave.
Haydee Clark, a 51-year-old Gainesville 
resident, has attended the festival for two 
years. She came to Thursday’s screening 
early and listened to student musicians per-
forming Latin American music.
“It’s important for people to know that 
Gainesville is a place where there’s a variety 
of cultures; we are open to every belief and tradition,” Clark said. “It shows people how beautiful it is to enjoy good music, ﬁ  lm and 
food from different countries.”
The festival will feature an event every 
weeknight. All the events are free and open 
to the public.
Today the festival will host its ﬁ  rst short 
ﬁ  lm competition at The Wooly downtown. 
A committee received 160 submissions, and 
judges selected 10 ﬁ  nalists, whose ﬁ  lms will 
be screened, said Juanita Duque, the festi-val’s assistant director.Duque said organizers were surprised 
they received so many submissions. She said the ﬁ  lms, amateur and professional, cel-ebrate Latino culture.
“Even now with the political climate in 
this country, it’s important to ﬁ  nd those 
roots that tie us all together,” Duque said. “These ﬁ  lms kind of say there are still some 
things wrong with the world, but there is so 
much more that is beautiful.”Gainesville Latino ﬁ  lm festival to run through SeptemberNew stadium wall signs to shine during football games 
A $2.7 MILLION GRANT WILL 
HELP UF RESEARCHERS LOOK 
AT THE DISEASE.
By Champe Barton
Alligator Contributing Writer
The National Institutes of Health has 
awarded a team of UF researchers $2.7 million 
to study whether it can use a rare immune cell in pigs to treat inﬂ  uenza. 
John Driver, the UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences assistant professor in the Department of Animal Sciences who received the grant, said the Natural Killer T (NKT) cells produce huge quantities of immune molecules to prompt speciﬁ  c immune responses.
With the right direction, the cells could be 
harnessed for anything from preventing infec-tious diseases and cancers to reversing autoim-mune diseases like Type 1 diabetes, he said.Pigs possess a version of the cells similar to 
those found in humans, Driver said. That simi-larity, paired with the prevalence of inﬂ  uenza in pigs, gives his team conﬁ  dence their work will translate to human treatment.
“We think we have some real advantages 
for helping people in the long run,” Driver said. “If we can use (this strategy) safely in 
pigs for different infectious diseases … then 
we’ll have more conﬁ  dence we can use this therapy for cancer and infectious diseases in human beings.”
Kelena Klippel, a 22-year-old UF alumna 
and incoming medical student at Cornell Uni-versity, wrote in an email that the research reﬂ  ects the core priorities of medical practice.
“This project will not only cause a waning 
number of patients with complications from a preventable ﬂ  u, but serve as a reminder that 
in the ﬁ  eld of medicine, it is very important to 
target conditions and prevent them before they need to be treated,” she said. UF researchers to use pig cells to study, treat inﬂ  uenza 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017THEY HOPE TO REINTRODUCE 
OTHER AT-RISK BUTTERFLIES.
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Museum of Natural History 
is re-establishing the Miami blue butterfly, a 
species at risk of extinction.
In the museum’s lab, hundreds of the en-dangered butterflies are being bred monthly to gain insight on larval survival, growth rates and host plant preferences, said Sarah Steele Cabrera, a research technician with the study.
The population of the Miami blue butterfly 
today is less than a fraction of one percent of what the population was in the past, Cabrera said. It is at risk of extinction, but the lab en-sures the species will continue. They are also studying how to reintroduce the Miami blue and other endangered butterflies in the wild.
“Ultimately, I hope to see the Miami blue 
thriving in many self-sustaining populations throughout its range,” Cabrera said.
The Miami blue is one of the rarest but-
terflies in South America, Cabrera said. Many 
native pollinators are declining due to human 
activity and studying the Miami blue can help the Florida Museum better understand the threats facing other pollinating insects, she said.Jaret Daniels, the head researcher of the 
Miami blue, said even though the animal is just a butterfly, it’s an important species to save. He said their study should go on until at least 2019.
“We carry a lot of cool organisms that 
people see but have never heard of,” he said. “These organisms are important and make Florida a unique place to live. We should not be dismissive about animals becoming extinct.”
Florida Museum works to save endangered butterfly
By Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the Heartwood Soundstage 
on Saturday, it rained laughter.
About 70 comedy lovers held 
their sides at the “We’ve Had It 
with Hurricanes” event from 8 
p.m. to 11 p.m. The event’s ticket 
sales and donations benefited the victims of hurricanes Harvey and 
Irma, said Bob McPeek, a produc-
er of and performer at the event.The performers donated their 
time, allowing for most of the money to be donated to Ameri-cares, a nonprofit that provides 
medical care to those in need. 
McPeek said the show raised about $900 for charity and ex-
pects the money to make a big 
difference in the affected areas.
“There’s no shortage of people 
that need it,” he said.
McPeek started organizing the 
event in August for Harvey vic-tims, but after Irma formed and 
hit the U.S. Virgin Islands on 
Sept. 6, it created a personal tie to the event.
McPeek’s friend lives on St. 
John, one of the  Virgin Islands, and wasn’t heard from until eight 
days after the Category 5 hurri-
cane made landfall. The storm’s winds peaked at 209 miles per 
hour, devastating St. John and 
the Caribbean, McPeek said.
“He pretty much has to start over again,” said McPeek.
The comedic songs’ topics 
ranged from an Irish jig about drinking beer to a story of a 
Gainesville woman who took city 
money and spent it on a butt lift. The show also included trivia for 
audience members and an impro-
visation session at the end.
Paige Nicholson, 19, said she 
enjoyed the dark humor in the show. She attended the event with a friend on a whim after she saw it on Facebook.
“I wasn’t sure what to expect,” 
said Nicholson, a UF health sci-ence sophomore. “I was sur-
prised at how small the event was 
and how community-oriented it seemed.”
McPeek said he hoped he dis-
tracted audience members from their problems after the storm.
“You’ve got to laugh in the 
face of adversity,” McPeek said. Comedy benefit raises money for hurricane victimsMice protein gives insight to 
dystonia therapies
UF researchers have made progress toward 
a more effective therapy for dystonia, a de-
bilitating and poorly understood neurological disorder.
Patients who suffer from dystonia experi-
ence sustained involuntary movements caused by abnormal signaling patterns between neu-rons, said David Vaillancourt, a UF professor of applied physiology and kinesiology and mem-ber of the McKnight Brain Institute, located at 1149 Newell Drive. Essentially, the brain sends the wrong signals to the muscles, causing mus-cle spasms and contractions akin to cramps, but without pain. 
Vaillancourt led a research effort into the 
disease’s physiological roots. His team’s study explored the effects of a specific protein in the brain, torsin A, which behaves abnormally in patients with the DYT1 variety of dystonia. 
When they eliminated the protein in mice 
with similar symptoms, researchers observed widespread increases in connection strength across the brain.
But that increase isn’t necessarily for the 
better, Vaillancourt said. 
“I would suspect that it’s not a good thing 
to have neurons across multiple brain regions highly synchronized,” Vaillancourt said. The synchronization correlated with in-
creased muscle twisting, like forcing a hand to clench and curl. This only happened in mice who had the torsin A protein removed, point-ing to the possibility of the protein functioning 
as a natural defense against dystonia symp-
toms, Vaillancourt said. 
Moving forward, Vaillancourt hopes this 
research will pave new avenues for the study of dystonia and for therapeutic interventions.
-Champe Barton
Researchers find low oxygen 
leads to fetal brain damage
Reducing oxygen for just 30 minutes, 
known as hypoxia, can drive bacteria from 
the mother’s body into the fetus’s brain, UF researchers showed.
In a study on sheep, researchers found re-
duced oxygen allows bacteria to travel from the mother’s placenta into the fetus’ brain and produce inflammation. The researchers believe a similar reaction occurs in human expecting mothers.
Charles Wood, a professor in the UF College 
of Medicine’s Department of Physiology and Functional Genomics, said expectant mothers should not worry about hypoxia from flights, high-altitude driving or sleep apnea.
Researchers used lab tests that simulated 
oxygen levels in the brain at about 12,000 feet above sea level to confirm this.
“This discovery shows that the presence of 
a small number of bacteria in the fetus is part of a normal pregnancy,” Wood said.
The findings will affect mothers and new-
borns by giving new best treatments for in-fants at risk of hypoxia-related central nervous system damage. Wood said this finding could potentially change the current treatment for infants who are suffering after oxygen depri-
vation.
Wood, who is known for his expertise with 
fetal stress response, said the finding was a de-
fining moment for his professional life.
“I clearly view this as the most important 
thing I’ve ever done in my whole career,” Wood said. “We think that this is a sea change in our field.”
-Rosanne Ramraj
UF standardizes new method of 
body measurement
A more efficient body measurement, which 
may replace the body mass index as a growth 
standard for health organizations worldwide, has been validated by UF researchers. James Berkley, a United Kingdom research-
er with the KEMRI Centre for Geographic Med-
ical Research, wrote in an email that the mid-
upper arm circumference (MUAC) is a simple and accurate substitute to BMI measurements.
By measuring the upper arm, where bone 
circumference is minimal, scientists get an ac-curate picture of a patient’s store of nutrients and fat in their body, Berkley said.
“It is much easier and quicker than mea-
suring BMI and performs the same or better in 
predicting survival,” Berkley said.
Lazarus Mramba, a UF College of Medicine 
statistician, demonstrated this in his recent 
study by examining the upper arm circumfer-ence and BMI records of several hundred HIV patients from Uganda and Zimbabwe. Mramba then compared both measurements’ accura-cies in determining survival rate. 
According to the study, MUAC is shown to 
be as, or more, effective than BMI measure-ment.
An article from Field Exchange, a site that 
catalogues researcher meetings, said MUAC was unable to be used in Syria earlier this year due to a lack of a universal reference standard. Mramba’s recent development will mean the MUAC will be standardized for future humani-tarian emergencies, Berkley said.
-Davio RodriguezRESEARCH ROUNDUP
involved in the event for 12 years, 
but this is her first year directing the festival.
Chambers and other organizers 
have auditioned people for three days. The roles available this year include knights, actors, jugglers and tumblers.“A lot of people are completely 
new,” Chambers said. “They’ve never had any training in theater combat.” 
Laura Landry, an insurance ad-
juster, spent her birthday Sunday auditioning for the first time. She said she wanted to be a frivolous yet good-natured jester.
“They handed me a character 
and, amazingly, it was a really fit-ting character,” the 47-year-old 
said. “I was totally shocked.”
Actors who received callbacks 
Sunday night will move on to the 
final round of auditions, from which the best will be selected for the cast.
Chambers said training begins 
the weekend after callbacks.
“We hit the ground running,” 
she said.After actors spend about six 
weeks learning how to wield weap-ons, they spend another six weeks writing their lines.
The actors, who meet from 9 
a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturdays and Sun-days until the fair begins, are not paid for their time. 
“We are all volunteers, from the 
board to every actor,” Chambers said.Greenberg, who has performed 
at the event for five years, said she likes how flexible the schedule is. She said actors learn a lot during their time at the fair.
“It’s just how much you put into 
it,” she said. “We’ll showcase all that you know and help you learn more about yourself and learn new skills and tricks that you can use for the rest of your life.” 
MEDIEVAL,  from pg. 1People auditioned to be knights, jugglers and jesters at the fairMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health Shands Hospital has 
joined a national alliance to teach 
women about heart disease and its risk factors.
WomenHeart: The National Co-
alition for Women with Heart Dis-ease is a network of hospitals around the country committed to providing cardiovascular care to women, said Elaine Vining, the senior director of the National Hospital Alliance at WomenHeart.
The program is gender-speciﬁ  c 
because research proves that heart disease is different in men and wom-en, she said.
“Having cardiac speciﬁ  c care, re-
search and support for women with heart disease is important,” Vining said.
Ki Park, an interventional cardi-
ologist at Shands, applied for a grant through WomenHeart, which will provide the hospital $30,000 over the course of two years. Park said she re-quested the grant to increase aware-
ness about women’s heart disease in 
the community.
“The idea is to help support 
women in our town or our area who have heart disease diagnoses and provide for them resources and support groups, and really just for education to the community as a whole,” Park said.
Shands will host a series of semi-
nars discussing women’s cardiovas-cular health, Park said.
Two female survivors of heart 
disease in the Gainesville area, called WomenHeart champions, will be asked to participate in the program. These women will be trained to talk to people in the community about 
their experiences and offer resourc-
es, discuss warning signs and high-light risks of heart disease.
The program helps hospitals aid 
women struggling with heart dis-ease, Vining said.“We want as many hospitals en-
gaged in the support and the educa-tion and the advocacy for women 
living with heart disease or women 
at risk for heart disease,” she said. “We’re thrilled that Shands hospital has become a part of our network.”
The membership with Women-
Heart will provide practitioners at Shands with resources that will edu-cate them on how to diagnose and prevent heart disease in women.
“We want folks that are in the 
trenches around heart disease in women to talk with each other and engage each other about what’s working in their hospital or commu-nity,” Vining said. “We really want hospital clinicians to learn more about the manifestation of heart dis-ease in women so that we reduce 
the number of delays of care and 
therapy.”
Vining said people tend to as-
sume that heart disease results from age, which is not the case. Rather,  reducing risk factors such as obesity and smoking at a young age will in-crease a person’s heart health.
“Too often we think of heart dis-
ease as something that’s your grand-mother’s disease, and it’s not your grandmother’s disease,” she said. “We need to think of heart disease as a women’s disease, not as an ag-ing disease.”
UF Health Shands Hospital joins women’s heart alliance
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will join the National Institutes of 
Health’s All of Us research program, a proj-ect that aims to collect data from 1 million Americans who are underrepresented in medical research.
“It ﬁ  ts with our research mission in terms 
of understanding what inﬂ  uences human health and human health outcomes, so we like to be at the forefront,” said William Ho-gan, the director of biomedical informatics at the UF Clinical and Translational Science Institute. “We have joined a very elite group 
of institutions around the country by being 
part of this initiative.”
The goal of the All of Us research program 
is to progress precision medicine, to use ge-netic information to more efﬁ  ciently treat in-dividual patients, Hogan said.
UF Health works with the program’s 
SouthEast Enrollment Center. The center, which combines multiple universities and 
groups, has collectively received $4.45 mil-lion from All of Us to recruit participants and 
collect data.
The SouthEast Enrollment Center will 
reach under-researched populations, includ-ing African-Americans from the Deep South and Cuban-Americans from Miami. Selected researchers are close to these communities, giving them better access, Hogan said.
UF will play a large role in recruiting ru-
ral communities in northern Florida, Hogan said.
UF Health will collect participants’ elec-
tronic information and send it to the pro-gram’s coordinating center at Vanderbilt University, Hogan said.
Hogan said the SouthEast Enrollment 
Center has an enrollment goal of 8,000 par-ticipants for its ﬁ  rst phase. Enrollments will most likely begin around January 2018.
Benjamin Judkins, a 23-year-old UF medi-
cal second-year student, said precision medi-cine has been a big focus in medical school.
“In a perfect world, it would be great 
to tailor everyone’s treatment to their own personal genetics, and hopefully we will get 
there,” Judkins said.
UF to study those underrepresented in medical research 
By Robert Lewis 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health and PepsiCo Inc. will help UF 
Health Shands Hospital be environmental-
ly conscious with an essay contest called It Pays to Think Green. 
Winning ideas from the contest will be 
used at Shands through a grant, said Chris-ty Morgan, a contest ﬁ  nalist.
The competitors, who are all Shands 
employees, had to come up with an idea about promoting sustainability at the hos-pital, Morgan said.
Essay submissions were due July 21 
Jacky Scott, a public relations specialist in strategic communications for UF Health, wrote in an email. There were 76 entries, and four ﬁ  nalists were chosen, Scott said.
The entries were reviewed by a panel 
of judges, including representatives from Pepsi, Shands and the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustain-ability, according to the contest’s website.
Finalists were chosen Aug. 11, Scott 
said. The voting period for the public be-gan Aug. 28 and ended Sept. 8, but the winner has not been announced, she said.
Two physical therapists at Shands Re-
hab Center, Morgan and her colleague Debi Jones, are ﬁ  nalists in the competition.
Their entry, Save the Trees, aims to 
reduce paper used in the UF Health Or-thopaedics and Sports Medicine Institute. With the current system, therapists can only access one patient’s electronic record 
at a time, Morgan said. 
Because therapists in the outpatient 
clinic see multiple patients at a time, they 
have to print each patient’s entire record, which can be up to 12 pages long, she said. There are 19 therapists in Morgan’s clinic, and together they can use between 400 to 2,400 pieces of paper per day. The paper can’t be recycled because it holds conﬁ  -
dential patient information, Morgan said.
Changing the system to view multiple 
records at once would be cost friendly and 
beneﬁ  t patient care, Morgan said.Michelle Musalo, a physical therapist 
at the UF Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, said the current system is 
time consuming.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult and inefﬁ  cient to 
close one patient record and then open 
another to log information for another pa-tient,” Musalo said, adding that changing the system would help make the depart-ment more environmentally sustainable.
As a result of Morgan and Jones’ sub-
mission, Musalo said UF Information Tech-
nology is working with the therapists to 
implement their idea, whether they win or lose.
Contest aims to make UF Health more sustainableThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORTrump’s complacency with racism is concerning
Another day, another tweet from Presi-
dent Donald Trump. It doesn’t quite 
come as a surprise to anyone anymore, 
does it? Our president has desensitized many of us to his cruelty and igno-
rance by exposing us to his repulsive words on a daily, or sometimes hourly, basis.
But let us not avert our eyes from one of 
his latest ventures: calling for the firing of ESPN host Jemele Hill, who characterized the president as a white supremacist on Twitter. Last Friday, 
Trump took to Twitter to write the following, directed at 
Hill: “ESPN is paying a really big price for its politics (and bad programming). People are dumping it in RECORD 
numbers. Apologize for untruth!”
Hill’s tweets, which she posted last Monday, had even 
drawn the attention of White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders during a press briefing Wednesday. 
Sanders, demonstrating her immense capability for incom-petence, said Hill’s tweets constituted a “fireable offense.”
A fireable offense? Really? Since when does the press 
secretary for a right-wing administration, or any adminis-tration, for that matter, suggest a citizen in the private sec-
tor be fired for expressing an opinion on Twitter? Hill did 
not call for violence, and frankly, she didn’t say anything others hadn’t already. Why exactly should ESPN fire her?
I read her tweets, which largely focused on Trump’s 
fitness for office (or, rather, lack thereof) and his empow-erment of white supremacists. She emphasized how our 
president has surrounded himself with members of the 
“alt-right,” a faction of the right wing that touts white na-tionalism, racism and anti-Semitism.
Lest we forget, Trump himself blamed “both sides” af-
ter white nationalist groups confronted Black Lives Matter activists in Charlottesville, Virginia, just a few weeks ago. 
Our president essentially compared members of the Ku 
Klux Klan to members of social justice groups, even after footage came out of white nationalists chanting “White lives matter” and “Jews will not replace us” as they marched across the University of Virginia 
campus.
And before you get too comfortable think-
ing perhaps Trump has pivoted (Can you even pivot from something like this? My gut says 
no.) from that stance, don’t hold your breath: Just this past Thursday, our president repeated 
his notorious “both sides” claim after a reporter 
asked about his meeting with Republican Sen. 
Tim Scott of South Carolina. Trump has sure distanced 
himself from the ideology of his favorite racist gremlin, 
Steve Bannon, huh?
Plain and simple, we have a man in the Oval Office 
who refuses to denounce racism and the agents of rac-ism. We have a president waltzing around the West Wing suggesting, on multiple occasions, that Black Lives Matter 
activists are just as bad as neo-Nazis and the KKK. He has 
had more than one chance to walk these statements back, to reflect on the blatant malice of his words. But Trump is 
an ignorant, prejudiced coward, and he has continuously 
indicated he is not willing to denounce racism.
If you refuse to denounce racism, you are racist. That 
is how prejudice works. If you are comfortable enough to stay silent when you hear prejudiced remarks — whether they are racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic, anti-
Semitic or anything else — your silence highlights your 
complicity. You are complicit in that prejudice. Prejudice does not allow for innocent bystanders.
So, you know what? Not only should Hill keep her job, 
or any job she wants for that matter, but we should listen to her closely. Because she is right, and she said it best 
herself in fewer than 140 characters: “Donald Trump is 
a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself (with) other white supremacists.”
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Let’s talk about 
what happened at 
Georgia Tech 
On Saturday night, the president of Georgia Institute of 
Technology’s LGBTQ+ student organization, the Pride Alliance, stood in a parking lot holding a knife. Scout Schultz stood there — in full view of a student dormitory — and told Georgia Tech Police to shoot.
This incident didn’t end with Schultz getting the help they 
needed. They weren’t subdued and taken to a psychiatrist. In-stead, the  21-year-old engineering student was shot and killed by campus police officers.
We’re mentioning this, dear readers, because stories like this 
are too common in the U.S.
According to CNN, a video of the incident showed officers tell-
ing Schultz multiple times to drop the knife. Footage taken by a CNN affiliate station after the shooting showed a tool that would 
“likely include a small blade” lying on the ground next to Schultz. 
A video showed Schultz walking slowly, with their arms straight down, toward two officers with guns drawn.
Schultz shouted, “Shoot me!”They were shot once and died later at a hospital.The fact of the matter is that Schultz was suicidal. They were 
carrying a small weapon and, according to the CNN article, were not threatening anyone. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation is looking into the shooting, but that won’t bring back Schultz’s life.
Something else to consider: The police told Schultz to stop 
multiple times, but if Schultz were a person of color, would the police give that many warnings? It seems like police officers are trained to take out threats by any means necessary — preferring guns over Tasers and lethal force over de-escalation.
Georgia Tech’s Pride Alliance website said Schultz, who used 
they/them pronouns, identified as nonbinary and intersex. Ac-cording to the National Alliance on Mental Health, “LGBTQ indi-viduals are almost 3 times more likely than others to experience 
a mental health condition.” 
We suppose this event struck a nerve with us at the Alliga-
tor because it’s reminiscent of the shooting of 16-year-old Rob-
ert Dentmond in March 2016 by Gainesville Police officers. Like Schultz, Dentmond appeared to want the police to kill him. He called 911 and said he was going to kill himself with an assault rifle. When the police came, Dentmond ignored commands and was shot and killed.
Dentmond was carrying an assault-rifle-style BB gun.
Police need better training on how to deal with mental health 
crises. Officers have to make split-second decisions for their 
own safety, however they should be trained to subdue suicidal 16-year-olds and 21-year-olds without lethal force. 
To any Gators out there who are struggling, please reach out 
for help. It may seem scary or frustrating, especially as the Coun-seling & Wellness Center has notoriously long wait times for ap-pointments (which needs a whole other editorial to address), but it’s worth it. There are therapists in Gainesville who can help. 
The Dean of Students Office has the U Matter, We Care program, 
where you can tell someone that you or a friend may be in trou-ble. You don’t have to suffer alone.
By sharing with others and talking openly about things like 
depression and anxiety, we can reduce the stigma surrounding mental health. As people talk more about it, we can avoid trag-edies like the deaths of Scout Schultz and Robert Dentmond, who could have recovered to live full and happy lives.
If you or a friend need help, please call the National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or the UF Counseling & Wellness Center, located at 3190 Radio Road, at 352-392-1575.
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
What makes a university great? Is it 
the academics? The prestige? The 
ability to help students move up the 
socio-economic ladder? And what are we really bragging about when 
we share a Facebook post about UF being a top-10 public institution?
UF and its students have been quick to cel-
ebrate this accomplishment because being a top-10 public institution has been UF’s goal for a long time — but, at least to me, it’s not clear 
what exactly this means.
Last week, UF was announced as No. 9 on 
US News & World Report’s Top Public Schools ranking — tied with University of California, 
Irvine and University of California, San Diego. UF staff and students shared this across so-
cial media. But what does being in the top 10 
mean for a university's students? Are there any measures that are relevant to students? Is it rel-
evant to professors at all? You’ll have to check 
the methodology to find out.
My fascination for the topic of school rank-
ings comes from the high school I attended — which ranked highly in the Newsweek’s, later The Washington 
Post’s, America’s Most Challenging 
High Schools rankings. Since that ranking is calculated by dividing 
up the number of Advanced Place-
ment, International Baccalaureate and Advanced International Cer-
tificate of Education tests given at a 
school by the amount of graduating seniors, this means schools had ev-
ery incentive to make students take more tests, 
but the outcome of the tests didn’t matter. Of-ten, the first year of an IB course would actu-
ally follow the coursework of an AP class, even 
though the curriculums were entirely different. These rankings have nothing to do with what 
is best or challenging — just how many tests 
they can pay for. 
Similarly, I’m not sure the US News & World 
Report rankings actually mean what most people think they do. The US News & World Report ranking takes into account graduation 
and retention rates (22.5 percent), under-graduate academic reputation (22.5 
percent), faculty resources (20 per-
cent), student selectivity (12.5 per-
cent), financial resources (10 per-cent), graduation rate performance 
(7.5 percent) and alumni giving rate 
(5 percent). It’s a formula that ac-counts for many different aspects of 
a university, but there are still parts 
that matter which are not included. Whether a university helps its most 
vulnerable students should also be a factor.
I understand that “best” can be difficult to 
quantify. However, it raises the question: Best 
for whom? This ranking doesn’t reflect many 
of the things that affect students the most — campus culture, job outcomes for graduates, 
accessibility to students of different socio-eco-
nomic statuses and more. Since UF has started its quest to become a top-10 public institution, 
it’s easy to see they have focused on the very 
things the ranking measures. But there are oth-er rankings out there where UF does not fare 
as well.   For example, the US College Rankings by 
The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education focuses on resources, engagement, 
student outcomes and college environment. UF ranks No. 58, compared to the US News & 
World Report’s ranking of UF as No. 42 in the 
national universities category. UF also ranks No.143 in the world. 
It’s OK to celebrate UF’s achievement — but 
know what you’re celebrating. The prestige factors such as student selectivity and under-
graduate academic reputation weigh heavily. 
While those are important and can influence a student’s choice to attend the school — they 
are not the only things that matter. Let’s find 
things to brag about that are quantifiable and concrete, that universities have historically 
struggled with — such as whether UF is good 
at helping low-income students, how UF en-courages minority enrollment and how gradu-
ates fare in the workforce. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
It’s been a week since Hurricane Irma 
did a number on the Caribbean islands, 
Puerto Rico, Florida, Georgia and South 
Carolina. Many are still reeling from the 
damages, stress and anxiety brought on 
by the storm. More than 6.5 million people 
were told to evacuate Florida based on the projection of the storm, and a lot of them did. 
The interstates quickly became clogged with terrified people desperate to get themselves 
and their loved ones out of the storm’s path.
For many people, the blanket term “loved 
ones,” includes pets. The internet exploded 
during Harvey and Irma with photos of cats and dogs left behind to fend for themselves. 
Probably the most popular photo depicted 
a cat swimming through Texas floodwaters 
looking extremely displeased. While many 
people laughed at this photo, it is important 
to note what may have happened in order 
for this photo to exist. It is entirely possible 
the cat ran away or was not someone’s pet. 
However, many photos of pets in Texas and Florida during the past couple weeks depict pets left behind by their owners 
who evacuated.
I get it, not all shelters are pet-
friendly. This makes evacuating 
with pets a real challenge if you’re relying on a shelter close to home 
rather than evacuating to another city. Pets can be difficult to travel 
with, especially when you and your furry friends are not used to 
traveling together.
I saw some posts on social me-
dia advertising that it is actually illegal for 
hotels or motels to refuse to accommodate pets under the Pets Evacuation and Trans-
portation Standards Act of 2006.
Unfortunately, this is inaccurate, but the 
PETS Act does make evacuating with pets 
much easier than it used to be. It ensures 
state and local emergency preparedness op-
erational plans address the needs of individ-
uals with pets and service animals following 
a major disaster or emergency. It authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency to provide rescue, care, shelter 
and essential needs for pet owners 
and the pets themselves following 
a disaster or emergency.
The point is, the preparedness 
and aftermath procedures put in place by the government account for pets. It may not be made im-
mensely easy to evacuate with them, but then again, evacuating 
in general is never easy. Packing 
up and leaving your home behind 
because it is no longer safe is terrifying. However, do you know what else is terrify-ing? Being tied up by the person you love 
most in the world and left alone while a mas-
sive storm rolls directly over you. When you 
adopt or purchase an animal, you are making 
a commitment to that animal. You promise 
to love and take care of it. You are adding it 
to your family. Possessions are replaceable. 
Homes, while expensive and with sentimen-
tal value, are repairable. Your family is not. Your spouse is not. Your kids are not. Your pets are not either.
During Hurricane Katrina, thousands of 
animals were left behind as people ran for 
their lives. Some were rescued and some 
were unfortunately not. People risk their lives to rescue animals that aren’t even their 
own while the evacuees who left them be-hind are making themselves safe. I don’t 
pretend to know what everyone who leaves their pet behind is thinking. I do know, how-
ever, they aren’t thinking about their pet. If 
you wouldn’t bring your pet with you, even 
if you would not be able to if you wanted to, 
do not get a pet.
Pets are blessings in our lives, and they 
bring us joy and companionship. If you can-not offer them safety, if nothing else, having 
a pet is not the right decision for you. Uncon-
ditional love should work both ways.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.What exactly does it mean for UF to be a top-10 university?
Pets are a part of the family, too, please don’t leave them behindNicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
Column
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
ABOUT 300 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE SHOW.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For the third year in a row, 
Gainesville got a taste of the biggest 
little show on earth.
Six professional dwarf wrestlers 
took the stage Thursday night: Loco, King Samoa, Blixx, Huggy Cub, Bub-bles and Lt. Dan, who emerged the 
final winner.
The Micro Championship Wres-
tling troupe, originally based out 
of the Tampa Bay area, brought its “midget wrestling” championship 
match back to High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., from about 10 
p.m. to 11:30 p.m. to more than 300 eager fans, selling out the downtown 
venue.
Waiting for the match to begin, 
the crowd screamed and chanted with an energy that rivaled a Florida 
Gators football game.
“Let’s go Gators.”“We want midgets.”
Pat Lavery, the owner of Glory 
Days Presents, the event manage-
ment company for High Dive, said 
the wrestling match is an event the 
venue looks forward to holding every year since it first hosted the troupe in 2014.
“We just kind of did it on a whim 
at first,” Lavery said. “Their ring fits right on our dance floor, we don’t 
have to worry about them hitting the 
ceiling ’cause they’re so short.”
By about 10:15 p.m., the first 
blow was dealt.
What started as a seemingly even-
faced round between the U.S. flag-bearing Lt. Dan and afro-donning, Pacific Islander-themed King Samoa took a dire turn when the lieutenant 
finished his opponent off with a sig-nature backflip bash tackle, to which 
the crowd responded, “USA! USA! USA!”
The night came to a close after 
all five contestants entered the ring 
together for a winner-take-all “Royal Rumble” match. Although Blixx won 
the initial championship against Huggy Cub in the previous round, 
Lt. Dan took the final winning title after the rumble match.
For Ian Heller, the match was a 
thrill to watch.
Heller, a 27-year-old Alachua 
County resident, said he felt he was witnessing classic themes of litera-
ture unfold in the narrative and act 
that the wrestlers put on for the show.
“This is all about good versus 
evil,” Heller said. “This is a modern-day Shakespearean tale right here.”Rachel Magasanik left the match 
with her boyfriend about an hour af-
ter it began.
Between what she felt were re-
petitive fighting matches, overly 
dramatic antics and a redundant emphasis on the fact that the fighters were dwarves, Magasanik said she got bored.
“Going into it I didn’t really know 
what to expect,” the 20-year-old UF 
tourism, event and recreation man-
agement junior said. “It’s entertain-ing, but it’s really demeaning to these people — I guess they don’t mind because they’re doing it as a job.”
Lt. Dan, 21, said joining the 
MCW troupe two years ago changed his life. Growing up in Sacramento, 
California, he said it was a school 
security guard who turned him onto dwarf wrestling when he was in sev-enth grade.
Going from being an awe-inspired 
middle schooler to a professional wrestler touring the U.S. two years after graduating high school, he said the troupe and the job both mean the 
world to him.
“I’ve always loved wrestling, I 
remember I was watching it on TV 
ever since I was a kid.” Lt. Dan said. “I’m living the dream right now.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Professional ‘Midget wrestling’ entertains Gainesville 
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
From left: Micro Championship Wrestling fighters Blixx, Loco and Huggy Cub get ready to face off as 
referees lay out the ground rules at the “midget wrestling” match at High Dive on Thursday night. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
IT’S GREAT TO BE A FLORIDA GATOR 
UF fans cheer on Saturday as the Florida Gators faced off against the T ennessee Volunteers. UF won the game in the final seconds. 
THE FREE EVENT FEATURED 
TWO MUSICAL ACTS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Although Risa and Paul George visited 
the Florida Museum of Natural History 
with their three granddaughters to see the frog exhibit, they stayed for the Latino festival Saturday.
“We were going to be here anyway, so 
we were pleasantly surprised,” Risa said.
For the 13th year in a row, the Florida 
Museum, the UF Center for Latin Ameri-can Studies and the Latina Women’s League, a nonprofit that promotes Latino and Hispanic culture in Gainesville, host-ed a festival to celebrate Hispanic Heri-tage Month, said Ellie Grosteffon, the La-
tina Women’s League event coordinator. 
The museum’s event, called Viva Mu-
seum!, was part of the Gainesville Latino 
Film Festival, a larger festival that is cel-ebrated from Sept. 14 to Sept. 30, Grostef-fon said.
About 200 people attended the free 
event from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturday. 
“We want our community to know 
we’re part of it and know about the cul-tural enhancement Latinos bring to it,” Grosteffon said.
Viva Museum! was South American-
themed and featured musical performanc-es from 5 Notas, a Latin American band from Tallahassee, and Danzas PeruJax, a Peruvian dance group from Jacksonville.
The event also showcased artifacts 
from the museum’s South American col-lection, including a Peruvian candlestick, an Ecuadorian roof cross, a Bolivian straw basket and a Colombian armadillo-shaped piggy bank. High Springs Orchard & Bakery offered snacks for the attendees including coconut crunch cookies, empa-nadas and mango mojito chicken.
Risa said she thinks it’s important for 
the community to hold these types of events.
“There’s no other way to appreciate 
each other if we don’t know each other,” she said.
Risa said when her granddaughters — 
4-year-old Evelyn, 2-year-old Evette and 11-month-old Evanee — saw the musical acts, they clapped and smiled brightly. When the last dance came around, they turned to their grandparents and asked “Is there more?”
Paul said he’s happy the museum, 
which he described as a gift to Gainesville, held the event.
“It’s not just a movie or TV,” he said. 
“It’s real.”
Ana Duran, a Colombian who moved 
to Gainesville last year after living in Bos-ton for 12 years, said she attended the festival because she saw it on Facebook. 
“I feel emotionally connected,” said 
Duran about the event. “These are my roots.”
She said she enjoyed the event and 
was surprised to see how well-organized it was, since she knew the Latino com-munity was smaller in Gainesville than in Boston. Duran attended the event with her son Daniel, 9, and her daughter Sara, 
2. 
“This contact with the museum and 
cultural event is key to the kids’ educa-
tion,” Duran said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgLatino culture featured 
at Florida Museum MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we believe in 
providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, and our District Manager position epitomizes this philosophy.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80K
Year 2 - $90K 
Year 3 - $95K 
Year 4 - $100K Year 5 - $110KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer 
 
AdvancementSIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.net
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
ALLIGATOR SHOW AND TELL
Dr. Franklin Percival, 73, holds a young American alligator upside down at the Turtles in the T aproom 
event at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Sunday. Percival, a retired wildlife biologist, was hold-ing the alligator upside down so that a child could touch the alligator’s belly.
FOUR VOLUNTEERS 
REPAIRED THE BIKES 
SATURDAY.
By Stephanie Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hugh Wu unscrewed the rusty 
handles of a red children’s bike.
Wu, a UF computer engineer-
ing senior, spent about three hours repairing the bike Saturday at The Freewheel Project, located at 618 S. Main St. Wu, 22, was 
one of four volunteers ﬁ  xing bikes 
for poor Gainesville children as 
part of the Saturday Bike Repair 
Clinic, which occurs weekly.
“It’s nice that these bikes go to 
people in need,” Wu said.
The bikes repaired Satur-
day will most likely be given to organizations including South-
west Advocacy Group and local 
schools. Don Hackett, 38, has repaired 
bikes every Saturday for six 
months and learned how to care 
for his own bike, on which he 
will ride from Key West to Cali-
fornia’s redwoods in the spring. 
“(The Freewheel Project 
is) kind of an unfound gem in 
Gainesville,” Hackett said. “I’ve 
learned the true innards of any 
bike. I’ve learned quick ﬁ  xes for 
the side of road in a pinch.”
Hackett calls Freewheel staff 
members “brothers” and wishes 
more people knew about what 
they do. The chef hopes to open a bike shop one day.
Ryan Aulton, the executive di-
rector of The Freewheel Project, 
said biking is a cheap and efﬁ  -
cient way of getting around.
“You know you give a bored 
kid a bike, and it’s like a life-
changing thing for them,” he said. 
“It’s giving them something to do 
so they don’t get in trouble.”Bikes repaired, donated 
to local childrenBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-22-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
WE'RE HAVING A YARD SALE!
September 23, 7am-3pm.
1211 NW 10th Ave.
More info: thefiatcenter@gmail.com     9-22-
17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     10-2-17-12-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITSFully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
BIG MILL'S CHEESESTEAKS
Now hiring line cooks, sandwich makers & 
counter personnel. PT, flexible hrs. Apply in 
person 2111 NW 13th St.     9-18-17-5-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for highly suc-
cessful Entrepreneur. Very attractive finan-cial package; must have vibrant personality. Housework, errands, office support, plan travel & social functions. Computer literate & willing to travel. Email resume' & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com  9-18-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1.  Exhaled wistfully 
1.  Turn in5.  Beginning, delivery 
2.  Judy ____6.  Void, wipe out
3.  Improve7.  Stick
4.  LatticeGSDHEI
TIUBSMTRHIB
UNANL
ANALRDG
CHENAENERAHED
GLIRLEANSWERS: 1A-Sighed  5A-Birth  6A-Annul  7A-Adhere
1D-Submit  2D-Garland  3D-Enhance  4D-Grille  B-Hindenburg9-18-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ was about 775 feet long.
BONUS
1. Name the last team before the 
2016 Chicago Cubs to have five play-
ers voted as starters for the All-Star 
Game.
2. Between 1979 and 1985, one 
reliever in each league led his league 
in saves for four consecutive years. 
Name the two pitchers.
3. Who was the last Ohio State foot-
ball player to be taken No. 1 overall in 
the NFL Draft?
4. In the 2015-16 season, the San 
Antonio Spurs tied an NBA mark for best home regular-season record (40-1). Who else held the record?
5. Who was the last NHL player 
before Ottawa’s Jean-Gabriel Pageau to tally four goals in a postseason game?
6. Who holds the Major League Soc-
cer record for most goals scored in a single postseason?
7. Which three thoroughbred horser -
aces make up the Canadian Triple 
Crown?
Answers
1. The 1976 Cincinnati Reds had 
five starters (Johnny Bench, Joe Mor -
gan, Pete Rose, Dave Concepcion and George Foster).
2. Bruce Sutter (1979-82) and Dan 
Quisenberry (1982-85).
3. Offensive lineman Orlando Pace, 
in 1997.
4. The Boston Celtics, in 1985-86.5. Detroit’s Johan Franzen, in 2010.6. Carlos Ruiz of the L.A. Galaxy in 
2002. 
7. The Queen’s Plate, the Prince 
of Wales Stakes and the Breeders’ 
Stakes.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 18, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ACROSS
1 British bloke
5 Title for a fictional
fox
9 Pancake syrup
tree
14 Prefix for “six”15 Coleridge’s “The
__ of the AncientMariner”
16 Partners of pains
17 Many Manet
works
18 Like a grand-
scale fail
19 __ Islander:
small-state
resident
20 Earnings before
the government’scut
23 End in __: come
out even
24 French street
25 Cops’ orgs.
28 Fave pal, in 
67-Across
31 German pastry33 Question as to
technique
34 New Haven
collegian
36 Cribbage piece
37 Gossip columnist
Barrett
38 Words on a “No
Trespassing”sign
42 Rockers’ sound
machines
43 Speck in la mer
44 Coloring cosmetic
45 Chessmen and
board, e.g.
46 Squeaky clean,
as hospital
supplies
49 Alternative to
grass seed
50 “No seats” initials51 Big __:
trademark burger
52 Gunk
54 Invention that
revolutionized
book production
60 First appearance
62 Promises at the
altar
63 __ Hari64 Smidge
65 “Me neither”
66 Getting people
out of harm’s
way, for short
67 Cellphone
messages68 Secluded valley69 __ of the woods
DOWN
1 Lamb serving2 Will beneficiary3 Rod on which
wheels turn
4 Rotini or rigatoni5 Secession
approved in a2016 U.K.
referendum
6 Jack the __
7 Arab leader
8 Piccolo relative
9 Actress
Hemingway
10 German eight
11 Element in
matches
12 Conducted13 Language suffix21 On the Caribbean
22 En __: on a hot
streak, slangily
26 “Stick around”
27 Influenced
28 Road that avoids
the city center
29 Crop raiser
30 Container with an
attached cover
32 Michigan’s __
Peninsula
35 Drips in a hosp.37 Classic roadster
39 Giant
40 Putting in office
41 Surg. holding area46 Workers with
anvils
47 Pay no mind
48 Begins a
computer session
53 Ad agency guys
responsible for
20-, 38- and 54-Across?55 Oxidation
damage
56 Beloved star
57 Roof gutter 
locale
58 Like short,
clipped notes, in
mus.
59 Burlap 
container
60 Va. summer
hours
61 __ out a living
By Brock Wilson
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/18/1709/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, September 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Directions home
4 Slow9 Key of Elgar’s
“Symphony No. 1”
14 San Antonio
Spurs’ 1993-2002 home
16 Employer of a
lizard and a pig
17 Author of the
2011 memoir “MyFather at 100”
18 Greek leader?
19 “I __ it!”
20 National League
athlete
21 Equilibrium22 Dale relative24 Weapon in some
supernaturalmovies
26 Thus far
27 Ship mover
29 Joseph of ice
cream fame
30 One of the
deadly sins
31 Event with a
caller
34 Fruit on a veggie
pizza
35 Justin case?
36 Undesirable
descriptor formakeup
37 ___-A-Fella
Records
38 Thus40 “Correct, cap’n”41 Currently 
airing
43 Hamilton notes45 Fight like sticks
figures?
47 Sch. with a
Providencecampus
49 __ Vogue
51 Thins, e.g.
52 Three-book
Newton work
54 Paper for a
letter?
55 Shun
56 Tried to contain
57 Zero out
58 1980s gaming
releaseDOWN
1 Annotate
2 Onward3 Symposium
groups
4 Big name in
anonymity
5 Cheese town6 Upscale tiers7 Standard
procedure
8 Japanese
cabbage?
9 Quartz type
10 Afrobeat star __
Kuti
11 Mouths
12 Realize
13 Pleasantly 
warm
15 “Harry Potter”
father figure
21 Parachute
23 Arabian
Peninsula veil
25 “Hello” singer28 City in central
Switzerland
30 Alive32 LeBron’s birth
city
33 Turn away34 Schwinn
component
35 Redwood City
locale
36 Door-to-door
offerings
39 First to fall in
most strikes
41 Elizabeth who
plays the Scarlet
Witch in Marvel
movies42 Legal 
orders
44 Wrest46 “Meh”
48 Concerning
50 Turndowns 
from the tartan-clad
52 Iberian land, 
to the IOC
53 Batter of 
balls?
By Erik Agard©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/16/1709/16/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 16, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16 Health Services
 18 Personals 23 Rides
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Correction from Friday edition
A column in Friday's section incorrectly stated that T exas beat Maryland 
in Week 1 of the 2017 college football season and beat San Diego State in Week 2. T exas lost to Maryland, 51-41, and defeated San Jose State, 56-0.Even as a freshman, Paige 
Hammons  has quickly made a 
good impression on Florida's volleyball team. Read the story, pg. 14.SOCCER: FLORIDA 2, IOWA STATE 1By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Surrounded by photographers 
in the south end zone of Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium, Tyrie Cleveland collapsed to one knee and began 
to pump his ﬁ  st.
He pumped it over and over 
again, overwhelmed with emo-
tion as he tried to wrap his head around what he’d just done.Moments prior, Cleveland had 
frantically been sprinting toward the goal line of Steve Spurrier-
Florida Field, attempting to chase 
down a 63-yard Hail Mary in the closing seconds of UF’s home opener against Tennessee.
When he hauled it in – ce-
menting a six-point victory for the Gators as time expired – chaos en-sued.
Players and coaches alike stormed off Florida’s sideline and began to dogpile the sophomore receiver, leaping on top of him and 
shouting with adrenaline.
The 87,736 fans in attendance 
exploded with excitement as well, 
jumping up and down and scream-ing at the top of their lungs.
“I’ve got some burned images 
in my mind that I’ll carry with me for the rest of my life,” coach Jim McElwain said. The Gators' ﬁ  rst victory of 2017 
wasn’t for the faint of heart.
After the game’s ﬁ  rst three 
quarters came and went with nothing more than a trio of ﬁ  eld goals, Florida and Tennessee com-bined to score 37 points in the ﬁ  -nal 14:23.
Quarterback Feleipe Franks’ 
completion to Cleveland capped off the madness, sending everyone 
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Sophomore transfer Parker 
Roberts, a former Kansas Jayhawk, knew heading into the weekend that Florida’s road game against Iowa State would present a unique challenge.
Roberts saw action in Ames, 
Iowa, her freshman season. A very speciﬁ  c aspect of that match stuck out in her mind: the turf ﬁ  eld. 
“It’s different,” Roberts said. 
“I remember going there, and it was just so much faster ... But I think we’ll be able to adapt pretty easily."
The adaptation may have taken 
about 45 minutes, but the No. 7 Gators (7-1) ultimately made it in a 2-1 victory in extra time against the 
Cyclones (2-6-1). 
Coach Becky Burleigh said the circumstances leading up to and 
during Sunday’s match made it a challenge to adjust. 
“It was just one of those grind-
it-out Sunday games,” Burleigh said in a release. “Different sur-
face. Tough turnaround. I think Antonio Callaway should not be 
on the Florida football team. 
No fancy lead-in, no crazy anec-
dote to start this one off. Just a ﬁ  rm 
statement. 
After Florida’s exhilarating 26-20 
win over the Tennessee Volunteers, UF’s ﬁ  nal justiﬁ  cation for keeping him on the team ﬂ  ies out the window.  
In his 2015 season as a freshman, 
Callaway entered Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium and almost immediately became 
a focal point in the offense. He burst into stardom as one of coach Jim McElwain’s ﬁ  rst weapons.
And rightfully so. He broke the 
Florida true freshman receiving re-cord and forced his way into other SEC record books with his blend of speed and playmaking. 
In his ﬁ  rst year, he was one of just 
six SEC freshmen to record three 100-yard receiving games since 2006. His game-winning 63-yard touchdown 
against the Vols in 2015 will go down 
as one of UF’s ﬁ  nest moments.
But the problems that have risen 
around him are beyond disturbing. 
First and foremost was the sexual 
assault controversy that began in Jan-uary of 2016, right after Callaway’s freshman campaign. Both he and former UF quarterback Treon Harris 
were handed suspensions and banned 
from campus for nearly six months.
Although the charges were cleared, 
it was revealed that the man oversee-ing the Title IX case was a former 
Gator athlete and donated money into 
both the football and basketball pro-grams. 
For me, that raises a neon red ﬂ  ag.  Notebook: Reliving UF's game-winning play
Cleveland's catch sends stadium into a frenzy
Gators win in OT, improve to 7-1 on seasonFlorida's win 
vs. Tennessee 
shows that the 
Gators don't 
need CallawaySky Dolla $ign / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebron
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sophomore receiver Tyrie Cleveland blew past the T ennessee secondary to make the catch that gave Florida a fairy-tale ﬁ  nish. 
“Growing up, I always dreamed of making that game-winning touchdown, " Cleveland said. "T o make it come true is indescribable. " 14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
Walk-ins Welcome
352-379-4686Interview 
quality 
haircuts 
for men 
& women 
everyday! 
Monday - Friday  
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Saturday  
9 a.m. - 2 p.m.
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Her list of high school acco-
lades takes up a whole laptop 
screen, and her talent and vol-
leyball IQ takes up the whole 
court on gameday. 
For the Gators, freshman 
Paige Hammons’ production 
since coming to Gainesville 
has boosted her into the start-ing lineup and bolstered an al-ready stacked rotation featur-ing the likes of All-American 
Rhamat Alhassan and senior 
Carli Snyder.
When asked about Ham-
mons’ impact for Florida since 
her arrival, Snyder credited her 
ability to take advice from ev-eryone on the team.
“She came in with such a 
good work ethic and such a 
will to learn,” Snyder said. 
“And I think that’s exactly what she’s done over the past month or so is just really, learn 
so much about our system and 
take all information with such an open mind.”
Hammons, a Louisville, 
Kentucky, native, found her-
self in the starting lineup on 
Saturday night for the second time this season, playing her best game in the process. By 
the end of the match, the fresh-
man ﬁ  nished with 14 digs, tied for the most on the team.
In an interview after UF’s 
match against Lipscomb on 
Saturday night, Hammons 
credited many of the seniors on the team in helping her im-prove her game.
“Rhamat (Alhassan) is (who) I look to for blocking,” Hammons said. “Carli (Sny-der) is mainly what I look to for outside hitting and CK’s 
(Caroline Knop) my go-to for 
serving and defense.”
The 2016 Miss Kentucky 
Volleyball has seen improve-ment in every game so far, 
ranging from her hitting to her 
defensive play. In addition to her 14 digs against the Bisons, Hammons was able to amass a 
season high in kills, totalling 
six kills on 19 total attacks.
But her early success 
shouldn’t come as a surprise. Before taking her talents to 
Florida, Hammons played for 
the USA’s junior national team from 2016 to 2017, winning a gold medal at the U20 Pan 
American Championships and 
a silver medal at the NORCECA Championships, a competition for national teams from North America, Central America and 
the Caribbean, as well.
As Hammons continues to 
grow at UF, her potential be-
gins to show as well, making 
it clear why she was named 
a high school All-American and FloVolleyball’s 2016 High School National Player of the Year. For the Gators, Ham-
mons is a welcome addition to 
a senior-heavy team, as one of her teammates put it. 
“She’s taking on a huge role 
and doing it so nicely,” Snyder said. “I give her a lot of credit. 
That’s something I could not 
do my freshman year.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgFreshman Paige Hammons thriving in an all-around role
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Freshman Paige Hammons has already made an impression on her teammates because of her work ethic.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
While no one proved that Callaway committed 
that heinous act, you would think he’d be in hot water with any more slippages being the final 
straw.
Nope. A few months later, there was a mari-
juana citation. That wouldn’t be so bad if it 
were his first offense, but it wasn’t.
Callaway walked into his junior year as a vet-
eran — someone younger receivers could look to for guidance. 
Instead, along with other veterans and 
youngsters alike, he gets another suspension for 
an allegation regarding misusing school funds. 
This is a player that is supposed to represent 
a top-flight SEC program. Not only that, but a 
school now ranked nationally as a top-10 public university, according to U.S. News and World 
Report. 
The only reasoning for him remaining on the 
team is purely his talent on the field. And now 
the Gators proved they can get by without that. 
Sophomore Tyrie Cleveland showed flashes 
of greatness last year and has looked solid in a prominent role. Freshman Kadarius Toney and sophomore Josh Hammond have provided solid outings and are expected to get better with more 
reps. 
Even from a purely football perspective, I be-
lieve that Callaway has become more of a luxury 
than a true need. 
But it should go beyond that. The Gators don’t need Antonio Callaway back 
anymore. And they shouldn’t want him, either. 
Skyler Lebron is a sports writer. Look out for his 
next column by following him on Twitter @SkylerLebron. You can contact him by email at slebron@alligator.org.present into such a frenzy that radio announcer 
Mick Hubert likened the atmosphere to that of an “insane asylum.”
 Freshman defensive back CJ Henderson 
showing he belongs:
Overshadowed by Franks’ game-winning Hail 
Mary to Cleveland on Saturday, freshman corner-
back CJ Henderson did something no Gator has ac-
complished since 1996: return an interception for a touchdown in back-to-back games.
Henderson picked off a pass from Michigan 
quarterback Wilton Speight in the second quarter of UF’s season opener on Sept. 2 and ran it back 41 yards to the end zone.
Fourteen days later, he did so again against the 
Volunteers, this time snatching a throw from Quint-
en Dormady to score from 16 yards away.
“It was just a gift, right place at the right time,” 
Henderson said in an interview for FloridaGators.
com. “The crowd went crazy. The craziest atmo-sphere I’ve ever been in.”
Henderson is one of two first-year defensive 
backs to receive significant playing time for Florida over its first two games – the other being Marco Wil-son.
The two have combined to record 17 tackles and 
three pass breakups this season, helping to fill the void left behind by departed cornerbacks Teez Ta-bor and Quincy Wilson, Marco’s older brother.
Henderson and Wilson will continue to play a big 
role for UF as 2017 continues. Despite their inexperi-ence, the two have already earned their teammates’ confidence. Just ask safety Chauncey Gardner Jr.
“We have the best of the best,” he said. “I would 
put those freshmen up against any wide receiver.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
our team handled it better than on the Seattle trip so from that point of view, I think we grew.”
Florida started off sluggish in its match against the 
Cyclones. A 14th-minute corner from Iowa State found an open attacker about 15 yards from goal. The vol-ley was smashed into the ground, caught a deflection just in front of UF goalie Kaylan Marckese and bounced lightly into the right corner to give Iowa State a 1-0 lead.
Through the first half, the Gators only managed 
two shots on goal to the Cyclones’ four. After regroup-ing to begin the second half, however, Florida's attack 
seemed to gain traction.
The Gators earned a corner kick in the 54th minute, 
and captain Gabby Seiler drove the ball in to freshman 
Deanne Rose. Following a fight for the ball at the near post, Rose eventually tapped it in for the tying score. 
The Canadian national team phenom hadn’t found 
the back of the net since Florida’s home opener on Aug. 20, but she was able to break that streak with a two-goal performance against the Cyclones. 
Rose’s second came just six minutes into extra time. 
Rose made a run into the 18-yard box on a breakaway and was on the receiving end of a well-placed pass from Roberts. Rose hit it on her first touch, firmly lofting the ball with her left foot over the diving Iowa State goalie and into the center of the net for the game-winner. 
Burleigh complimented her team’s ability to turn in 
a positive performance during extra time. 
“Once we went into overtime, we talked about situ-
ational play,” Burleigh said. “We practice situational play every single week. So we were kind of laughing about it, ‘Hey, we get situational practice against some-one besides ourselves.’”
The Gators will hit the road once again Thursday 
for a night matchup against Texas A&M in College Sta-tion, Texas. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFlorida's secondary looking to fill void left by NFL departures
Freshman scores two goals for UF on SundayAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Chauncey Gardner Jr. (above) was impressed with what he saw from Florida's younger defensive backs 
Saturday. “We have the best of the best, ” Gardner Jr. said. “I would put those freshmen up against any wide receiver. ”
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators freshman forward Deanne Rose (left) scored once in the second half and again in extra time in a 2-1 UF win Sunday at Iowa State.
NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13
COLUMN,  from pg 13
SOCCER,  from pg 13
that point in a 26-20 win Saturday against 
Tennessee (2-1, 0-1 SEC) in a game that introduced fans to what this Florida team 
can do.
“It obviously was not pretty,” Gators 
coach Jim McElwain said. “But sometimes 
as you go through this business, it’s about 
figuring out a way to win.”
After looking lost against Michigan in 
Week 1, the Gators (1-1, 1-0 SEC) hit the 
reset button this weekend when they taught themselves how to win.
As the Volunteers tied the game at 20-20 
with just 50 seconds left in the fourth quar-ter, it would’ve been easy for Franks, a red-shirt freshman in his first home game, to get 
hung up on the interception that cost Florida 
its last-minute lead. 
But faced with pressure, Franks showed 
why his coaches and teammates never hesi-tate to praise his steady demeanor.  
“You want to play quarterback in the 
SEC, (interceptions are) going to happen,” Franks said. “It just happens in the game, 
just kind of shrug it off.”
Franks followed his biggest error by find-ing Cleveland streaking past defenders and 
launching his second touchdown pass of the 
day, one that traveled 65 yards before it hit 
Cleveland’s chest.
“I think everybody found out that Feleipe 
can throw the ball a long ways in the air,” McElwain said.
Florida’s third-year head coach knew 
Franks wasn’t perfect, but couldn’t deny that Saturday would likely be a confidence-booster.
“I mean, (Franks) had some plays that 
he’d like to have back,” McElwain said. “But you know what? Getting a win under your belt playing an SEC opponent, you know, I think he’ll just continue to get a 
little better.”
Franks and Florida’s offense will need 
that swagger next week when they hit the 
road again to face Kentucky in Lexington. 
The Wildcats (3-0, 1-0 SEC) are coming off a 
conference win of their own, 23-13, against South Carolina.
While Cleveland said he’s dreamed 
about making a catch like the one the Gators 
marched off the field to, he and his team-
mates can’t afford to sleep on the Wildcats.
“I think we got a lot of confidence com-
ing off of this win,” Cleveland said.
“I feel like we’re going to come out 
against Kentucky next week and just leave it all on the field, play hard, play fast and just give it our all.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Gators move up from No. 24 to 
No. 20 in new AP Top 25 Poll
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
True freshman Kadarius T oney caught four passes for 40 yards on Saturday. After his first 19-yard 
grab, he lined up at quarterback on the following play, took the snap, faked a handoff and ran up the middle for a five-yard gain.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
QB Feleipe Franks completed 18 of 28 passes on Saturday for 212 yards, two touchdowns and one interception in his first game in The Swamp. Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Photos from Florida’s 26-20 win over T ennessee
Redshirt freshman C.J. McWilliams played his first snaps at Florida on Saturday. The defensive back missed UF’s season opener against Michigan with a hamstring injury. He redshirted and sat out the 2016 season with an ACL injury.  “It obviously was not pretty. But 
sometimes as you go through this 
business, it’s about figuring out a 
way to win.”
Jim McElwain
Gators football coach