We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 75 THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
UF trying to limit turnovers
The Florida women’s basketball team faces LSU 
today at 8 p.m., pg. 14
Alachua County to oﬀ  er free Arabic classes
Classes will begin Wednesday, pg. 5
Chemistry classes delayed by construction
Joseph Fernandez Hall is seven months behind schedule, pg. 4Local pianist to play Nobel concert
She’ll recreate sounds of 2001 ceremony, pg. 5
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
BACK TO BOOKS
Cameron Brookﬁ  eld, a 22-year-old UF philosophy senior, searches for philosophy books at the UF Bookstore on Wednesday. “It’s my last year, and I’m ready to move on, ” Brookﬁ  eld said. “I’m inspired, and I’m excited. ”
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Noah Cellura wants eight UF fresh-
men to spend their summer in a Brazil-ian slum.
Cellura, a UF business administra-
tion sophomore, hopes to recruit  stu-dents to teach English to impoverished children in Rio de Janeiro through Project Youth Empowering Education Together, which he founded to ﬁ  ght education inequality. Project YEET, which he founded last year, will offer internships in Summer for students to teach English to local kids in Rocinha, the largest favela, or slum, in Rio de Janeiro.
Cellura, 20, said he is making the in-
ternship available only to UF freshmen to give younger students opportunities 
usually saved for older students.
Plus, he said, they have the same 
English-speaking skills as upperclass-
men. 
“I feel like UF freshmen oftentimes get overlooked for a lot of internships,” he said. “So I think a lot of freshmen end up feeling like they wasted their freshmen summer.”
Students have until Jan. 18 to apply 
online on the organization’s webpage. Before the trip, the interns will partici-pate in safety training and learn basic Portuguese, Cellura said.
 UF freshmen to teach English in Brazil’s largest slum
UF STUDENTS WILL PAY THE 
SAME AMOUNT.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Gators fans looking to purchase general 
season tickets will pay $50 more this year.  
Football ticket costs have increased from 
$330 to $380 for the general public, but stu-dent season tickets will remain at $140. The price spike comes as a result of several popular home games in the 2017 season, including against University of Tennessee, Louisiana State University, Texas A&M University and Florida State University, wrote Dan Apple, a UF Athletic Association spokesman, in an email. 
“The missed home games from 2016 had 
no impact on the price change, although now there will be seven home games in-stead of six,” he said.Single game ticket prices haven’t been 
ﬁ  nalized yet, he said.
Students will pay the same amount for 
season tickets this year after a $35 increase last year, Apple said. Fans purchasing gen-eral season tickets will still have to make a mandatory $100 minimum booster dona-tion, which hasn’t changed from previous years.
For the past 15 years, 48-year-old Chris 
DiMarco, a professional golfer and UF alumnus has been a Bull Gator ticket hold-er, by contributing more than $15,000 in donations each year. 
DiMarco said he plans to purchase tick-
ets again this year despite the ticket price increase, he said.
“Being a Gator fan to me is being the 
greatest fan in the country,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
 UF season ticket holders to see cost increase next FallCellura
SEE BRAZIL,  PAGE 4They will go over Summer
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After threatening an attack, a 
Santa Fe High School student was 
arrested Tuesday with three knives 
and a set of brass knuckles con-cealed in his backpack, Alachua Po-lice said.
Austin Ray 
Rouse Cormican, 18, made threats to harm himself 
and others at 
the 16213 U.S. 
441 school, and posted pictures of himself with sev-eral weapons to 
social media, according to a police report. He was arrested at the school at about 9:06 a.m.
Cormican faces a 10-day suspen-
sion and an automatic recommen-dation for expulsion, said Jackie Johnson, the Alachua County Public Schools public information ofﬁ  cer.
Of the three knives he possessed, 
two were foldable pocket knives and the other had a 3.5-inch blade, ac-cording to the report. 
He posted on social media that 
he intended to use the weapons at school, according to the report. Aware of his posts, concerned par-
ents and students reported Cormi-
can to school staff, according to the report. When he arrived at school Tuesday, he was confronted by school ofﬁ  cials.
He told school staff about the 
weapons in his backpack and was arrested on a charge of having a con-cealed weapon at school. Authorities 
took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where he was released Wednesday afternoon on his own recognizance. 
Cormican could not be reached 
for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  After threat, Santa Fe 
High student found with knives in bag
Cormican
Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  48°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes to 
the University Gallery
Gainesville cultural institutions will begin hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, 
starting today through March. 
The festival features more than 20 events. Cuban muralists, dancers, musicians, authors and academics are among those who will be featured. The first event will feature “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film 
Poster Collection” until Feb. 10 
in the University Gallery and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The University Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, the curator of the Popular Culture Collections at Smathers Library, on Jan. 13 from noon to 1 p.m.  All events 
are free. For more information 
about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day event Jan. 21Collectors from across the region will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural 
History visitors during the 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the museum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to interact with collectors and learn about the context and historical significance of their collections. Attendees will be 
able to view classic cars, ste-
reoscopes, Pokemon, Legos and more. The registration deadline to display collections is Jan. 14. Participation in the event is free. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collectors-day-registra-tion or call 352-273-2061.Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28Beginning Jan. 28, visitors to the Florida Museum of Natural History will be able to see big, 
loud and even poisonous live 
frogs in the museum’s new fea-tured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Showcasing various species of live frogs and toads, “Frogs” is the most advanced traveling frog exhibition in the country. The museum will host a public opening celebration that 
includes a Froggy 5K race on 
Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Jan. 24 or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit 
flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission 
to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults ($7.50 for Florida residents, se-niors and college students); $5 for children aged 3 to 17; and free to museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card.
Paddle Florida announces 
Great Calusa Blueway trip in Southwest FloridaFrom Feb. 11 to 17, Paddle Florida’s Great Calusa Blueway trip will explore the Southwest Florida waterways. This 57-mile paddling trip traverses Lee County’s creeks, rivers and bays 
where paddlers will explore 
mangrove tunnels, aquatic re-serves, Calusa shell mounds and barrier islands. The registration deadline is Jan. 28.The trip fee is $700 per person, with discounts for seniors, col-lege students and kids. The fee covers camping, meals, gear and 
personal shuttles, evening pro-
gramming and waterway guides.  Since the trip will traverse open waters of the Gulf’s back bays, Paddle Florida recommends sea kayaks at least 16 feet in length equipped with a rudder or skeg and spray skirt. For more details 
and registration, visit paddleflor-
ida.org. 
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Visiting Artist Lecture with Arthur Ou on Jan. 12The UF School of Art + Art History is presenting artist 
Arthur Ou as part of the Spring 
2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series on Jan. 12 at 6 p.m. in the School of Music Building, Room 101. Ou works in photography, painting, sculpture and installa-tion. He has exhibited interna-tionally and is an associate pro-fessor of photography at Parsons 
School of Design in New York 
City. Ou will give a lecture about contemporary art and culture as it relates to national and interna-tional trends. For more informa-tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 75
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris   
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
From left: Isaac Hill and Joey Schuller, members of the Pittsburgh-based contemporary street folk 
band “The Hills & The Rivers, ” perform outside the Bo Diddley Plaza on Wednesday. 
FRESH, FUN & FRIENDLY
Photos by Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff
More than 250 people attended the weekly farmers market held at Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza off of East University Avenue on Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. The market — held every week of the year — supports local producers and provides the city of Gainesville with entertainment from live performances.
John Steyer, 80, sorts through his vegetables on Wednesday afternoon in preparation for the farmers market. Steyer said he grows all of his crops on 24 acres of land. Momoko, a miniature Dachshund, is held by his owner at the weekly farmers market on Wednesday.THEY WILL BE ON THE BOARD 
UNTIL 2021. 
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Two members of the UF Board of Trust-
ees were re-appointed to their position by 
Gov. Rick Scott last month.
James “Bill” Heavener and Jason Rosen-
berg both began serving on the board in 2013, wrote UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes in an email. Their new term will extend to January of 2021.
Heavener currently 
serves as the chair of the board, while Rosenberg is the educational policy and strategic initiatives chair. Both men will continue to hold these positions dur-ing their new term.
“It is not uncommon for trustees to be 
reappointed for a second term considering the learning curve associated with under-standing our complex university,” Sikes said.
Members of the board 
are unpaid, she said. 
Rosenberg said he re-
ceived a personal phone call from Scott asking him to continue being on the board, to which he eager-ly accepted.
“I’m thrilled to be able to serve,” Rosen-
berg said. “It’s been a pleasure to be able to be on the board for the time that I’ve been on, and I’m very happy to be able to con-tinue my service.”
Rosenberg said as a trustee, he and the 
others will pursue the university’s goal of becoming a top-10 public institution. 
Sikes said the trustees will also tackle a 
$2 billion fundraising campaign for the uni-versity. 
“I just want to continue to help the uni-
versity become the best it can be,” Rosen-berg said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
IT IS SEVEN MONTHS BEHIND 
SCHEDULE. 
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After more than two years of construc-
tion, UF’s new chemistry building is still 
shuttered.
Despite initial plans to hold Spring classes 
in Joseph Hernandez Hall, located on the 
corner of West University Avenue and Buck-
man Drive, continued setbacks have forced 
the Department of Chemistry to delay open-
ing until April, wrote UF spokeswoman Ja-
nine Sikes in an email.
This is not the building’s first setback. 
It was originally planned to hold classes in 
Summer, but had to be rescheduled because 
it wasn’t complete, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
The project began in October 2014 and 
was originally scheduled to be finished in 
May 2016, according to Alligator archives. 
Construction is seven months behind sched-
ule, Sikes said.
The building’s budget — $51.5 million — 
has remained the same despite the delays, 
she said.  
While the setback in Summer was due to labor shortages, the recent delay was caused 
by an error with incorrectly manufactured desks in the first floor lab rooms, said Wil-liam Dolbier, the UF Department of Chem-
istry chair.
The building should be completed with the correct desks by February, he said.
“It would have been a lot more trouble if 
we had to re-register students and so, luck-
ily, we found out about it before students registered in the Fall,” Dolbier said.
These rooms would’ve been used for gen-
eral chemistry and organic chemistry labs. Instead, students were scheduled for labs in other buildings.
Dolbier said the department was cautious 
about scheduling classes in the building for Spring, so they limited enrollment based on the space available in other buildings. 
Although Avia Muller, a UF health sci-
ence sophomore, is looking forward to the 
new building, there was no space for her to 
sign up for an organic chemistry lab this se-
mester.
“I was a little bit bummed, because I 
didn’t really want to be a lab behind,” the 
19-year-old said.
Once the new classes are available, how-
ever, Dolbier said lab enrollment capacity will increase by about 50 percent.
“They’re going to be the best undergradu-
ate chemistry laboratories in the state,” Dol-
bier said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgConstruction setbacks stall classes at chemistry building
Alligator File Photo
The new Joseph Hernandez Hall, located on the corner of West University Avenue and Buckman Drive, in January. The building has been under construction for more than two years.
Project YEET will invite four 
interns during Summer A and four during Summer B. Students will pay $4,380 for each session or $5,430 if they want to stay for Summer C.
Cellura, who attended high 
school in Brazil, Panama and the United Arab Emirates, said he has grown up helping people in need. 
After starting Project YEET, 
he led a group of his friends last summer to raise money to build a bridge in Panama so children could get to school during the rainy sea-son.
This year, instead of raising 
money, Cellura wants to teach English. He’s now working with friends in Rio de Janeiro to set up the program and host the interns.
“I was thinking of what are 
skills that UF students have that people in those other places need, and I think the number one skill we can offer is English,” Cellura said.
He said he understands stu-
dents may be concerned for their safety in the favela, but they will be taught how to avoid being a target of criminals.
Liam Guerin, a UF exploratory 
freshman, said he’s planning to apply to the internship because he believes people can achieve higher levels of equality through educa-tion.
Although the 19-year-old has 
not yet chosen a major, he said the internship will teach him skills that will help him throughout college.
“What we’re going to be doing 
will hone in skills that will help me with whatever I end up doing,” he said. “Being organized, public speaking and just being able to see a completely different lifestyle will be a great perspective-builder, which is also good to have.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
BRAZIL,  from pg. 1It’s only for freshmen
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
STEPPING INTO SPRING
More than 30 students auditioned for UF’s female Bollywood fusion dance team, Gator Adaa, at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Wednesday night.
Heavener
 Rosenberg
Gov. Scott extends service for Board of Trustees members THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS
Katy Martin, a 28-year-old UF natural resource conservation senior, works out on the bleachers 
at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Wednesday. As the new year begins, some people made resolutions, with ﬁ  tness goals being among the most popular. “I want to learn Spanish and bike 1,000 miles, ” Martin said.
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
To foster an understanding 
among cultures, the Alachua 
County Library District is offering 
Arabic language classes starting 
Wednesday.
Classes will be held Wednes-
days at the Headquarters Library, 
at 401 E. University Ave., and will continue until June, said Nickie 
Kortus, the library’s marketing and public relations manager. 
Each class will begin at 6 p.m. 
and end at about 7:30 p.m., she said.
“Offering classes in Arabic 
provides another opportunity for people to expand their language learning, which improves com-munication and understanding,” Kortus said. 
Yaman Kutrina, a native Ara-
bic speaker, will be teaching the 
classes each week.
The Gainesville resident said 
Arabic speakers are in demand, 
and the class will offer Gainesville 
residents an opportunity to learn 
the basics of the ﬁ  fth most com-monly spoken language in the world. The county’s library system 
already offers language classes for children and adults in French, 
Chinese, English and American 
Sign Language. Kutrina said the new class provides a chance to expand what the library district 
currently offers and provides new 
opportunities for the community.
Theresa Sterling, the literacy 
coordinator for the district, said there is no other free Arabic class offered in the county.
Sterling said Kutrina’s services 
are more than welcome. 
“Those things wrapped into 
one wonderful volunteer and of-fered at the library is a pretty neat 
thing, if folks want to take advan-
tage,” Sterling said.  Alachua County offers first free Arabic language classes
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF researchers have helped discover 
a galaxy that produces stars at an unusu-ally high rate.
UF astronomers, along with Univer-
sity of Illinois researchers, published their ﬁ  ndings in November. The galaxy, SPT0346-52, is a hyper-starburst galaxy, 
which produces stars at a rate of about 
4,000 solar masses per year, said Jing-zhe Ma, a UF astronomy doctoral student who led the study.
By comparison, the Milky Way only 
produces about one solar mass per year, she said. Researchers measured infra-red light to conﬁ  rm the rapid formations when they realized the hyper-starburst 
galaxy wasn’t being caused by a black 
hole.
“We really would like to see more galaxies like this and understand what triggers the star formation and how that affects the growth of a black hole,” she 
said.
A researcher ﬁ  rst noticed the galaxy 
because of the high luminosity of in-
frared light the stars emitted, Ma said. 
Although the galaxy appears bright, it 
shines more brightly in the infrared spec-trum, which people cannot usually see.
A black hole could explain the high 
luminosity, Ma said. But because they 
found no evidence of one, the fast star 
formation had to be the culprit. 
“What triggered that huge star-forma-
tion rate is still a mystery,” Ma said.
- Isaac HellerUF researchers published their ﬁ  nd-
ings in November on why tumor cells resist therapy treatment and continue to 
grow.  
Scientists have known that through a 
process called epithelial-to-mesenchymal 
transition, or EMT, cancer cells trans-
form to move throughout the body, but 
they didn’t understand why this hap-pened. The UF team discovered that the cells undergo this process to strengthen unformed blood vessels that feed their 
growth, said Jianrong Lu, a UF biochem-
istry and molecular biology professor. 
Researchers have debated the EMT 
process since the 1970s, but the cells’ 
role after the process was unknown until 
now, he said. The UF scientists wanted to know how the cells affect cancer. The researchers found that, through 
EMT, cancer cells support the blood ves-sels that feed them, Lu said. The cancer 
cells coat the blood vessels, giving the 
weak, partly formed vessels more struc-ture to deliver blood to tumors.
“Basically, our data suggests that 
those cells can help tumor masses to sta-bilize their blood supply,” he said.
Lu said he hopes the research may 
help overcome some cancer’s resistance to therapies, since the EMT process pro-
tects cells. Now that researchers know 
more about the process, physicians can change treatment strategies.
“At least we provided a new potential 
answer to this question,” Lu said.
- Isaac HellerAstronomers help discover hyper-starburst galaxy UF researchers better understand cancer cell growthIT’S THE FIRST TIME 
THE CONCERT WILL BE 
PLAYED IN GAINESVILLE.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
Swedish-American pianist Ro-
berta Swedien is bringing the mu-
sic of the Nobel Prize Awards to Gainesville. 
On Friday, the Gainesville resi-
dent and music teacher will per-form The Nobel Concert at 7:30 p.m. at the Historic Thomas Cen-ter, located at 302 NE Sixth Ave., for the ﬁ  rst time in Gainesville. Through music and narration, Swedien will describe the events and festivities of the Nobel cer-emonies, where six individuals 
are recognized for their academic 
work. 
Swedien, 64, created the con-
cert after the Embassy of Sweden in New Delhi, India, asked her to create a program in 2001 for the ceremony’s 100th anniversary, she said. She has been perform-ing the concert around the U.S. ever since. 
“I think it beneﬁ  ts UF and the 
whole community because most of us don’t get to go to the Nobel Awards,” Swedien said.
Tickets for the concert are $15 
for adults and $10 for children.
Russell  
Etling, the cul-tural affairs manager for 
Gainesville’s  Parks, Recre-ation and Cul-
tural Affairs De-
partment, said the show is part of 
the city’s cultural co-sponsorship program.
He said the program lets culu-
tral organizations use the Thomas Center at a reduced price to host events for the community.
“It’s a wonderful opportunity 
to see the extraordinary talent that this community has,” he said. 
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.org  Local pianist to play 
Nobel Prize sounds
Swedien
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORThe (actual) 
dystopian reality 
of the US
Ever since the inception of dystopian ﬁ  ction, it has been a 
common trend to point at the direction a country is going in and liken it to a ﬁ  ctional dystopia better left in print. By far and large, the most common dystopia used in these comparisons is the one in George Orwell’s “1984.” 
For those who are not familiar, “1984” describes a bleak to-
talitarian society. An omnipresent ﬁ  gure known as Big Brother is said to loom over the citizens of Oceania watching their every move. It’s a popular comparison, used by both the left and the right. The left is quick to point out the fascist overtones, while the right is eager to counter with the communist implications. Either way, the important part of “1984” is that its society is controlled greatly by fear.
Every president, every political change and every new de-
cade brings with it cries that the new “regime” will lead the U.S. into an Orwellian state.
To this we counter that the fate of the U.S. will more close-
ly resemble another dystopian novel, Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New World.” 
Let’s look at the facts. A big part of “1984” involves con-
trol by fear at the hands of a totalitarian government seemingly ruled by a single entity. One of the main themes of “1984” in-volves controlled media, where only facts that the government 
has approved and distorted are revealed to the public, and the 
very language itself is modiﬁ  ed for the government to best con-trol people. Let’s be real though. While this comparison does hold for the former Soviet Union and North Korea, there’s little chance that the U.S. will fall to such measures, especially not with the checks-and-balances system that has kept our govern-ment running for so long — and with our divided media. Sure, there are outcries that certain outlets lean one way or another, but the fact is there is outcry.
Enter “Brave New World,” which is not as common in the 
high-school reading curriculum, but remains another staple of dystopian literature. This novel describes a society where ev-eryone’s pleasures are met. No one has to worry about war or famine. There’s plenty of entertainment, and citizens are en-couraged to indulge and consume in excess. From the moment they are conceived, they are told what they want and are given it. This is a society controlled by desire. No one questions their limited personal freedom — after all, what’s the point in com-
plaining if you’re being provided everything you could want?
Think about where the U.S. would fall in this kind of world. 
Information in the society of “Brave New World” is not with-
held. It’s just that no one cares enough to access it. In our soci-ety, serious, heavy news stories may capture our attention, but soon enough some celebrity is having a baby or some popular TV show has killed off another character, and everyone latches onto that instead. If the U.S. is heading toward one of these dystopian futures, it’s not toward the bleak, totalitarian one, but 
the ﬂ  ashy, mass-consumerist one — where the people are kept 
sated and quiet.
Social critic Neil Postman says in “1984,” Orwell feared “the 
truth would be concealed from us,” and in “Brave New World,” Huxley feared “the truth would be drowned in a sea of irrel-evance.” Looking at the news, where the top headline for weeks has been ﬁ  xated on what musicians are and are not going to play for President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration, well, it’s just a little uncanny.My new-semester resolution: be present
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit it. I tend to think 
New Year’s resolutions are a bunch of 
malarkey — and thank you, Joe Biden, for 
popularizing that expressive phrase. By 
Jan. 10, I’ve forgotten half the goals I’ve 
set for myself, and then I begin to hate the other half of the vague intentions I’ve set. (e.g. 
“Really, Mia? You wanted to ‘worry less’ this 
year? And how are you going to accomplish that?”)
That being said, there’s just some facet 
of resolutions that appeals to me. Maybe it’s the 
attractiveness of a clean slate, the beauty of the oft-
Instagrammed cliche “New year, new me.” Whatever the appeal is, I enjoy writing a few resolutions not for years, but for semesters. Here I present to you one of the 
resolutions I’m taking into Spring 2017 with the hopes 
that you’ll take it, too.
Here’s my issue. Sometime in the middle of each 
semester, right in the thick of second exams and hefty paper prompts, my nerves take hold of me. I begin losing sight of my priorities, and I tend to tune out important 
voices: those of my family, friends, professors and logical 
internal monologue. Instead, another message plays relentlessly in my head: “You’re not doing enough.”
I usually enjoy my classes and feel like my professors 
inspire me to complete my coursework and continue 
pursuing my dreams in philosophy and law — come talk 
to me in about four years to see if that still rings true, but that’s neither here nor there. When the stress takes over, however, I turn to outlets that “numb” the anxious pain. Suddenly, during the very times I should pay more attention to my lectures and 
get ahead on my assignments, I’m glued to my 
iPhone, and I can’t stop checking every social media account I have.
I can’t help it. It’s a nervous tick. I will 
scroll endlessly through my Twitter feed or 
bounce between Facebook and Instagram like 
a best-friend-turned-private-investigator trying to ﬁ  gure out who that girl is in your crush’s 
new proﬁ  le picture. The worst part is, I’ll start doing this 
during classes, and that’s a terrible feedback loop for me. 
I miss the important notes, I forget the page numbers I need to read, I start feeling lost when I study. And, arguably, the worst part: I’m not fully present anywhere I am.
So, here’s my solution. I will no longer go absent 
during interesting lectures, on coffee dates with friends or even while I’m walking through campus (Have you noticed the beauty of UF’s trees? They never fail to 
impress me. But I digress.). This will be the semester 
I take better advantage of my phone’s Do Not Disturb feature. This will be the semester I act with intention — the semester I am present. 
These past two-and-a-half years at UF have felt more 
like a few blink-and-you’ll-miss-it moments. I don’t want to miss any more because cycling the social media rounds helps me forget the work I have to do. I want to feel engaged in all of my experiences, whether they are 
good or bad. I want to feel the full length of 45 minutes of 
lunch with a friend or 50 minutes of a class lecture. If any of this rings true to you, I fully endorse your semester of presence. I won’t be offended if it takes you a little longer to text me back.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF philosophy and criminology 
and law junior. Her column appears on Thursdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
“This will be the semester I take 
better advantage of my phone’s Do 
Not Disturb feature .”THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
T op 10 albums of 2016
Rihanna, Kanye West and more, pg. 10THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Gainesville band to make TV debut
Big Shoals will be featured on Cypress Sessions, pg. 8By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Bonnie X Clyde is set to help 
students bring in the new semes-
ter with a performance tonight at Simons Nightclub, presented by Lucid Nightlife. 
The event, which will be the 
DJ-duo’s second appearance in Gainesville, will take place from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., with support from Nitti Gritti and local trap duo Part Native. Tickets range from $8 to $30 and can be purchased on Eventbrite. 
Bonnie X Clyde dove into the 
electronic world in the summer of 2015 with the single “The Ride” and never slowed down. Between releasing new music, touring the country and playing at festivals such as EDC Orlando and Life In Color, the two childhood friends have brought their vocal-heavy sound to stages all over the coun-
try. 
“We’re just trying to spread 
good vibes always,” the duo said 
in an email. “No breaks; we are always in the studio trying to ﬁ  nd that next wave.”
Gainesville’s own Part Native 
will open the show. Comprised of Tripp Churchill, 20, and David 
Hall, 19, the duo has been creat-
ing future-bass-and trap-inﬂ  uenced tracks and remixes for years, add-ing aggressive drops over already heavy songs such as Skrillex and Rick Ross’ “Purple Lamborghini.” The two have opened for other art-
ists in Gainesville such as San Holo 
and Hermitude, and they plan to continue making music and play-ing shows in different cities this year. 
“We basically started out of high 
school,” Churchill said. “We’ve been growing and working on mu-sic a lot, and we’re working to play 
bigger shows (in 2017).” 
Churchill and Hall, who were 
born and raised in Gainesville 
and identify as Gators, added that they’ve been working on collabora-tions with both Bonnie X Clyde and Nitti Gritti and are looking forward to releasing them soon.  
Krista Kingsbury, a 20-year-old 
UF botany and pharmacy sopho-more, fell in love with Bonnie X Clyde’s music after attending their ﬁ  rst Gainesville performance in February 2016. She met the duo af-ter at the side of the stage and has followed their music ever since. 
“They’re the type of people that 
will come out into the crowd and 
dance with you,” Kingsbury said. 
“They’re very in touch with their fans.” 
In addition to their great atti-
tude, Kingsbury pointed out that Bonnie X Clyde performed a mem-orable set. 
“They had the whole package in 
a set,” she said. “They never let the crowd’s energy die.” 
For Bonnie X Clyde, that ﬁ  rst 
Gainesville show was one to re-
member for a multitude of reasons. 
“Gainesville was so dope,” the 
duo said. “It will always stand out 
since it was one of the stops on our ﬁ  rst tour.” 
The Back to School Bash will be 
one of the duo’s last stops on their nationwide tour, which included their ﬁ  rst-ever performance on a main stage at Insomniac’s Count-down New Year’s Eve. For Kings-bury and many of their other fans, 
the duo’s success is satisfying to 
see. 
“I’m just happy to have watched 
them grow so far,” Kingsbury said. “They really do deserve it.”Electronic duo Bonnie X Clyde to kick oﬀ   new semester
Courtesy to the Alligator
Bonnie X Clyde will make their second appearance in Gainesville tonight at Simons, with openers 
Nitti Gritti and Part Native. The show starts at 10 p.m., and tickets range from $8 to $30. 
By Ana Katarina Stanic 
Avenue Writer 
The University Gallery will 
open a new exhibit tonight 
called, “Lights, Camera, Cuba!” that will be open for the public until Feb. 10. The networking reception will be held today from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
This exhibit is part of the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery where UF graduate student curators are able to organize and pres-ent art exhibitions. 
“Lights, Camera, Cuba!” 
was curated by students Kai-tlyn Hof-Mahoney, Nameiko Miller and Alexis Schuman.
“My role mainly involved 
coordinating communication between different parties, de-ciding what to include and researching the posters,” said Hof-Mahoney, a museum stud-
ies graduate.
“Lights, Camera, Cuba!” 
selections are from the “Efraín 
Barradas Mexican and Cuban Film Poster Collection” at the George A. Smathers Libraries. Ramón Figueroa generously donated these posters in honor of his professor, Efraín Barra-
das.
The poster for the show, 
“Soy Cuba,” or “I Am Cuba,” 
is for a 1964 Soviet-Cuban ﬁ  lm. After the Cuban revolution, the government turned to the USSR for ﬁ  lm partnerships. Many of these ﬁ  lms were forgotten, un-til they were discovered later in 
the U.S.“I developed an interest in 
Cuban art through my involve-
ment in the local arts scene,” 
said Bill Bryson, a Gainesville 
resident interested in exploring the exhibit. “I’m excited that opportunities are there to ex-tend our reach with these art-ists.”
The exhibit is part of a 
larger celebration of Cuban art and culture entitled “Bulla 
Cubana,” which aims to pro-
mote the exchange of ideas and inspiration between Cuba and the North Central Florida region.
“I think it’s great how the 
museum is incorporating new artworks and shining light on the talent of so many Latin 
American artists,” said Cuban-American UF student Jennifer 
Mendez. “This event brings awareness of Cuban culture 
through the lens of the artist, 
not only to the university, but the community as a whole.”
Taking place in and 
around the cultural centers of Gainesville, “Bulla Cubana” showcases the extraordinary talent of Cuban artists during a three-month citywide celebra-
tion, starting January and run-
ning through March 2017.
The “Lights, Camera, 
Cuba!” exhibit can be found at the University Gallery, lo-cated on Southwest 13th Street in Fine Arts Building B. The hours of operation are Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 
5 p.m.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ art exhibit to 
open, celebrate Cuban culture, history
ART
THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017  ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
Kirsten Chuba  is a 21-year-
old journalism senior from Los 
Angeles, California, and this is her 
fourth semester as Avenue editor. 
After graduation, she hopes to re-turn to the West Coast and work at People Magazine or the Los An-
geles Times. She also plays water 
polo at UF and invests way too much time and energy caring about Florida football. When she’s not covering Gainesville’s music, arts 
and entertainment scene, catch 
Kirsten doing extensive research on “The Bachelor” and the Kar-dashian family, or eating at Leon-
ardo’s, or both at the same time. 
If you have anything you think she should check out, email her at kchuba@alligator.org or tweet her @kirstenchuba.  Meet the Editor
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
Lance Howell might write the 
songs, play guitar, sing and handle 
the business ventures of his band, but he considers his bass player, Jacob Riley, the “secret weapon.”
Together, they are the two full-
time members of the Gainesville native band Big Shoals. 
They will be making their TV 
debut on Cypress Sessions, a TV show featuring musicians across Florida. 
Big Shoals will be performing 
their signature Americana sound 
at 7 p.m. Saturday at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts. The show will be recorded and present-ed to WUFT after editing.Howell had been routinely per-
forming at Loosey’s open mic night in downtown Gainesville in 2012 
when he met Riley. It wasn’t until 
the two became friends on Face-book that Howell realized Riley played bass. The next logical step to Howell was to see if Riley was interested in starting a band. The two have been performing together ever since. 
Although the band usually plays 
as a duo, Michael Claytor, a mu-sician and friend of the band, has an open invitation to rock with the band as a drummer and banjo play-er whenever he is available. 
“It’s been tough to ﬁ  nd people 
that could tour as much as we have in the past couple of years,” How-ell said. For this performance, they’ve 
added a few members, along with Claytor, to mirror the album sound 
as much as possible. Chris Hilman 
will be playing guitar, and Ryan Baker will be playing keys and organ. Howell said each member brings his own unique style to the table. 
“It’s exciting for us because it’s 
really going to be the ﬁ  rst time live that we are going to hear these 
songs as full as they are on the al-
bum for the most part,” he said.
Big Shoals will be playing songs 
from their two albums: “Still Go On,” which came out in 2014, and “Hard Lessons,” which debuted in 2016. 
They also plan to showcase a 
new song with a mid-‘70s rocker vibe called “Don’t Look Back.”
“It’s just a good, fun rock-and-
roll song that we’re just having fun 
with so I’m like, ‘We got to do it,’” 
Howell said.
Bill Bryson, the show’s pro-
ducer, said he chose Big Shoals for their unique genre. He classiﬁ  es them in the rock category, but he says they infuse Americana and alternative country to produce a noteworthy sound. 
“They’re a good example of a 
really great rock band performing in Florida right now,” he said.
Aside from just Saturday’s 
show, the band will travel to its favorite spot in Florida, Big Shoals State Park in White Springs, to col-lect footage for the episode, as well as go to Loosey’s, which the band considers its home base. The pro-ducers will also collect interviews from other people to talk about the 
artists. 
“We just try to develop a richer 
context of who the artist is in the 
episode on the TV show so that it’s not just a concert performance,” Bryson said. 
Big Shoals has played at venues 
ranging from back porches to loca-tions that hold up to 1,500 people. 
They look forward to stepping out 
of their typical bar venue for this show to perform in a theater set-ting. 
“It’s a bit of a new world for 
us all the way around, being able to play the songs this way live for the ﬁ  rst time, and it being recorded and videotaped,” Howell said. 
 Gainesville band Big Shoals to perform Saturday in TV debut
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Big Shoals, known for its Americana sound, will make its TV debut on Cypress Ses-
sions, a show featuring Florida musicians. The band will perform Saturday at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts at 7 p.m., and tickets are $20 at the venue.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Gainesville, sometimes thought 
of as just a college town, is known 
nationally for its music scene. Leg-endary punk acts like Against Me!, Hot Water Music and Less Than Jake made names for themselves in this small town during the ‘90s and early-2000s. 
Gainesville’s own No Idea Re-
cords works to continue the punk legacy by releasing new albums every year, not only from Florida bands, but from bands across the 
country. This label and Gainesville’s 
annual The Fest music festival seem 
to dominate public perception of Gainesville’s music scene. 
However, much of this “punk” 
music can feel redundant, even over-
played. Every October for the past 15 
years, aging punks and punk bands migrate to our town to play their re-union sets at The Fest, but let’s face 
it, these bands are often comprised 
of older, jaded musicians who have 
long abandoned their urge to make independent and experimental mu-sic. They release overproduced al-bums and go on world tours, and Gainesville is mostly forgotten for the 362 days of the year when The 
Fest isn’t going on. As someone 
who lives in Gainesville now, I can 
safely say I am over the days of the 
‘90s-punk resurgence. Luckily there is still a world of experimental and 
indie rock music teeming below the 
surface. Here’s a few of my favorite 
Gainesville locals who are pushing 
the envelope on Gainesville’s trade-mark sound.  
Theo Burrows — soundcloud.
com/t-s-burrows
Theo Burrows makes ambient 
indie rock in his bedroom. Taking inﬂ  uences from the great experi-
menters of the last 30 years, like 
Radiohead, Bjork and the Pixies, 
Theo’s releases feel fresh and origi-nal, especially since they come out of Gainesville, a town mostly domi-
nated by straightforward punk mu-
sic. Theo spends a lot of time tinker-
ing with sounds on his computer, making his productions extremely detail-oriented.
“To be able to put a lot of time 
into something and bring it to life is a very rewarding — if frustrat-ing — experience,” said Burrows, a 20-year-old UF English junior, of his music. “In recording, there is so 
much room to learn new techniques 
and skills.”
I recommend listening to the 
track “My Mind” to get started with Theo’s music. Its shimmering cen-
tral guitar loop is hypnotizing, as 
are the instrumental swells, with 
Burrow’s voice soaring effortlessly 
over them. The song’s 7/4 time sig-nature is impressive in itself. Keep in 
mind, this extremely dynamic track 
was recorded entirely by one guy in 
a bedroom. 
EW — ewwww.bandcamp.
com
Gainesville’s punk roots aren’t 
ignored by EW and, instead, are tak-en into consideration and then mu-tated. EW is a two-piece punk band whose vocals, lyrics, on-stage perso-
na and instrumentals are manic and 
off-putting to many. Consisting of 
only bass guitar, drums and vocals, EW’s sound is primal and crude. Vocalist and drummer Brooke Chek-
ofsky rants about gender inequality 
and body-image issues by telling 
obscene stories in her songs. For example, “Seriously” considers situ-ations in which men have made the speaker in the song uncomfortable 
with lines like “That guy from Ok-
Cupid won’t stop calling me. I’m se-
rious. It’s serious. That boy wanted 
me to be his mommy. I’m serious. It’s serious.”
While EW’s latest release, “Love 
Songs,” has a full and exciting 
sound, one has to see them play 
live to really experience the band’s uniqueness. Chekofsky and her 
bandmate, Zo, go on stage wearing 
absurd costumes every time. EW’s 
live shows are full of raw energy and sass, reminding me of what I’d expect an early Bikini Kill show to 
look like. 
“Last New Year’s Eve, EW played 
a show at Superfun,” Chekofsky, 28, 
said. “I dressed like Father Time, and Zo dressed like Baby New Year. 
As an old man and a nasty little 
baby, we ended the show, and the 
place was packed. As long as people are smiling and laughing and danc-ing, I am satisﬁ  ed.”    
UV-TV — youveeteevee.band-
camp.com
UV-TV utilizes a sound that is reminiscent of Sonic Youth through their male-female vocal trade-off and noisy guitar work. However, 
UV-TV is not a Sonic Youth cover 
band. Instead they take their clear 
‘90s inﬂ  uence and update it with 
upbeat drumming, ﬂ  owery melodies and fast-paced songwriting. UV-TV 
is a three-member band, with their 
female bassist and male guitarist 
taking turns singing lead vocals. 
They often harmonize, or scream, into their microphones at the same 
time. The band’s chaotic, overdriv-
en guitar work is kept on track by 
straightforward bass lines and tight drumming. 
The band’s latest release, 
“Demo,” was re-released last year 
by High Fashion Industries, a Chica-
go-based record label. The band has been touring regularly in the last two years and are shaping up to become 
nationally recognized indie rock 
stars, potentially putting Gainesville 
back on the map for American indie music. This is another band whose live shows really make them stand 
out. UV-TV can often be seen open-
ing for bigger touring acts at The 
Atlantic.
New year, new music: checking out some of GNV’s best
MUSIC
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
You’ve now slept off your hol-
iday food-coma, packed up your bags and suffered through the trafﬁ  c on Archer Road. It’s here. The dreaded syllabus week where the campus is crowded with star-ry-eyed ﬁ  rst-timers and returning students who have enough expe-rience under their belt to know a little of what to expect in the upcoming term. Alcohol is a to-ken remedy for those ﬁ  rst tedious days, and what better way to start the semester than to show up hungover for your ﬁ  rst couple of classes? Let’s drink! 
Take a sip when…
• You have spent more than 
two hours in the adviser’s 
ofﬁ  ce. 
• Your professor shows a meme 
during their introductory 
slideshow presentations.
• The price of your textbooks 
this semester causes you to 
have an existential crisis. 
• You sign up for way more 
extracurricular activities than 
you can realistically complete 
because your denial runs 
deep.Take a shot when…
• You stock up on healthy food, 
but deep down you know 
you’ll just go back to eating 
Chipotle and ramen for the 
next few months.
• You already know by the ﬁ  rst 
day who your professor voted 
for this past election.
• Your sleep schedule is 
actually that of a functioning 
human being… until day 
three.
• The UF bookstore and Target 
Copy resemble scenes from 
The Hunger Games.
• You have listened to your 
friend talk about her amazing 
winter break trip to the Alps 
for the third time — like, we 
get it, Carol, enough already. 
Finish your drink when…
• You have fallen asleep in one 
of your classes.
• You already have a test 
scheduled for the upcoming 
week.
• You get stuck behind a wall 
of students who seem to be 
competing in an ongoing race 
for slowest walker.
• Your syllabus weighs more 
than your sanity.By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Pretty much everyone agrees that 2016 was a ter-
rible year in general, but in a year with a lot of downs, we had some amazing music to carry us through those tough 365 days. There were dozens of perfect albums that came out last year, but here are my personal top 10 releases of 2016.
No. 10: Majid Jordan — “Majid Jordan”Majid Jordan released their self-titled debut Feb. 5, 
and it  remained one of the best albums of last year. With their unique R&B/funk sound, incredible vocals and ﬂ  awless production, Majid Jordan made an al-bum you can leave on repeat for hours.
No. 9: Solange Knowles — “A Seat at the Table”Solange Knowles released her ﬁ  rst album in eight 
years in late September to critical acclaim. “A Seat at the Table” is not only smooth and relaxing, but it car-ries a deep and important message. In a time where race is a touchy topic, most choose not to confront, Knowles takes it head on and speaks her mind on rac-ism, and she details experiences in not only her life, but in her parents and others lives such as hip-hop great, Master P. 
No. 8: Chance The Rapper — “Coloring Book”Chance the Rapper became a household name in 
2016 because of his feature on Kanye West’s song “Ul-tralight Beam,” and he continued the gospel-feel from the track with the release of his third project “Coloring Book,” which was a critical and ﬁ  nancial success. 
No. 7: Rihanna — “ANTI”Even though Rihanna is one of the most recogniz-
able artists in the world, “ANTI” was slept on in my opinion. It’s one of those albums you go back and listen to and forget just how good it is; deﬁ  nitely a top 10 album.
No. 6: Francis and the Lights — “Farewell, 
Starlite!”
“Farewell, Starlite!” is an album you may not like 
at ﬁ  rst, but will become one of your favorites if given a few listens. The album’s tracklist is absolutely per-fect, and it ﬂ  ows smoothly and has incredible replay value.
No. 5: Anderson .Paak — “Malibu”When I ﬁ  rst heard Anderson .Paak on Dr. Dre’s 
album “Compton,” I couldn’t get enough of him. With his one-of-a-kind raspy voice, Anderson .Paak is one of the brightest young talents in music. 
No. 4: Travis Scott — “Birds In The Trap Sing 
McKnight”
Travis Scott can produce as well as anyone else 
in hip-hop, and he can probably out-rap your favor-ite rapper. He’s now released four projects in the last four years, and he isn’t showing any signs of slowing down. “BITTSM” is perfect from start to ﬁ  nish to no surprise, and he has a top-four album for the second year in a row. 
No. 3: Bon Iver — “22, A Million”After ﬁ  ve years, Bon Iver returned with a short, 
but stunning album, “22, A Million.” Iver’s raw, high-pitched and layered vocals, and his creative use of unusual instruments puts him in a different category from any other artist. 
No. 2: Kanye West — “The Life of Pablo”From Kanye West debuting his album during his 
Yeezy Season fashion show, to a sold-out Madison Square Garden, to the Taylor Swift lyric in “Famous” that caused controversy, to the edits he made to the album over time: “TLOP” was spectacular. After ex-perimenting on “Yeezus,” many people thought West might have lost his touch and hip-hop roots. That deﬁ  -nitely wasn’t the case; “TLOP” is vintage West with a touch of new-school rap and hip-hop, and it is one of his best albums to date.
No. 1: Frank Ocean — “Blonde”I honestly wondered if Frank Ocean would ever 
make music again after disappearing for nearly four years. Eventually, “Blonde” was released in August and subsequently broke the internet. Ocean did not disappoint with “Blonde,” which is the most beautiful album I’ve heard in long, long time.
 Syllabus week editionRanking the top albums of 2016
LOCAL
 MUSICTHURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-5-16-11-2Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-2
2BR/1BA APTS ON UNIVERSITY AVEAcross from O'Connell Center. Modern, clean. Available January or earlier. $600/mo. K&M Properities 352-372-1509    1-9-16-5-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
LARGE 2 bedroom with wood floors located 
downtown. $1150/mth with utilities included. 
237 SW 2nd Pl. Call 870-2760     1-10-17-5-2
3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, 
W/D hook-ups, fenced backyard. $800/mo, $900 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave message.      1-31-17-19-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-4-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
GoAutoBid.com
Sell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
LIFEGUARDS- THE 300 CLUBPart-time opportunities for lifeguards at pri-vate pool centrally located in Gville. Flexible hours available. Lifeguard responsibilities including pool maintenance. 352-262-4329   1-5-16-3-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching 
& aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-13-17-8-
14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-11-17-5-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-11-17-5-15
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesTHURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Gucci of fashion
5 Manual reader
9 Certain highlands
musician
14 Celebrity
15 Salon service
16 Eco-friendly spa
brand
17 >:-(20 Gazpacho
ingredient
21 Grammatical unit22 Make up for
skipping classes,perhaps
24 Scholar’s deg.25 :-(30 Carpooling calc.33 Frigid end?34 Straight man35 Bust36 Vegetation38 Tarzan creator’s
monogram
39 Virus named for
a Congolese
river
41 Trains above the
road
42 Allows to attack45 “Smack That”
rapper
46 Manhattan part47 ;-)
49 Pro50 Cabinet dept.
with an Office ofScience
51 Dined at a table
for one
56 Near-failing
grade
60 :-O
62 Reached, as
expenses
63 Veiny cheese
64 Work with
needles
65 Med. specialty66 Couture line67 Gels
DOWN
1 Came to rest2 Long drive?3 Brown digs?4 Many an Albee
play
5 Puts on the
internet, e.g.
6 Poivre
companion7 Slow Churned
ice cream
8 Swarming (with)
9 Where many
aces can be
seen
10 Like some
academic walls
11 Menial worker
12 Part of NEA:
Abbr.
13 Demolish, in
Devon
18 Gillette brand19 Remove 
wooden pinsfrom
23 Sacred songs25 Mass
consumption?
26 Like links-style
golf courses
27 Sprang up
28 Razzie Award
adjective
29 Easy to prepare,
as desserts
30 Mushroom in
Asian cuisine
31 Raptor’s 
weapon
32 Go out with __
37 “The Jazz
Singer” singer40 Applicants with
low credit scores,
to loan officers
43 Dutch banknotes44 Günter Grass
novel, with “The”
48 __-plié: ballet
movement with
knees half-bent
49 Like marbled
steak
51 Houston pro,
locally52 Captain who
says, “For hate’s
sake I spit my last
breath at thee”
53 Sharp flavor54 Well-used crayons
55 Creator of Perry
and Della
57 Diamond
complement
58 Minute, e.g.59 Some NCOs
61 __ shooter
By Morton J. Mendelson
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/05/1701/05/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 5, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Alex McMurty  and the 
Florida gymnastics team 
met a disappointing end to a promising season in 2016. Find out how the team hopes to rebound in tomorrow's paper. Florida football adds early enrollees
A pair of prospects — athlete Kadarius T oney and defensive tackle Kyree 
Campbell — started classes at Florida on Wednesday. Both players will par-ticipate in Spring practice and will be eligible for the Orange and Blue Debut. Staff report
With football season having 
ended, several Florida juniors have 
announced their intentions to leave school early for the NFL Draft. Other underclassmen have yet to announce 
but are expected to leave, while some 
seniors are expected to be high picks as well. Here, we take a look at all of Florida’s potential draft picks. 
Name: Alex Anzalone
Position: LinebackerStatus: Declared redshirt junior
Alex Anzalone announced he will 
declare for the draft in a personal letter on Wednesday.
“Each time (UF QB) Rex Gross-
man threw a touchdown, I would jump up and down and yell as I ran around the whole house,” the line-backer wrote in the letter on Florida-Gators.com. 
“As I got older, I remember telling 
my dad, ‘There’s no way I can ever play for them.’ He insisted that any-thing is possible and if I really set my mind to something, I could accom-plish it.”
While he did get to Florida, Anza-
lone’s time at UF had its share of ob-stacles. 
The linebacker, who his 
teammates call Thor, had to battle through two season-ending injuries, undergoing shoulder surgery as a sophomore and suffering a broken arm against Arkansas as a junior. 
But despite missing five games in 
2016, Anzalone still finished third for the Gators in tackles. 
WalterFootball.com called the 
blonde bruiser one of the 10 best in-side linebackers in the draft.  Name: Caleb BrantleyPosition: Defensive linemanStatus: Undeclared redshirt junior
Whether it's because he’s making 
a goal-line stop or simply tucking 
in his shirt before practice, Caleb 
Brantley knows younger players look up to him. 
“I’m just trying to lead by exam-
ple,” the lineman said in Spring. 
And now, with three seasons un-
der his belt, Brantley can say he made his presence felt. 
If the redshirt junior declares for 
the NFL draft, he’ll have finished his UF career with a season to remem-ber: a team-high 9.5 tackles for loss, 31 total tackles — second best on the defensive line — and a memorable third-down, goal-line stop against LSU running back Leonard Fournette in the heart of Death Valley. 
Out of high school, the 6-foot-2, 
297-pounder had offers from Ala-bama, Florida State and a number of other high-caliber programs. But Brantley chose to go to Gainesville, about 60 miles outside his home-town, Crescent City. 
Should he choose to enter the 
draft, most experts expect to see Brantley taken in the second or third 
round, with ESPN’s Todd McShay 
saying the lineman could be picked as high as 23rd overall by Denver. 
The Broncos, a defense-focused 
team coming off a Super Bowl win, would be a fitting home for the line-man considering his intolerance of failure.
“Dang, he doesn’t like to lose a 
play. He doesn’t like to lose a drill. He doesn’t like to lose at all,” said Al Smith, Brantley’s high school coach. Name: Bryan Cox Jr. Position: Defensive endStatus: Undeclared redshirt senior
Every team needs a guy like Bryan 
Cox. 
Cox has been a mainstay along 
Florida’s stout defensive line that has churned out players like Dante Fowler, Sharrif Floyd, Dominique Ea-sley and Jon Bullard over the past few years. 
And though he’s not as her-
alded as those names, the 6-foot-3, 269-pounder has still been a model of consistency when healthy. In 43 career games, the redshirt 
senior recorded 98 tackles, 10 sacks, 15 quarterback hurries and three forced fumbles. Cox’s best year came 
in 2015, when he tallied a career-high 
45 tackles along with 3.5 sacks, six hurries and two forced fumbles. DECISIONS, DECISIONS
Emily Cochrane / Alligator
Jarrad Davis looks on, unable to play, during the Outback Bowl. Despite being limited by injuries late in 
the 2016 season, Davis is still projected as a high draft pick. 
SEE DRAFT,  PAGE 15
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Florida women’s basketball 
coach Amanda Butler has been in-
structing her players to “love the 
ball.”
Protecting the basketball has been an issue for her program all season, with its 282 turnovers lead-ing the Southeastern Conference by 
a landslide.
And when the Gators took the 
court against Auburn on Sunday 
in their first SEC battle of the new 
year, a suffocating full-court press from the Tigers forced 26 UF turn-
overs.
Butler knows her team’s in-
consistency at seeing possessions all the way through dampens its chances of being successful in con-ference play, and it’s become a focal 
point in her practices recently.“We’ve got to cherish (the ball) 
a little bit more when we’ve got it in 
our hands,” she said. “We can’t be 
so flippant with our passes and just 
be really sharp with our decisions.”
The coach, in her 10th season at 
Florida, has even implemented an 
analogy in team meetings to help her players take each possession more seriously.
“The concept of there being a 
$100 bill on every ball,” junior for-
ward Brooke Copeland said. 
“We’re trying to change our 
mindset of what it really means to Florida women’s basketball team trying to limit turnovers
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16Anzalone
 Brantley 
 Cox
 Davis
 Ivie
 Maye
 Sharpe
 T abor
 T ownsend
 Wilson
THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
His final season in 2016, however, 
was hindered by injuries. 
Cox started in just five of the 10 
games he played in this year and 
missed three games altogether be-cause of hand and ankle injuries.  
Despite the ailments, Cox contin-
ued to help lead younger defensive linemen like Jabari Zuniga and CeCe 
Jefferson this season. 
Even offensive linemen have stat-
ed Cox’s impact. 
“He would really get it all out of 
you each and every play,” sopho-
more Fred Johnson said.
“He’s a veteran guy again, and 
he’s used to playing against SEC op-ponents all the time. So I really just 
see it as a place for me. I’m glad that 
he’s here so I can get better in my technique and hone my skills against him and stuff.”
Name: Jarrad Davis
Position: LinebackerStatus: Undeclared senior
Wondering who the engine was 
that drove the nation’s No. 6-ranked scoring defense all season?
Look no further than senior line-
backer Jarrad Davis.
Davis suffered an ankle injury 
on Oct. 15 against Missouri, but he played through pain the following two weeks against Georgia and Ar-
kansas before missing the season’s 
final three games. 
But even so, he had an impressive 
senior campaign. 
Davis finished second on the team 
with 60 total tackles despite playing just nine games. He also racked up six tackles-for-loss, five quarterback hurries, two sacks and four pass break-ups.
The senior hasn’t officially an-
nounced his intention to enter the NFL Draft, but as he sat in Florida’s locker room after the Gators’ loss to Alabama in the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship in December, he 
all but assured reporters he would be pursuing an NFL career, adding that he'll cherish his time in Gainesville. 
“Sometimes I get these little flash-
backs, just thinking of the times we had out there. It just makes me real-ize, you know, I only have a month left,” Davis said after UF’s loss. “I 
only have so much more time left 
here as a Gator.” 
And when Davis enters the draft, 
there will be no shortage of suitors pursuing the run-stopping linebacker.
Several mock drafts predict Da-
vis will be selected in the first two rounds. NFL teams are high on him — as one Miami Dolphins scout told 
the Alligator in Knoxville during UF’s 
game against Tennessee in Septem-ber, Davis is one of the most com-plete linebackers in this year’s class.
At 6-foot-2 and 238 pounds, Davis 
fills gaps well, blitzes the quarterback with ease and is a natural leader who holds teammates accountable for their responsibilities on and off the 
field.
Look for him to do more of the 
same at the next level.
“I can say that I left this university 
with no regrets,” Davis said. “I gave 
everything I had. Everything.” 
Name: Joey Ivie 
Position: Defensive lineStatus: Declared senior
Joey Ivie didn’t bring any glitz 
with him when he arrived at Florida in 2013. 
But he did play right away despite 
being rated the fifth-best defensive lineman in UF’s 2013 recruiting class by 247Sports. It was in a rotation at first, but he started by the end of his sophomore season and continued to start in his final two years. 
His total tackles increased in every 
season as a result.
Still, entering the draft, CBS Sports 
ranks Ivie at No. 35 on its board of defensive tackles, saying he will go undrafted. 
Drafted or not, though, Ivie was 
clear that he’ll try to find a place in the league. 
“I am blessed to say I am pursu-
ing a career in the NFL,” he wrote on Twitter. 
He leaves a gaping hole behind 
at defensive tackle, but his spot is expected to be filled by his current backup, Khairi Clark. Behind Clark, the position’s depth is questionable. 
Ivie said his motivation to make 
an NFL roster is derived from his younger sister, Jordan, who died in a car accident in 2015.
“It’s awesome to be in this posi-
tion right now to be considered for the draft,” Ivie said after the Outback Bowl. “I feel like with my sister pass-ing away, it’s been a lot of encourage-ment for me to play hard and get bet-
ter every day for her.”
Name: Marcus Maye
Position: SafetyStatus: Undeclared redshirt senior
After Marcus Maye gave UF its 
third interception against Kentucky 
in September, the senior earned the 
honor of signing his nickname on the Gators’ “#GettheBall” whiteboard. 
“All day,” he wrote. But it’s more than just all day. 
Maye has been a staple of the Florida secondary all year, every year, since his sophomore season in 2014. 
Until a broken arm sidelined him 
against South Carolina this season, Maye hadn't missed more than two consecutive games for Florida. 
And he didn’t just show up. He 
showed out, even when battling dif-ficult circumstances.
“I think Marcus has done an out-
standing job and actually got us kick-started in that Georgia game,” coach 
Jim McElwain said of Maye in 2015. 
“Which is great to see because he 
was mourning the loss of a very close 
family member that week.”
Since becoming a sophomore, 
Maye finished each year in the top four for the Gators in tackles, includ-ing 2016 with 50 tackles, despite missing four games. 
CBS Sports predicts that Maye will 
be picked in the third round of the draft if he chooses to declare. 
Name: David Sharpe 
Position: Offensive tackle Status: Declared junior 
During the three-year rebirth of 
Florida’s offensive line, David Sharpe was the one constant. 
From the time he got to campus 
three years ago, he was ready to play at left tackle. He had both the size — 6-foot-6, 318 pounds — and the no-toriety —  a U.S. Army All-American who was ranked as a four-star recruit. 
And so he played, both under Will 
Muschamp in six games as a reserve and Jim McElwain as a starter from day one of his sophomore season. 
Sharpe reached the pinnacle of 
his college career in 2016, when he was UF’s only offensive player to start every game. He also got bigger, cur-rently weighing 357 pounds, the most on the team. 
Sharpe was the leader of an inex-
perienced unit that returned only one other upperclassman starter — center Cam Dillard — in 2016. The 2015 
rendition of the same unit allowed a 
nation-worst 45 sacks. 
But led by Sharpe at left tackle, 
the Gators’ offensive line improved enough to rank No. 71 this season. 
Even so, his decision to leave 
school early for the NFL draft was a moderate surprise. The junior isn’t viewed as a particularly elite pros-
pect, though he could have been told 
otherwise by advanced evaluators, much like safety Keanu Neal was a season ago. 
However, for right now, CBS 
Sports doesn’t even list Sharpe as an available prospect at tackle. 
As for a replacement, his starting 
spot will likely be assumed by either 
his official backup, Kavaris Harkless, 
or — more likely — starting left guard Martez Ivey, who played left tackle in high school.
Name: Jalen Tabor
Position: CornerStatus: Undeclared junior 
Jalen Tabor almost didn’t play for 
Florida. 
Back in 2014, he was set to en-
roll at the University of Arizona after committing to the Wildcats on na-tional TV during the Under Armour All-America Game. 
But with just four days until he 
was to enroll, the five-star corner de-
cided to attend Florida instead. 
He arrived in Gainesville as the 
top-ranked recruit in his class and 
quickly got on the field. However, for two years he lived in the shadow of Vernon Hargreaves. And even when Hargreaves left, Tabor was more-or-less on par with his counterpart Quincy Wilson. 
Hargreaves and Wilson are touted 
talents, to be sure, as is Tabor. But 
because of playing with them, Tabor 
was never able to separate himself and forge an elite image. 
Even still, Bleacher Report’s Matt 
Miller has him pegged as the first pick of the second round in the 2017 
NFL Draft. And while Tabor hasn’t 
announced whether he’s departing school early yet, it would be shocking if he decided to stay. 
Filling in for him and Wilson will 
likely be some combination of Duke 
Dawson and Chauncey Gardner or 
current UF commits Elijah Blades and Marco Wilson, brother of Quincy Wil-son. 
Name: Johnny Townsend
Position: PunterStatus: Undeclared redshirt junior
Johnny Townsend still has anoth-
er year of eligibility left at Florida, but don’t be surprised if Florida’s boom-ing punter leaves for the draft.
He’s that good.Townsend led the nation in aver-
age yards per punt at 47.9 and was named a semifinalist for the 2016 Ray 
Guy award, given to the nation’s top 
college punter.
And aside from his nation-leading 
punting skills, Townsend has also shown willingness to participate in punt coverage after his kicks, fre-quently running down the field to contain returners. He even saved a long return from extending during the 
Outback Bowl on Monday when he 
tackled Iowa punt returner Desmond King in the second quarter.
“I look at where I was my fresh-
man year and I look at where I am now, and I’ve made a lot of great strides,” Townsend said after the SEC Championship game in December.
NFL scouts think so, too. Many 
mock drafts have Townsend ranked among the top three to five collegiate punters, and if a team is looking to fill a need on special teams, Townsend would be a smart pick in the later rounds.
But the Florida punter is still 
weighing his options.
“If I come back next year, I’m just 
gonna work even harder and prog-ress as much as possible,” Townsend said.
Name: Quincy Wilson
Position: Cornerback Status: Declared junior
Wilson went from, “Woah, who is 
this kid?” in 2015 to an almost sure-
fire first-rounder in 2017. 
In fact, many mock draft experts, 
including Bleacher Report’s Matt Mill-
er, predict the 6-foot-1, 213-pounder will be the first cornerback selected come April 27. 
Playing opposite Jalen Tabor all 
season, who saw that coming?
Part of the reason for that is the 
secondary logjam created by players like Tabor and Vernon Hargreaves over the last couple years. 
But make no mistake: Wilson has 
produced when he’s played.
In 39 career games at UF, he 
amassed six interceptions, 14 pass breakups, 84 tackles and a forced fumble.
But he especially showcased his 
talents his junior season.
Three of his six interceptions came 
this year, including a pick-six against Missouri. He also added 33 tackles and six pass breakups, tied for second 
most on the team. 
Durability was never a question 
either because Wilson was the only 
defender to start all 13 of Florida’s games.
The Gators will without a doubt 
miss the smack-talking corner (re-member the “ducks don’t pull trucks” comment about Tennessee?) next 
season but should still remain elite 
defensively.
Not only is nickel corner Duke 
Dawson returning for his senior sea-son, but Wilson’s brother, Marco Wil-son, is a Florida commit and four-star cornerback according to 247sports.com.
DBU takes a hit losing Wilson, but 
if his brother is anything similar, UF 
will be just fine.
DRAFT,  from pg14Like Brantley, Tabor hasn't declared but is expected to 
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Jalen T abor gestures during Florida's win over Iowa in the Outback Bowl. A former five-star recruit, 
T abor is slated to be an early draft pick by many if he declares. 16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 2017
take care of the basketball.”
If there is ever a time the Gators 
(9-5, 0-1 SEC) need to take care of 
the basketball, it’s tonight when 
they take on LSU.
The Tigers (11-3, 0-1 SEC) spe-
cialize in manipulating their oppo-
nents into making mistakes. They 
lead the conference with 13.4 steals per game and have scored 207 points off turnovers over their seven previous contests.
“Taking care of the basket-
ball is the number one key to the game,” assistant coach Bill Ferrara said. “We have a lot of respect for 
them defensively.”
Offensively for UF, senior for-
ward Ronni Williams has shoul-dered the scoring load since soph-
omore guard Eleanna Christinaki 
left the team in mid-December.
The Daytona Beach native has 
averaged 26.3 points per game 
since Dec. 20 on 43-of-58 shooting from the ﬂ  oor. Her season average of 18.4 points per game also leads 
all players in the SEC, drawing 
praise from her coaches and team-mates.
“She (is) always just the emo-
tional leader that we need,” Cope-land said. “In going through difﬁ  -cult times, she really steps up and we know that everything is going to be OK because we have Ronni 
leading us.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg14Florida plays at LSU tonight 
• Florida (9-5, 0-1 SEC) @ 
LSU (11-3, 0-1 SEC)
 • 8 p.m. | Maravich Center in Baton Rouge, Louisiana
 • TV: SEC Network +
 • Radio: ESPN Gainesville
GAME INFO
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Brooke Copeland dribbles during Florida's 102-51 win over Southeastern Louisiana on Dec. 28 in the O'Connell Center. 