We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 98 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
Tale of two teams:
The men’s and women’s swim and dive teams 
share the same coach but are having very different seasons, pg. 16
Local tea store oﬀ  ering new Split-Cup 
Lollicup has sold about 1,000 since Saturday, pg. 3
Alachua County teacher honored as year’s best
The Oak View Middle School teacher was named the county’s T eacher of the Year, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
One word.
For the 50-person, mostly black 
crowd gathered Tuesday at UF, the us-
age and history of a single, six-letter 
word generated an hour and a half of discussion.
Inside the Black Enrichment Center, 
as a part of the university’s celebration of Black History Month, the N-word was freely used as attendees grappled with its meaning and searched for a conclusion.
“I wanted to talk about the mental-
ity of it,” said Vee Byrd, the director of Black Affairs and the event’s orga-nizer. “How do we combat the mental-ity around being a n---- and what that 
means?”
Byrd, who has given similar discus-
sions across the country for the past 
four years, began with the history of 
the word. “Negro” was a neutral term 
that meant black in Spanish, French and Italian. But with time, spelling and pronunciation changed and the 
word gained a new, derogatory mean-
ing in the U.S.
It was how slaveholders referred to 
slaves, how whites referred to blacks. Over time, as its general use became 
stigmatized, the word became a term 
of endearment among members of the black community.
“I wanted to understand why this 
word was so common in my own  As a part of Black History Month, 
students analyze history of N-word
SEE WORD,  PAGE 5
Catherine Dickson / Alligator 
About 50 people came together to hear Vee Byrd give her last presentation at UF as the director of Black Affairs. The 
topic of conversation was the history of the N-word, followed by discussion.
IT WAS A 51 - 50 SPLIT. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Stephanie Schroeder braced her-
self as the U.S. Senate voted to con-
ﬁ  rm Betsy DeVos as the secretary of education.
Although two Republican sena-
tors broke party lines and voted 
against the nominee, the Senate vote for Betsy DeVos tied Tuesday 
afternoon. And for the ﬁ  rst time in history, the vice president had to cast the tie-breaking vote on a cabi-net pick, and Vice President Mike Pence conﬁ  rmed DeVos, according 
to NPR.
Schroeder, a UF education doc-
toral student, faxed a letter to Sen. 
Marco Rubio’s Florida and Wash-ington, D.C., ofﬁ  ces Friday express the discontent of more than 140 UF College of Edu-cation students and alumni. De-spite receiving phone calls and 
letters to oppose 
DeVos, Rubio 
still voted for the nominee, along with most of his 
fellow Republicans.
Schroeder, 30, watched the vote unfold on a livestream on her phone while rallying with about 50 other protesters outside U.S. Rep. Ted Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce Tuesday. Her phone began buzzing with an-gry messages from her peers who 
signed her letter. 
“I think people were hoping, and 
they are disappointed,” she said. 
She said no one she knows in 
the UF College of Education has 
expressed support for DeVos. She said some didn’t agree with her stance on school choice, while oth-ers thought she wasn’t informed enough about special education for students with disabilities. 
Even though her letter was 
unsuccessful, Schroeder said she 
doesn’t regret it. She said she’s glad 
a group of education professionals were able to inform people about the education ﬁ  eld and DeVos.
 Despite DeVos conﬁ  rmation, UF education students hopeful 
SEE DEVOS,  PAGE 4IT DEBUTED AT THE KENTUCKY 
BASKETBALL GAME.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Karlee Smith saw the court of the O’Connell 
Center open up in front of her, revealing a lair of 
hungry alligators, she lifted her phone to record the 
experience on Snapchat.
For the ﬁ  rst time, a 3-D video installation was 
used before the game, which made the basketball 
court appear as if it was opening up to a swamp and 
displaying championship banners, said Alicia Long-
worth, the assistant athletics director of marketing and promotions for the University Athletic Associa-tion. 
Smith, a 19-year-old UF sport management sopho-
more, said the atmosphere at Saturday’s UF basket-ball game against the University of Kentucky was “madness,” especially when the court began to glow 
and morph.
“The ﬁ  rst part’s always my favorite, when they’re 
introducing the teams, and that made it even better I 
think,” Smith said.
The projection for the game cost more than 
$20,000, Longworth said. Four rented projectors were used to put on the display, but the UAA is look-ing into purchasing the equipment.
Buying the equipment would cost about $250,000 
to $350,000, Longworth said. 
She said it would be a worthwhile investment, be-
cause court projections are the future of venue enter-tainment in professional sports arenas. If purchased, 
the equipment could also be used for other events 
like volleyball games or gymnastics meets.
“As a staff, we continue to try to ﬁ  nd the next  UF premieres 
$20,000 3-Dprojection
DeVos
SEE PROJECTOR,  PAGE 4CAMPUSWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The Diversity Project’
“The Diversity Project” will ex-
plore issues with a focus on race 
and class through storytelling and theater. Your story may be incorporated into a live theatri-
cal/multimedia performance, 
which will become a platform 
for discussion and possible so-lutions. Students are invited to 
join today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union, Room 3310. Faculty and staff are invited Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2315. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at JeffPuf@ufl.edu for more infor-mation.
UF Symphony Orchestra concert 
Thursday The UF Symphony Orchestra, conducted by UF’s School of Music professor Raymond Chobaz, presents a concert Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. The UF Symphony Orchestra will per-form songs by Liszt, Creston, Tomasi and Kodaly. The concert is free and open to the public. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu/orchestra.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with as-sistance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is produc-ing an empowerment art show and performance-art showcase for the semiannual anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Friday and Saturday at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more information.
Kristian Black on being a person 
of color in medicineKristian Black, a second year medical student at the University of Michigan and admissions ambassador at the University of Michigan Medical School, will speak about how he navi-gates his identity as a black man within a top-10 university Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs classroom in the Reitz Union, Room 2201. The event will be hosted by Asian Pacific Islander American (APIA) Affairs and Black Affairs.
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
UF graduate and MythBusterTracy Fanara, a contestant on 
“MythBusters: The Search” and 
UF engineering graduate, will speak at the Marston Science 
Library on Feb. 16 at 2 p.m. in 
Room L136. Fanara, who is a 
scientist at the Mote Marine 
Laboratory, will speak on her “MythBusters” experience, re-
search on Florida beaches and 
waterways and storm chasing. 
The iSTEAM Speaker Series pres-ents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technology, 
engineering, arts and math.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death 
and wealth
Isabel Moreira will explore the 
relationship between wealth, 
almsgiving and perceptions of the afterlife in Europe between the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take place Feb. 16 at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, visit humanities-center@ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.
An evening of Finnish folk music
Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music” on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. Ave. The performing and songwrit-ing team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English and their native Finnish. They will also perform tradition-al ballads from the Finnish and Scandinavian folk traditions. This free musical program will be in Meeting Room A. For more information about library pro-grams, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.
‘Words on Canvas’: the Harn 
writing competitionWrite yourself into the art mu-seum. “Words on Canvas” is a poetry and prose writing com-petition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See the guide-lines at harn.ufl.edu/wordson-canvas. The deadline to enter is March 17.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3How can you practice af-firmative consent? Learn some strategies from Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence 
Education at GatorWell’s Sexual 
Consent Health Communication 
Campaign Phase 3. Check it out 
at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or con-tact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@
ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-4452 for 
more information and to request 
materials.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS:
In an editorial published Feb. 7 titled “Football is football. Politics is politics,” the Alligator incorrectly identified the Atlanta Falcons football team as the Alabama Falcons.
In an article published Feb. 7 
titled “UF opens South Florida office,” the Alligator incorrectly stated UF is 250 miles away from Miami. It is about 297 miles away.
In an article published Feb. 7 
titled “UF leads nation in black 
computer science Ph.D. stu-
dents,” the Alligator incorrectly reported that there were 148 black computer science Ph.D. students in the nation. There are 148 total computer science Ph.D. students of all races in UF’s CISE department.
CLARIFICATION:
In an article published Feb. 7 
titled “City Commission incum-
bent endorsed by community 
group,” the Alligator omitted the name of one candidate. His name is Perry R. Clawson, and 
he is running for District 2.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 98
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
INTERNSHIP FAIR
Chetana Seelam, a 23-year-old UF computer science master’s student, speaks with representatives 
from BehaviorMe, Inc. at the Startup Job and Internship Fair on the UF North Lawn on Tuesday afternoon. The Startup Job and Internship Fair was part of UF Innovation Week 2017.
ABOUT 1,000 HAVE BEEN SOLD 
SINCE SATURDAY.
By Klarizza Aggabao
Alligator Contributing Writer
When it comes to boba milk tea, two fla-
vors are better than one.
That’s how Lollicup sees it anyhow. In the four days since the tea shop, locat-
ed at 3550 SW 34th St., rolled out its new, 
double-chambered Split-Cup boba tea, scores 
of boba-crazed customers have slurped in ap-
proval.
Nam Diep, the restaurant’s manager, said 
the Split-Cups have become his most popular 
menu item, available in 14 flavors. The store 
has sold about 1,000 since the launch.
“We thought it was a great concept, be-
cause you can always get different types of 
drinks,” Diep said, “but to get multiple drinks 
in one serving, that’s the challenging part.” 
The idea for the cup came from a manu-
facturer in Taiwan who was looking to sell 
his new product, he said. 
“We came across them by accident one 
day, just browsing new ideas and stuff like 
that,” Diep said. “Then they presented us with that concept, and we thought it was 
great.”
Like normal boba teas, the $5.10 Split-Cup 
comes with tapioca pearls scattered through-out the drink.
Diep said he is considering expanding the 
options to include slushies, fruit teas and loose-leaf teas.
“For now, it’s just strictly milk teas,” Diep 
said. “We want to keep it logistically simple for our staff.”
UF student Nhu Le, 20, visits Lollicup 
about three times each week and was excited 
to try the drink when she read about it on 
Facebook. 
“I’ve had it yesterday,” the biology sopho-
more said. “It’s fun. It’s different. You can 
have two drinks in one.” 
The Split-Cup gave Le the chance to ex-
periment new flavors along with her favorite, 
honeydew milk tea. 
Le said she has been to Lollicup twice 
since Monday, ordering a Split-Cup boba 
with green Thai milk tea and mango milk tea 
Monday, and another with honeydew milk tea and royal milk tea Tuesday. 
“You only live once,” Le said, “so might 
as well try it.”Sales surge as Lollicup rolls out Split-Cup boba milk tea
By Jamie Shapiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than a year after he was thrust into 
local fame, Gainesville Police Officer Bobby 
White says he’s still striving to use his star to help those around him.
But this time around, the “basketball cop” 
is substituting basketball hoops and orange balls with birthday cakes and presents.
White, who earned worldwide acclaim af-
ter footage of him playing basketball on duty with local kids went viral, has partnered with the Ronald McDonald House of North Central Florida to host birthday celebrations for chil-dren temporarily housed at the Gainesville center, located at 1600 SW 14th St.
While their sick siblings receive care at UF 
Health Shands Hospital, the children and their families stay at the center.
“This is about the families,” said White, 
whose Basketball Cop Foundation last year funded the construction of multiple basketball courts for underserved children in the city. “Giving them something to look forward to, just for a little while.”
The first party was set for Monday, but the 
group of kids went home because their sib-lings were released from the hospital, he said. But it was only a minor setback, he said. Even though February’s group birthday 
party was canceled, the Ronald McDonald House still celebrates the children’s birthdays individually, said Theresa Drews, the direc-tor of house operations and programs at the North Central Florida location.
“We like to do whatever we can to bring 
a smile to their faces during their time with us,” she said.
She said a better time for White to start 
throwing parties would likely be in the sum-mer, when the number of kids living at the house increases. 
Finding full-time care for healthy kids can be difficult, as parents struggle to care for a sick child, she said. 
“(Parents) want the least disturbance for 
their kids,” she said. 
Drews and White have discussed the pos-
sibility of the Basketball Cop Foundation helping with the house’s annual “Christmas 
in July” celebration, the biggest party the or-
ganization hosts.
White said his foundation will involve it-
self more with the Ronald McDonald Houses’ activities and that he wants to provide the children with gifts and a few hours of enjoy-ment, he said. “While they’re here in our city, it’s our job to be welcoming.”
GPD’s ‘Basketball Cop’ to host birthday parties for kids
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
What would have been the only  
Student Government debate of the semester was canceled after only one party registered an executive ticket. 
Impact Party is the only party 
running a Student Body president, vice president and treasurer candi-date for the Spring SG election.
James Tyger, the associate di-
rector of SG advising and opera-tions, said at an executive meet-ing Tuesday that UF Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs canceled 
the event, scheduled for Feb. 14, 
because Impact candidates had no opposition.
“There was only one full execu-
tive slate, so Eric has decided to cancel the debate, since obviously there’s no one to debate,” Tyger said.
Progress Party, which has sev-
en Student Senate candidates, at-tempted to register students for an executive ticket, but two were in-eligible because they haven’t been enrolled at UF long enough, Hobbs said.
The last time a debate was can-
celed was in 2014, when the Fresh-man Leadership Council canceled 
the debate because only Swamp 
Party had a full qualifying ticket, according to Alligator archives.
Last year, about 200 students 
attended the debate between Im-pact Party and Access Party in the University Auditorium, according to archives.
Previously, the Freshman Lead-
ership Council helped organize de-bates, Hobbs said. I
In Summer, Senate changed 
the 700 codes so the supervisor of elections hosts the debate, to en-sure it was nonpartisan.
“It’s unfortunate that we have 
to cancel it,” he said. “It just doesn’t make sense to have it.” 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSG debate canceled; 
one party runningKlarizza Aggabao / Alligator
Anh Le, 24, a UF pharmacy graduate student, drinks a new Split-Cup boba milk tea with 
her friend Peter Duong, 23, a UF information systems and operations management graduate student. Le tried the jasmine and hazelnut Split-Cup, while Duong tried a matcha with boba and 1988 milk tea Split Cup.
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
“Rather than it being the end, 
the outrage over her nomination for 
the position could be a good moti-vation for people to view education and education policy,” she said. 
DeVos can make calls on federal 
funding for schools, but state and local governments make impor-tant decisions that directly affect schools, Schroeder said. Now it’s time to pay attention to the local school boards and policies. 
Ali Unger-Fink, a Gainesville 
elementary school intern and UF education ProTeach master’s stu-dent, had just walked home a group 
of ﬁ  fth-grade students when she heard the news.
“I was very hopeful that it 
would not happen,” the 22-year-old 
said. “I can’t say I’m completely surprised.”
Unger-Fink said she was hoping 
a Republican senator would vote against DeVos at the last minute. 
She said she was concerned De-
Vos couldn’t answer simple ques-tions about education during her conﬁ  rmation hearing Jan. 17, like the difference between growth and proﬁ  ciency.
“It was just upsetting that she 
was very unfamiliar with the major education reforms and concepts,” she said. “There were a lot of things that she said that were disturbing.”
Even though she’s disappointed, she said she plans to research ex-actly how DeVos could affect public schools to prepare herself. 
“I’m going to keep doing what 
I’m doing, and that’s putting the kids ﬁ  rst,” she said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
DEVOS,  from pg.1UF education students petitioned Sen. Rubio to oppose DeVosBy Brianna Ellis 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents will soon 
be able to learn the art of beekeep-
ing.
Starting Feb. 18, the Alachua 
County Extension Ofﬁ  ce, in col-
laboration with the Florida Depart-ment of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the UF Bee Unit and Mas-ter Beekeepers, is hosting a six-part series on beekeeping until Nov. 18. The ﬁ  rst class will cost $10, and the following classes will cost $5. Each 
session will host between 35 to 45 
people.
The classes will teach every-thing from colony management to gardening and its effects on bees. They aim to increase public under-standing about current research, said community horticulture agent Tatiana Sanchez, who helps collect 
information about horticulture for 
Alachua County residents.
“(The classes) serve as a tool that is available for everybody and allows people to make informed decisions on particular areas of in-terest,” Sanchez said.
Emily Helton, the assistant ex-
tension coordinator of UF’s Honey Bee Research and Extension Lab, 
said the Extension Ofﬁ  ce is offering 
up labs for the beekeeping series.
“We reach out, create events 
and programs for people to work through to help them learn and understand that world of honey bees,” Helton said.
The series will allow honey bee 
enthusiasts to learn and work with their hives year-round, Sanchez said. In past years, introductory beekeeping classes were always highly attended. 
“Beekeeping seems to always 
be a topic of interest in many coun-ties, and Alachua is not the excep-tion,” she said. 
 Introductory beekeeping classes to start next week
innovative idea that we can 
help make the fan experience great,” Longworth said.
Longworth said she planned 
the display at UF for about two years after seeing similar pro-jections at Tampa Bay Light-
ning hockey playoffs and At-
lanta Hawks basketball games. In November, she presented the idea to the UAA’s Innova-tion Committee and received 
the more than $20,000 grant for the project.
She worked with the cre-
ative team from the company, 
ON Event Services, to plan the projection. Longworth said she wanted to have a display 
unique to UF that featured ga-
tors and voiceovers from the national championships. 
“Opening the court up, hav-
ing the swamp there and hav-
ing the gators kind of swim-
ming around, it’s just very unique to us,” Longworth said. “There’s no other university 
that can do that.”The feedback from the dis-
play has been positive, Long-worth said. Other schools have 
started calling the UAA to ask how it put on the show.
“It was really, really loud in 
there on Saturday,” Longworth said. “We’ve had some other games that it’s deﬁ  nitely been that loud, but it kind of set the tone for pregame, and in the 
end, our team came out and 
they played really well.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
PROJECTOR,  from pg.1The projection cost more than $20,000
Courtesy to the Alligator
A 3-D court projection debuted before tipoff at Saturday’s UF basketball 
game against the University of Kentucky. The projection cost more than $20,000 for the one-time use.
The irst class, Feb. 18, will cost $10WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
mouth,” Byrd told the crowd.
She said knowing the his-
tory behind the word and its 
immersion into past and cur-
rent pop-culture makes her wonder if anyone should be justified in using it.
“Yeah, it’s complicated,” 
she said.
Dashari Kearse, a 22-year-
old UF anthropology and lin-guistics senior, said the word 
may leave a nasty taste in the 
user’s mouth, but it doesn’t mean people, himself includ-ed, will stop using it.
“The word can mean dif-
ferent things in the same sen-tence,” Kearse said. “I ain’t telling you how to say it, but proceed with caution.”
Those around him agreed. 
But the lines become blurred when someone of a different race utters the N-word.“Yeah, we use it, but 
we don’t like it at the same 
time,” he said.
Chris Kessling, a 25-year-
old UF alumnus, sat in the 
middle of the crowd. Even though he sat quietly, his 
pale skin, blue-green eyes 
and dirty blonde hair made his presence known.
“Not being African-Amer-
ican, the more I can learn the better,” he said.
Kessling works with stu-
dents as a staff member with Cru, an on-campus Christian organization. He said his goal to connect with students on 
a spiritual level drove him to 
learn about the history and culture of the N-word.“It’s super helpful know-
ing where the word comes 
from and answering the 
question, ‘Should it be used or should it not?’ even in the black community.”
Byrd, who will be leav-
ing UF after four years next week, said she felt the dis-cussion was a good way to 
end her time working with 
African-American students at the university.
“It’s a way of reframing 
conversations and getting our campus community to start looking at things differ-ently, too,” she said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org WORD,  from pg.1About 50 mostly black students 
attended the event TuesdayBy Isa Perez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Hannah Marjon was tired of buy-
ing overpriced swimsuits that didn’t fit, 
so she decided to create her own, “Bay-watch” style.
The 20-year-old UF public relations 
sophomore said she created her own swimwear line, called “Sevenswim,” for others who couldn’t find affordable swim-suits. 
The line will be available online at sev-
enswimwear.com on April 7. 
“My swimwear line is tailored to bring-
ing ‘Baywatch’ back,” said Marjon, who grew up near the ocean in Fort Myers, 
Florida. “To me, the cuts above the hips 
and the overall skimpy design compli-ments a woman’s figure of any shape or size.”
Marjon will be offering her first collec-tion of black-and-white bikinis, with one one-piece design, for $40 to $60 a piece.
She said she’ll target Florida college 
students as she begins selling the suits, 
but she eventually wants to become an in-
ternationally known brand. 
“I know I’ve made it when I can debut 
my line at Miami Swim Week or when a major celebrity starts wearing my suits,” Marjon said. 
Kayla Rodriguez, a 20-year-old UF psy-
chology junior, said she likes that a stu-dent her age is starting their own brand.
Like Marjon, Rodriguez struggles with 
finding a flattering, affordable swimsuit for her curvy figure.
“It’s always a mission to find the per-
fect minimal-coverage swimsuit that both doesn’t squeeze and doesn’t look like (a) diaper,” Rodriguez said. “If this swim-wear line can offer comfort and style, I’m all for it.”UF student starts swimsuit 
line inspired by ‘Baywatch’
IT WILL BE AWARDED OVER 
FOUR YEARS.
By Darcy Schild
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art re-
ceived a $282,000 grant to help the museum 
continue publishing Asian art manuscripts.
The national Henry Luce Foundation 
awarded the grant to the museum in Novem-
ber, said Tami Wroath, the museum’s director 
of marketing and public relations. 
The grant will fund the David A. Cofrin 
Asian Art Manuscript Series, which publishes books about Asian art. The Harn was one of seven museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Guggenheim Mu-seum, to receive money for its Asian cultural program. The grant will be awarded to the museum over a four-year period, she said. 
In addition to the manuscript program, 
a central component of the Harn’s Asian art exhibition is the David A. Cofrin Asian Art Wing, which was added in March 2012, 
Wroath said.
“With the five-year anniversary of the Da-
vid A. Cofrin Asian Art Wing upon us, we are 
thrilled to be able to continue to provide and share research on our Asian collections held and exhibited in this wing,” she said.
Gabriella Crespo, a UF art history and busi-
ness administration sophomore, said she fell in love with the Harn when she visited UF in 
high school.
Crespo, a former student intern with the 
Harn, said she respects the diversity of the 
museum’s Asian art exhibit.
“Asia encompasses so much,” the 19-year-
old said. “They display the entire culture, not just mainstreams of each culture.” UF’s Harn Museum awarded
$282,000 grant for Asian art 
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was arrested Monday after 
stealing and pawning at least nine lap-
tops from his place of work since No-
vember, Gainesville Police said.
Jimmy Bryan Rousseau, 28, who 
works at the business development com-
pany Mobiquity, was suspected of theft 
by the store’s manager when the man-
ager noticed three laptops went missing from the store Friday, according to a po-lice report.
The store is located near downtown 
at 606 SW Fourth Ave. Police said Rous-seau had access to the laptops, three of have a total value of about $4,500.
Police discovered Rousseau pawned 
one of the laptops, an Apple MacBook, for $600 at TBG Jewelry and Pawn in January, according to the report. He re-turned to the pawn shop a week later and pawned two other Apple MacBooks 
for $1,400. Rousseau pawned at least six 
others, but the total value of the stolen products remains unknown.
He told the pawn shop he owned the 
laptops, according to the report. Police are still unsure if Rousseau stole any-thing else from the store.
Police arrested 
Rousseau on charges 
of grand theft, deal-
ing in stolen property and false information on a pawn transaction 
form. Authorities took 
him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he 
was released Tuesday on his own recog-nizance.
This is the first time Rousseau has 
faced a felony charge in Alachua Coun-ty, according to court records.
Calls made to Mobiquity and Rous-
seau were not returned as of press time.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: Man steals, pawns 
nine laptops from work By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
When a student told Lauren 
Marlowe she felt alone, the eighth-
grade English teacher saw herself. 
Marlowe, 35, went home that 
night and found a fictional charac-
ter the student could relate to — 
Jane Eyre. She brought back her only torn and tattered copy of the book and gave it to the Oak View Middle School student.
“I’d like to introduce you to one 
of my closest friends,” she wrote in the book.
For the strides she has taken to 
make connections with her roughly 130 students spanning six class pe-riods, Marlowe was honored Thurs-day as Alachua County’s Teacher of 
the Year.
“It’s a little surreal,” she said. 
“I’m still kind of astonished that it 
happened.”
The other two finalists for the 
award were Susan Surrency from 
Lawton M. Chiles Elementary 
School and Amy MacCord from Hawthorne Middle/High School.
Jackie Johnson, a spokesperson 
for Alachua County Public Schools, said Marlowe was nominated by her fellow teachers at Oak View, and then selected by a 39-person committee made up of past win-ners.
“If you listen to her students, 
she is very deserving of that recog-
nition,” Johnson said.
Marlowe said 
her secret to 
connecting with her students is 
books.
“Reading has 
always been a great escape for me,” she said. “In those awk-
ward teenage years, you can always count on a book to be your friend.”
Three years ago, she started a 
peer tutoring program to help stu-dents who may be struggling. She also serves as the language arts de-partment chair and an adviser to the 
art club and student government.
Marlowe, a native of Chiefland, 
Florida, said she always wanted to 
be a teacher.
“I’ve never wanted to do any-
thing else,” she said. “I loved school 
so much I just figured I would stay.”
After graduating from Gainesville 
High School, Marlowe graduated 
from UF in 2004 with a Bachelor of Arts in English and again in 2005 with a master’s in education.
After graduating, she worked at 
Kanapaha Middle School for five years before joining Oak View in 2013.
Naturally, she married a teach-
er. Her husband, Jordan Marlowe, teaches English and history at Newberry High School. They have a 5-year-old son and 6-year-old daughter.
Barbara Brock, 48, an eighth-
grade science teacher at Oak View, said Marlowe empowers students. 
“She encourages them to be 
themselves and appreciate who 
they are,” Brock said. “I think that’s 
why she got that award.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
Oak View Middle School teacher honored as county’s best
Rousseau
Marlowe
“The word can mean different things in the same 
sentence. I ain’t telling you how to say it, but proceed 
with caution”
Dashari Kearse
UF anthropology and linguistics seniorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORThe notion of freedom is not what we think it is
Who has watched a cellphone com-
mercial that advertised limited tex-ting and data? Who has been upset at Chick-ﬁ  l-A for not being open on Sundays or Chipotle for not be-
ing open all night? If Netﬂ  ix or Hulu had a time limit — you could only watch a certain number of shows per week — would people subscribe? Would there be protests if Amazon imposed a delivery ban past a certain time or if you ordered multiple packages within a month’s period? Or if buffets and “have it your way” food services became extinct? What if the internet shut off globally at 10 p.m. every night, what then? How would we respond?
I wonder if many people would want to live in such a 
world, where limits and ﬁ  xities are voluntarily and cheer-ily submitted to. The notion of the unlimited is a bedrock of today’s culture, it seems. Take advertising and commer-cials: An appeal is never made to sell a product that inhibits our consumptive freedoms, but an appeal is always made to instead broaden our consumptive horizons. Apple does not make ﬂ  ip phones anymore; instead, it seeks to grow the cellphone’s capacity for limitless and high-quality entertain-ment.
In short, our culture is one of choices and possibilities. 
Do I buy shoes at Foot Locker, Payless, Champs, etc.; food from McDonald’s, Burger King, Chick-ﬁ  l-A, Taco Bell, etc; do I shop at Sears, Dillard’s, Macy’s, Target, Wal-Mart, etc? This is what our culture says is freedom: the capacity to determine one’s own life without restrictions. We offer un-limited data, streaming, culinary possibilities and consump-tive power, because freedom today means the absence of constraints or limits. We see the individual’s capacity for self-determination of what he or she prefers in life as the highest good, and we chop down any sort of restriction that gets in the way.
But does freedom really mean the uninhibited capacity to determine one’s preferences in a culture that seeks to provide endless preferences to choose from? I think this runs counter to the very no-tion of freedom and, maybe more profoundly, to nature and reality. What about the young and promising pianist who could be out with his friends but is instead chained to his piano, learning Debussy? Certainly some days feel like prison to the boy, and the ivory keys are the last thing he wishes to see that day. But maybe some days are strangely and inexplicably joyous and pure, when he discovers something deep about 
the nature of music, himself and the cosmos. Those days feel like a breeze. Would our culture consider this boy truly free?
My point is this: At the heart of freedom is sacriﬁ  ce, 
which entails the submission of the individual to a principle, person or craft, and so on, which he deems more important than himself. The young pianist forsook the countless hours of leisure and play a boy has in his life and dedicated him-self to his music. And now, because of that sacriﬁ  ce, he can perform, create real beauty and engage himself and others in the deepest parts of the soul, like only truly good music can. Through the sometimes painful and other times cheer-ful acceptance of a limit on his life — the piano — the young boy achieves in turn an incomparable freedom that only a few can claim as their own. And this theme applies to all of life: an old man who diets to stay healthy for his grandkids, a boyfriend who gives up time with his friends to be with his girlfriend, a student who stays in the library an extra hour. 
The common underlying theme in these situations is not 
our culture’s notion of limitless freedom to determine what one prefers in life, but sacriﬁ  ce to a higher and more impor-tant good than one’s self. That is true freedom.
Scott Stinson is a UF English sophomore. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Navigating the 
realm of political 
memes
In this day and age of fast and constant information, news 
and important facts tend to get diluted. After all, most people turn to Facebook for news, scrolling through their feed and clicking on whatever bit of news interests them. Of course, there are positives to this new way of getting 
information. News travels a lot faster and is more accessible. People can do research on almost any topic by just sliding open their phone and pull up the internet. This information can be accessed at one’s own pace, convenience and frequen-cy.
But this overload of information does come at a cost.How often have you seen very serious claims plastered on 
a funny picture and shared by “ofﬁ  cial” Facebook pages? How many times during this election cycle, during this past week 
even, did you see news in the form of a meme?
We have nothing against memes. For the most part, we 
like to think the majority of society has a pretty good grasp of 
what’s a joke and what they are actually basing their political opinions and views on. But there’s a good share of the popu-lation out there — on both sides of the political spectrum, mind you — that must think just because there are words on an image on the internet, it must be true.
This isn’t a problem exclusive to the younger generation 
who grew up with the internet. This is a problem older people suffer from, too. 
Some will argue that news in meme form is useful. You can 
get a lot of information across in a single image. It’s easy to spread, market and make people quickly aware of a problem.
The issue is that for a lot of people, this is enough. They 
don’t question it. They don’t do any further research. They see a captivating image on the screen that could say some-thing as outlandish as “President Donald Trump bans all im-
migrants” or “Hollywood hates America” or “Rosemary in-
creases memory by 75 percent” and immediately accept it or reject it, depending on whether it aligns with their current belief system. This isn’t constructive or informative. No one was ever convinced to change their beliefs based on a meme — if anything, it further polarizes each side. 
The fact is the world is more complex than simple text on 
images. 
No argument can be watered down to one sentence. There 
are nuances. There are complexities. There are exceptions. We need to read, watch the news and do our own research.  
Before you look at a political meme someone has shared 
and decide to accept its information, look it up. Is it really true? Or is that slightly sketchy page that shared it just mak-ing things up for likes? Contrary to what some might argue, credible news sources don’t make things up. It’s the pages designed solely to get clicks and likes that skew headlines. If it’s inﬂ  ammatory and sounds simple, then hey, people will 
click on it and share it. 
If you are going to share a political meme, write a re-
searched post to go along with it or share a relevant article 
from a credible source. Memes can be good things. They are eye-catching after all. Just make sure the information you are conveying is factual.
At the end of the day, think about what information you 
are accepting and what you are giving out. And make sure it’s correct.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORFUN AND FITNESS   •   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
By Natalie Rella
MPH, CPH; Health Promotion Specialist 
Incorporating physical activity into 
your day can be a healthy habit that ben -
efits every aspect of your life including 
stress and anxiety, mood, energy, weight 
management, and sleep.  According to the 
2016 Healthy Gators survey 78% of UF 
students responded that they do not get 
the recommended amount of moderate 
exercise (30 minutes, 5-7 days per week). 
In the same survey students ranked 
“stress/anxiety” and “overweight/obesi -
ty/weight management” as their top two 
health concern.  Sound relatable?  
The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention recommends adults should 
do at least 2 hours and 30 minutes each 
week of moderate-intensity aerobic phys -
ical activity or 1 hour and 15 minutes of 
vigorous-intensity aerobic activity per 
week. Additionally, muscle training 2 
or more days a week is recommended. 
You’ll know if you are working at a mod -
erate level if you are able to talk while 
participating in these activities, but not 
sing. You know you are doing vigorous 
aerobic activity when you are breathing 
hard and unable to say more than a few 
words without taking a breath.You don’t have to leave your house 
• Use technology. Try online fitness 
videos, or fitness DVDs. 
• Get up during commercials and 
study breaks and do some jump-
jacks, sit-ups, or push-ups.  
Change your daily routines
• Park at the end of the parking lot on 
your errands.  
• Take the stairs instead of the eleva -
tor.
• Chores count too- vacuum, dust, 
mop, scrub, they all get you mov -
ing.
• Bike to campus and to classes.
• Walk to that next class rather than 
taking the bus.
• Use a phone app to track your 
steps…every step counts!
Get Social
• Get an exercise buddy that will keep 
you motivated.  
• Go to a group fitness class and hit 
the gym at RecSports
• Grab a couple friends and take a trip out to Lake Wauberg: canoe -
ing, ropes course, climbing, disc 
golf, mountain biking, sailing, wa -
ter sports!  
• Join an intermural team, club team 
or physical activity-related student 
organization.  
Try New Things
• UF Rec Sports has multiple options 
for all sorts of fitness activities-
check out they’re website! 
• The Gainesville Rock Gym offers a 
fun rock climbing experience.  
• If you’re up for a little adventure, 
the Lake Alice walking/biking path, 
Paynes Prairie State Preserve, Morn -
ingside Trails, and/or San Felasco 
Hammock Preserve are fun options 
to experience nature while getting 
in some physical activity.  
Other Tips
• Gradually build new activities or 
longer time spent exercising into 
your routine.  
• Feel proud of your accomplishments and celebrate your successes!  Use 
an app to keep track.
• Keep at it! Try new things until you 
find an activity that is both chal -
lenging and fun.  The more you in -
corporate physical activity into your 
daily routine, the more you will 
start to feel the benefits of it. Get a 
friend, set up a couple times you’re 
available during the week, and get 
moving!  
Safety Note
• When exercising after dark, alway 
do so with a friend and a flashing 
light.
• Pick one up for free at GatorWell!
 
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion ServicesGET UP TO GET DOWN WITH FITNESS
TIPS FOR INCREASING YOUR PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   •   FUN AND FITNESS
By Natalie Rella
MPH, CPH; Health Promotion Specialist 
With Spring Break just around 
the corner, you may be feeling an 
unpleasant pressure, in your own 
mind and from others, to have the 
perfect beach body. You are not 
alone in this. UF students across 
campus are experiencing the bur -
den of negative body image. In the 
2016 Healthy Gators survey of UF 
students, 30% of women and 15% 
men said feeling fat frequently 
interferes with enjoying every -
day life, 21% of students worried 
about losing control over how 
much they eat, 16% said that food 
dominates their life and 12% said 
they feel fat when others tell them 
they are too thin. 
So, what exactly is body image? 
According to the National Eating 
Disorder Association, body image 
is how you view yourself in your 
mind or what you see when you look in the mirror. A person with a 
negative body image perception is 
dissatisfied with their body. They 
have a somewhat distorted view 
of their body. Apart from having 
an impact on everyday quality of 
life, negative body image percep -
tion is the best known contributor 
to the development of an eating 
disorder-a potentially fatal condi -
tion.
So, what’s a Gator to do? 
• Inspire others by being confi -
dent in who you are. 
• Recognize that your body is 
not an ornament for others’ 
pleasure/amusement, but a 
vehicle to reaching your life 
goals and aspirations. 
• Appreciate that people come 
in all shapes and sizes.
• Challenge unrealistic images 
and messages by engaging in 
discussions about how body 
types are portreyed in the me -dia.
• Understand that bodies can be 
healthy in many sizes; being a 
certain weight does not deter -
mine whether you’re healthy.
Celebrate EveryBODY 
In honor of National Eating Dis -
order Awareness Week (February 
26- March 4), GatorWell Health 
Promotion Services is hosting the 
Celebrate EveryBODY event series 
in an effort to positively impact 
the culture of body acceptance at 
the University of Florida.
• Mirrorless Monday, February 
27th, all day in participating 
buildings on campus
• BeYOUtiful Health and Well -
ness Fair, Tuesday February 
27th, 11am-2pm at the North 
Lawn of the Reitz Union
• EveryBODY Can Move, Thurs -
day February 28th, 11am-2pm 
at the the North Lawn of the 
Reitz UnionTIPS FOR IMPROVING 
TIME MANAGEMENT 
AND INCREASING 
PRODUCTIVITY
By Sara Ryals
MS, CHES; Health Promotion 
Specialist at GatorWell Health 
Promotion Services
Learning how to manage 
your time effectively helps 
increase productivity and re -
duce procrastination, which 
in turn reduces stress and im -
proves academic success. Try 
these 7 quick tips to improve 
your time management:
1. Assess how you are cur -
rently using your time. For 2-3 
days, keep a time log of what 
you do during the day and 
how long you spend doing it. 
2. Know what’s impor -
tant! Prioritize your daily and 
weekly tasks. Then, organize 
your time according to your 
priorities. You should make 
time for your highest priorities 
first!
3. Make time to manage 
time, ahead of time. Planning 
ahead sets you up for success!  
Set aside consistent time in 
your daily and/or weekly 
schedule for organization and 
planning. There are a wide 
variety of tools that can be 
used to help with this includ -
ing planners, desk/wall calen -
dars, online calendars, apps, 
and “to do” lists. 
4. Identify what your com -
mon distractors and time 
wasters are. Then, brainstorm strategies to minimize these 
where possible. 
5. Learn to say NO! Some -
times it feels like you do not 
have enough time in the day 
to get everything done be -
cause… YOU DON’T. Identify 
current tasks that are not pri -
orities and decrease them or 
cut them out completely. 
6. Make time for self-care! 
Living a balanced life is im -
portant to your overall well -
being. Schedule time to take 
care of yourself and manage 
your stress. Take breaks while 
studying, make time for physi -
cal activity and healthy eat -
ing, relax at the end of a long 
day, and get plenty of sleep.  
Taking care of yourself will 
increase your energy, focus, 
and overall health, which in 
turn will help you be more 
productive when you sit down 
to study.  
7. Ask for help! Feeling 
overwhelmed and not sure 
where to start? Reaching out 
to a friend, family member, 
mentor, or campus profes -
sional for help with time man -
agement can be a great place 
to start. Ready to make a 
change? Make an appointment 
today with a Wellness Coach 
at GatorWell to discuss time 
management!
For more information 
about time management or 
to learn how to schedule an 
appointment with a Wellness 
Coach, visit GatorWell’s web -
site: gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu.
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion ServicesBEYOND THE BEACH BODY MANAGE YOUR TIME
FUN AND FITNESS   •   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
“I’VE BEEN RUNNING IN 
THE INDEPENDENT FLORIDA ALLIGATOR SINCE I OPENED IN 2006. IT’S LOCAL AND A GOOD PLACE TO ADVERTISE. WE GET GOOD RESULTS BECAUSE THE STUDENTS FOLLOW IT ON A DAILY BASIS.”
- B.J. WEBSTER
Downtown Barber Shop
15 West University Avenue 
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTEBy Lauren Perez-Maiy
GatorWell Marketing and
Communications Assistant
The college life can be a tough 
one. From your packed schedule 
of courses to demanding work 
schedules, group projects, essays 
and exams, each day may feel like 
an impossible load on your shoul -
ders. Nonetheless, all of this can 
be tackled, even conquered, when 
ensuring you get a good night’s 
rest (7-9 hours of quality sleep; 
this varies for each person) every 
night. 
Sleep is vitally important for 
your health and academic suc -
cess. When sleeping, your body 
and cells are recovering from a 
hard day’s work and your brain is 
cementing new memories, while 
your immune system is recharg -
ing. We feel more alert, energetic, 
focused and better able to function 
following a good night of sleep. 
Here are some recommenda -
tions to help you get those much-
needed Zzz’s every day! 
1. Avoid drinking caffeine (6 
hours) and using tobacco (2 to 3 
hours) before going to bed
Because caffeine is a natural 
stimulant, experts suggest avoid -
ing caffeine 6 hours before your 
set bedtime to help you fall asleep. 
Likewise, Nicotine is a stimulant that can keep you from falling 
asleep. For regular smokers, with -
drawal symptoms may occur dur -
ing the night, which can disturb 
one’s sleep. 
2. Exercise 2-3 times a week
According to the National Sleep 
Foundation, “AM cardio may 
mean more deep sleep,” and the 
best times to get your workout in are the mornings and afternoons. 
It is better not to exercise right be -
fore bed, because you will feel ac -
tive and stimulated when it is time 
to wind down.
3. Create your own soothing 
night-time routine
The hour before you fall asleep 
is your time to power down. You 
can do so by turning off or silenc -ing your technology (laptops, 
smart phones and tablets), mini -
mizing distracting noises (using 
earplugs if needed) reading or 
book or magazine, taking a bath, 
drinking a warm cup of tea, lis -
tening to relaxing music or white 
noise and meditating. You can 
also use a bit of this time to work 
on planning what needs to be ac -
complished tomorrow, so you go to bed feeling more prepared and 
less anxious. 
4. Use your bed exclusively for 
sleep and sexual activity 
You want to think of your bed 
as a place for rest and intimacy, 
not studying, talking on the phone 
and eating in bed. This will help 
you focus on your sleep when get -
ting in bed, and everything else 
should settle down in your mind.
5. Set a regular time to go to 
sleep and wake up, then stick to it
Forming inconsistent sleep pat -
terns can lead to lower grades, 
decreased memory and attention 
span, frequent mood swings, and 
in some cases, increase feelings of 
anger and depression. When you 
make it a habit to wake up and fall 
asleep at consistent times, your 
body will thank you.
Need help applying these tips? 
Make an appointment with a Ga -
torWell Wellness Coach by visit -
ing the Individual Services tab on 
our website or calling (352) 273-
4450. Wellness Coaches are here 
to be UF students’ personal cheer -
leaders for overall wellness and 
academic success. 
For more information on these 
sleep strategies, visit http://ga -
torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/health_topic/
sleep. 
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion Services5 QUICK TIPS FOR SUCCESSFUL SNOOZING
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   •   FUN AND FITNESS
By Marie McGrath
STRIVE Lead Peer Educator
In our social spheres, there is 
often a preoccupation with rela -
tionship status. Are you seeing 
someone? In an open relation -
ship? It’s complicated? Long-term 
and serious? However, the more 
important questions are about the 
status of that relationship. Is it a 
good relationship? Is it a healthy 
relationship? What defines a 
healthy relationship? Who decides 
what is healthy and what is not?
A healthy relationship is one in 
which all partners feel supported 
and connected to one another 
while still retaining their own 
independence. To build a rela -
tionship like this, you need three 
key ingredients: communication, 
boundaries and consent. 
Communication 
• In a healthy relationship 
with good communication, 
partners can speak freely to 
one another about thoughts, 
feelings, concerns, and what 
they are or are not comfort -
able with. Partners feel heard 
when expressing feelings or 
thoughts, and they celebrate 
each other’s success.
Boundaries 
• Rules or guidelines that peo -
ple create to make sure that 
they feel comfortable and 
safe in their relationship. 
These can apply to sex life, 
finances, family and friends, 
personal space, and time, 
among many others.
• Boundaries will look different 
in every relationship, and you 
should be sure to communi -
cate about your boundaries to 
your partner.
Consent 
• The permission to do some -thing. If your partner freely 
says yes to something, they 
are consenting to that thing. 
Consent does not have to be 
sexual in nature, but sexual 
consent is one of the most im -
portant aspects of a healthy 
relationship, and often one of 
the least understood. Additional Information
For more information about 
healthy relationships and con -
sent, visit STRIVE’s website at 
gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive and 
request one of our presentations 
for your group or class.  By Samantha Evans
MS, CHES; Health Promotion 
Specialist at GatorWell Health 
Promotion Services
Accidents can happen:  
Condoms can break because 
they are past the expiration 
date, stored improperly, or 
used incorrectly, especially 
in the heat of the moment. If 
you’re worried that a condom 
may break, you may want to 
keep the following points in 
mind.  
Condoms, and other bar -
rier methods, should never 
be stored in a wallet, car, or 
direct sunlight because heat, 
even body heat, weakens the 
product’s material over time. 
Oil-based lubricants cause con -
doms (both the ‘roll-on’ and 
‘insertable’ ones) to break. 
Instead choose a water or 
silicone-based lube (KY, As -
troglide, Wet, etc) which is 
safe for use with condoms by 
helping to prevent breakage by 
reducing friction, and can be 
used with other barrier meth -
ods, as well. Never use two 
‘roll-on’ condoms at once, or 
a ‘roll-on’ and ‘insertable’ con -
dom together, because the fric -
tion can cause both condoms 
to break. When using a con -
dom, first check the expiration 
date and squeeze the condom 
package to ensure it still has an 
air bubble (if it does not, the 
package and condom may be 
punctured). Open the package 
carefully (no teeth, nails, or 
scissors). For a ‘roll-on’ con -
doms, pinch the tip of the con -
dom to leave space for ejacula -
tion and unroll the condom all 
the way down. After sex, hold 
the base of the ‘roll-on’ con -
dom before withdrawing. 
If you or your partner ever 
find yourself in a situation where a condom does break 
there are a few things to con -
sider.  If pregnancy prevention 
is a concern, consider follow -
ing your condom breaking inci -
dent with Plan B. Also known 
as emergency contraception, 
or EC, the high-dose birth con -
trol pill is available over-the-
counter and can prevent preg -
nancy if taken within 72 hours. 
Plan B is most effective when 
within 24 hours. Women and 
men over 17 years of age can 
call a doctor, a health clinic, 
a pharmacy, or place an over -
night order from Drugstore.
com without a prescription.
If sexually transmitted in -
fections (STI) prevention is a 
concern, there are some things 
to consider. There are different 
‘window periods’, or time it 
takes for the STI to be detected 
in a persons’ system, so the 
timing of testing is important.  
When it does come time to 
test, there are some reasonably 
priced or even free options to 
consider on campus or in the 
Gainesville community. Free 
confidential HIV testing for UF 
students is available on cam -
pus at the GatorWell main of -
fice by appointment only. HIV 
testing, as well as other STI 
testing, is also available at the 
Student Health Care Center, 
Planned Parenthood of North 
Florida and at the Alachua 
County Health Department. 
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion ServicesHEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS ALWAYS BE PREPARED
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. $375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
2-8-17-20-2
HOUSE - 3BR/2BA, w/ fireplace off SW 13th 
St, near IHOP restaurant. 3627 SW 13th St. Big front yard, fenced backyard, close to Vet School, UF & downtown. $950/mo. Call or text 352-2327-2931, email: nghe@msn.com    2-10-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-10-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Good Times Outdoors, Inc. is seeking an
individual for promoting our brands on a
variety of Social media sites and forums.
The position is negotiable as to time
spent onsite and time spent remotely.
The successful candidate will have
experience and knowledge in social media
marketing, a knowledge of outdoor sports, 
boating, hunting and firearms is preferable. 
Interested parties may contact by email at:
doug@core15.com
2-8-17-6-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
***PROMOTERS WANTED***
Seeking health conscious entrepreneurs to 
build an at-home business and sales team 
in a global health and wellness company.
*Must be ready to start now!
*Money Motivated
*Willing to learn
No experience required,
full training provided, flexible hours.
Call 815-557-3209 serious inquiries only.
2-9-5-14Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
22 Tickets
2 Joe Bonamassa concert tix
Feb 22 Fla Theater Jax. Cost $252, sell for $200. 352-481-2841     2-9-3-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Saturday Feb 4th noonEARTH FARE PARKING LOT
Small Black Notebook Journal
with personal writing call Tom or Mary 952 474 6495 REWARD NO QUESTIONS     2-8-2-25
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACROSS
1 Blowout victory
5 Airline mentioned
in the first line ofthe Beatles’
“Back in the
U.S.S.R.”
9 Taj Mahal city
13 Old Renault14 Cold, in Cádiz15 Mark as
important
16 Like most triangle
angles
17 World-class19 Glass
manufacturingdioxide
21 Bk. read at Purim22 Sports doc’s
scan
23 Mantilla material25 Univ. dorm
overseers
26 “__ the fields we
go ... ”
27 Codebreaking
org.
28 Dream up30 One inch = one
foot, e.g.
32 Seals, as a deal33 Program
interruptionsliterallydemonstrated bythis puzzle’s foursets of circles
38 Not quite place39 California’s San
__ Zoo
40 Rubs elbows
(with)
44 Kids’ recess
game
45 Time of yr. for
new growth
48 She raised Cain49 It may be shaped
on a wheel
52 Legal thing53 Thickening agent54 African desert55 Sacred lily of
ancient Egypt
58 Allow to pass
59 Architect
Saarinen
60 Composer who
was a CBSreporter61 Bay and gray
followers
62 Uno y dos
63 Concerning64 Spoon’s escape
partner
DOWN
1 Means to an end2 Pertaining to the
eye
3 Marseille morning4 Police unit
5 Fave texting bud
6 Projecting
window
7 Respiratory
cavity
8 Bulk-purchase
club
9 Kilimanjaro’s
cont.
10 Genre that
influenced Prince
11 Hectic lifestyles12 Biased targets of
the Gray
Panthers
13 Rodeo need
18 In that case20 Extremely,
musically
24 Angelic ring29 “Later!”
30 Like logs
31 Bitter __33 Snow remover34 Without a doubt
35 Tasting menu
portion
36 Brings up
37 Sandwich filling
for a lacto-ovovegetarian
38 Frozen dessert41 Play-of-color gem42 South American
capital
43 Australian sextet45 Lists of nominees46 Persona non grata
47 “__ Hope”: ’70s-
’80s soap
50 Have faith
51 French darling
56 Dawn goddess57 HBO competitor
By Peg Slay©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/08/1702/08/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 8, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Serbia?
2. TELEVISION: Who played Mon-
ica’s boyfriend Richard on “Friends”?
3. NATURAL WORLD: What is the 
common name of Euphorbia pulcher -
rima, which blooms during the holi-
days?
4. BIBLE: What is the third book of 
the Old Testament?
5. GAMES: What is the shape of the 
answer grid inside a “Magic 8 Ball,” a hand-held game that gives stock 
answers to questions? 
6. AD SLOGANS: Which car rental 
company had the slogan “We try hard-er”?
7. LITERATURE: Who was the 
author of the 1954 novel “The Adven-tures of Augie March”?
8. COMICS: What is the name of 
Dagwood and Blondie’s dog?
9. MYTHOLOGY: What was the 
name of the monstrous hound that guards the gates of Hades?
10. ANATOMY: What is the menis-
cus disc in the knee made of?
Answers
1. Belgrade2. Tom Selleck3. Poinsettia4. Leviticus5. An icosahedron, a 20-sided figure
6. Avis
7. Saul Bellow8. Daisy9. Cerberus10. Cartilage
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 6, 2017 King Features Weekly Service15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Swimming coach Gregg Troy 
is leading two very different teams, but both are hoping to ﬁ  nd success. Read the story, pg. 16UF men's basketball tied for conference lead
With its win over Georgia on Tuesday and South Carolina's loss to Alabama, 
the UF men's basketball team is now in a three-way tie for ﬁ  rst in the SEC with South Carolina and Kentucky. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With just over a minute left in the game, 
Chris Chiozza stood behind the three-point 
line with the ball in his hands. He gently rocked the ball back and forth, lulling his defender to sleep. 
Then, the junior guard let it ﬂ  y as Geor-
gia’s J.J. Frazier tried to close out.
Too late.The three-pointer silenced a raucous Stegeman Coliseum and put Florida’s lead out of reach as the No. 17 Gators (19-5, 9-2 SEC) defeated the Bulldogs 72-60 on Tues-
day night for their ﬁ  fth straight double-digit 
win. 
Chiozza led UF with 15 points on 6-for-
10 shooting and four rebounds to continue his recent hot streak, and senior forward Justin Leon added 10 points and seven boards.
“He’s playing with a lot of conﬁ  dence, 
and he’s making good decisions,” UF 
coach Mike White said of Chiozza. “He’s 
about winning.”
Florida played with aggression on both 
ends of the court to start the game. 
But after the Gators took a 30-14 lead 
more than halfway through the ﬁ  rst half, Georgia (13-11, 4-7 SEC) ﬁ  nally found the physicality that’s made it one of the SEC’s most dangerous teams. 
The Bulldogs forced 10 straight misses 
by UF and went on a 19-5 run to cut Flori-da’s lead to just two points before halftime. 
After a dominant performance on the 
glass against Kentucky, the Gators were outrebounded 24-19 in the opening frame and were held without a second-chance point (they had just two for the game).And despite holding Georgia to 33 percent 
from the ﬂ  oor, Florida had no answer for 
Bulldogs forward Yante Maten, who led all scorers with 19 points on 7-for-15 shooting.
“It was a game of swings and momen-
tum changes,” White said. “For us to re-group at halftime … (it) just shows what we’re capable of defensively.”
For much of the second half, UF had a 
difﬁ  cult time matching Georgia’s physical-
ity, failing to score during a three-minute 
stretch midway through the period. But a Chiozza-led 13-5 run late in the game sealed the win for Florida.
“They had chances to beat us,” White 
said. “All that said, I’m proud that our guys just continue to dig deep … in a game of this magnitude.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org No. 17 Florida handles Georgia on the road SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
Every year immediately after National Sign-
ing Day, the sports world witnesses one of its most dazzling spectacles: the great migration of college football coaches. 
This is when, after convincing fresh crops of 
18-year-olds to sign letters of intent with certain schools, 
coaches bolt for new, better, higher-paying jobs with 
no consequences. Meanwhile, the players they’ve hood-winked into signing with their former universities are stuck in place. 
It happened here at UF on Saturday when, three days 
removed from NSD, Florida defensive backs coach Tor-rian Gray bolted for the NFL’s Washington Redskins. Florida announced his replacement within hours, lead-ing to the belief that his departure was strategic. And 
his replacement, USF’s Corey Bell, had only been on 
Charlie Strong’s staff for about a month before he left for a brighter opportunity at Florida. 
But some players don’t care about such moves. 
Some will (wisely) say they committed to a school, not a coach. However, this is certainly not always the case. 
Take Florida junior CeCe Jefferson, for example. Two 
years ago on NSD, the ﬁ  ve-star prospect announced his decision to attend UF but mysteriously didn’t send in his letter of intent. 
Hours of speculation as to why followed, with Jef-
ferson ultimately tweeting the following: “I haven’t sent my LOI because someone told me a few days before NSD that williams was leaving,why send it in without being sure?”
He then reafﬁ  rmed his commitment to Florida, but 
the point he made was valid. 
Williams refers to Terrell Williams, the ﬁ  rst defen-
sive line coach hired by Jim McElwain when he came to Florida. As it turned out, Williams was indeed leav-ing for the Miami Dolphins as soon as NSD was over. He stayed until then only to entice folks like Jefferson to sign with Florida before leaving them. So while Jef-ferson did end up at Florida, it’s a great look that he 
thought about it after the slimy move pulled by Wil-
liams and the Florida coaching staff. 
And I’m not trying to knock Florida here because, 
again, this is common everywhere. It’s accepted prac-tice. And it’s disgusting. 
Actually, maybe a better word is ironic. Yes, it’s ironic that coaches who are paid six ﬁ  gures 
can just up and leave when they please for bigger six ﬁ  gures while the young athletes they ﬁ  nagle into sign-
ing are now bound to their respective universities for at 
least a year. 
Just imagine this situation for a normal, non-athlete 
person. 
It would be like if you got a new job after interview-
ing with a boss you really loved and then, as soon as  The cruel, 
cutthroat cult of 
college coaching 
UF POSTED A 197.425 IN ITS 
LOSS TO ALABAMA. 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Alabama junior Kiana Winston stepped 
onto the ﬂ  oor in front of a crowd of more than 14,000 in Tuscaloosa and delivered perfection.
As her score of 10 was announced, the 
crowd erupted mid-way through Alex Mc-Murtry’s beam routine.
The home crowd’s celebration could 
have distracted McMurtry.
It could have made her fall.But it didn’t.Instead, she delivered a 9.875 to close 
out a solid meet for the Gators.
“Competing at Alabama, it’s never 
easy,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “There was a perfect 10 thrown, and Alex McMurtry was on beam during that cele-bration and was just as poised as ever and nailed a solid routine. It really just goes to 
show the mentality and the level of com-
petitors we have on this team.”
And while the No. 3 Gators (4-1, 2-1 
SEC) didn’t leave with a win against No. 6 Alabama, they still posted a team score of 197.425 in their ﬁ  rst SEC road meet, the nation’s highest road score of the weekend.
Florida scored at least a 9.8 in 22 of its 
24 routines, including seven scores at or 
above a 9.90. “This team rose to the occasion and put 
on a fantastic performance,” Rowland said. 
“From the freshmen all the way to the re-turners, it was really nice to see.”
Florida, which is now past the half-
way point of its regular-season slate, has yet to post a team score less than a 197.10 through the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve meets.
But the Gators have entered their most 
difﬁ  cult part of their schedule.
The meet against the Tide kicked off a 
stretch of ﬁ  ve straight SEC meets, includ-ing No. 9 Georgia, No. 23 Arkansas, No. 13 Missouri and No. 2 LSU. 
“SEC meets are always difﬁ  cult,” Row-
land said. “It’s the adrenaline rush, more Gators gymnastics consistently scoring high  
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
The Associated Press
Chris Chiozza reacts after hitting a three-pointer against Georgia on Tuesday.
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Senior Ryan Orr had never won 
a tournament as an individual in his 
four years at Florida. But after shoot-ing 6 under (204) during the two-day Sea Best Invitational, Orr captured 
his ﬁ  rst title by one stroke over team-
mate Alejandro Tosti. 
The senior was able to hold onto 
the lead despite shooting over par in 
the ﬁ  nal round.
“It’s really good now. I’m sure 
it’ll settle in more, maybe through-
out the day, maybe next week," Orr said in a release. "It’s a really, re-ally good feeling to ﬁ  nally get a win again. I haven’t won in a long time and it’s my ﬁ  rst collegiate victory, so 
it really feels good.” 
The Gators also captured the 
team title, ﬁ  nishing the tournament nine strokes ahead of second-place 
Lipscomb University.
Despite being critical of his play-
ers after Monday’s performance, coach J.C. Deacon was pleased after the win. 
“Really happy for the guys, and 
most happy because they prepared very, very well for this week. We’ve had great weather in Florida the last two months and the guys have taken advantage of it, spent a lot of time 
at the course prepping for this week 
and it showed," Deacon said. "(The team) had a tough circumstance to-day, a one-shot lead in pretty tough conditions with a very demanding golf course, and the guys played fan-tastic golf.”
The team saw three Gator golf-
ers ﬁ  nish in the top ﬁ  ve, a feat they 
accomplished last year in this same 
tournament when they had four players ﬁ  nish in the top ﬁ  ve posi-tions. Tosti, a junior from Rosario, Argentina, ﬁ  nished second after 
shooting 69 on the ﬁ  nal day. He shot 
5 under in the tournament and also recorded a career-low 205 over the three rounds at Sea Best. He beat his previous personal record — a 206 at last year’s Sea Best Invitational — by one stroke.
Just behind Tosti was sophomore 
Gordon Neale. Neale dropped to a tie 
for ﬁ  fth place after holding a tie for 
second following Monday’s action. He shot 2 over (72) on the ﬁ  nal day of action.
Elsewhere for the Gators, 2016 
SEC Freshman of the Year and All-American Sam Horsﬁ  eld rebounded from a mediocre ﬁ  rst round to shoot under par in his ﬁ  nal two rounds. 
Horsﬁ  eld struggled to ﬁ  nd his swing 
on Monday, as he ﬁ  nished the ﬁ  rst round at 9 over. In the ﬁ  nal two rounds, he was able to bounce back and shoot a combined 4 under (69, 
67) to boost himself into the top-20 
scores.
Jorge Garcia and Ryan Celano 
also competed for Florida, ﬁ  nishing 9 over and 16 over, respectively. A.J. Crouch competed as an individual and completed the day at 22 over, tied for 72nd.
Deacon said this has been the 
best month the team has had since he arrived in Gainesville.  
“I hope that that sticks with the 
players and they realize that prepa-ration does pay off," he said. "I’m happy for them. It’s good momen-tum, good atmosphere and a good jolt of energy for us in general. We’ll get home, get back to work and 
work on the things that we didn’t do 
as well this week and continue to try and get better and build for the end of the season.”
Up next for the Gators, they will 
host the Suntrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course Feb. 18 and 19. The Gators haven’t won at Mark Bostick since 2011 and will look to stay perfect in the Spring sea-son when they return home.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org 
TOP FIVE TEAM FINISHERS AT 
SEA BEST INVITATIONAL 
• Florida (-4)
• Lipscomb University (+5)
• Liberty (+9)
• Arkansas (+13)
• North Carolina (+15) Orr, Gators men's golf team take home titles at Sea Best
you got to the company, that boss leaves for a rival com-pany while you’re contractually obligated to stay for at least a year before you’re allowed to contribute to any other company. 
The solution, though, is not to limit coaches. It sucks 
they can leave players and programs whenever they want, but hey, they’re adults who should be able to take on better opportunities, just like you and me with our  own jobs. That’s not the problem. 
The problem, rather, is athletes’ lack of mobility. If athletes were allowed to transfer without having to 
sit out a season, programs wouldn’t have an incentive to keep assistant coaches around until after NSD. The sliminess of the current process would be ﬁ  xed. 
However, allowing athletes unlimited transfer op-
tions also poses problems. So perhaps the solution lies in the middle of two extremes: Allow for one penalty-
free, preseason transfer for every undergraduate student 
athlete. 
Since coaches can leave them at any time, why not 
give the athletes the power to do the same, at least once?
Ethan Bauer is the sports editor. His columns appear 
on Wednesdays. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @ebaueri. COLUMN,  from pg. 14
than anything. The excitement, the adrenaline, you know, is always going to be there. There are never com-petitions we have to help the girls get up for. I know they are ready for the challenge and ready to perform and put on a great show for Gainesville.”
Florida will have its hands full when it meets the 
Bulldogs in the O’Connell Center on Friday.
Georgia, which started the season off slow with a 
193.600 loss against LSU, has won ﬁ  ve straight meets. 
Unlike the Gators, though, they have only posted a 
team score above a 197 once against Missouri.
“We’re at home. We’re always excited to be home,” 
Rowland said. “Another great rival, and looking for-ward to hosting them this Friday.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14UF takes on 
UGA on Friday
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry performs her bars routine against Auburn on Jan. 27.
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2017
By Sean Denison
Sports Writer
At this point, SEC championships have 
become routine for the Gators men’s 
swimming and diving team.
Winners of four straight titles, the Gators 
are one of the favorites heading into the con-
ference championships, which begins Tues-
day in Knoxville, Tennessee. 
Ahead of the ﬁ  ve-day meet, the men’s 
team has won four straight dual meets, in-
cluding three against conference opponents 
Texas A&M, Auburn and Tennessee. 
After its win against Tennessee last week, 
the Gators men’s team moved up four spots in the polls to No. 6. And two of its swim-mers — Chandler Bray and Caeleb Dressel — won SEC honors, the conference announced on Jan. 31. 
Because of its recent and repeated success 
in the SEC, the UF men’s team’s conﬁ  dence level is continuously high, while the women’s team — losers of two conference meets in a row — works to take steps in the right direc-tion.
“Maybe the best thing about the women’s 
team is that we got a lot of improvement we can still make,” coach Gregg Troy said. “And 
we can evaluate some of those things to get 
better.”The women’s team, which has 14 freshmen, 
has endured growing pains throughout the season. But Troy remains optimistic. 
“We’re learning a lot by making our 
mistakes,” Troy said. “But we’re not making the same ones. I think that bodes well for our future.”
A high number of freshmen is one thing 
the men’s and women’s teams have in com-mon. However, the men’s team — which has 13 true freshmen — has a slightly different problem: It has too much depth. Heading into the SEC Championships, 
Troy has a lot of decisions to make on the men’s roster.
“We can only take 19 swimmers to the 
meet,” Troy said. “We have seven or eight other guys that could easily be our 12th guy.”
Unlike the men’s team, the women’s team 
has struggled against its conference oppo-nents this year. Its sole victory — a 188-112 win against Arkansas — has become a distant memory, having occurred more than three months ago. 
The women’s team’s latest defeat came 
against conference rival Tennessee 151-149 in the Gators’ only home dual meet of the sea-son on Jan. 28. However, the women’s team swam well and moved up a spot to No. 19 in the ﬁ  nal regular-season edition of the CSCAA/TYR Top-25 swimming and diving rankings.
After its defeat, Troy said the women’s 
team was “certainly not going to be the favor-
ite at the conference meet.”
The difference between the men’s and 
women’s teams may be obvious But despite 
both teams trending in opposite directions, both are hoping to have the same amount of success at the SEC Championships.
@seandenison
sdenison@alligator.org  Florida swimming: Two teams, two diﬀ  erent directions
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
At the Florida Challenge on Jan. 
30, the ﬁ  rst test for coach Emily Gla-ser’s freshmen golfers was a gruel-ing 11-hour, 36-hole gauntlet of cold weather and stiff competition.
After a tough start, the young 
Gators ended up acing that test.
“From a coach’s perspective, I 
think we started out a little slow in the morning,” Glaser said. “I think we didn’t get off to the start we wanted.”On that cold Monday morning, 
all ﬁ  ve of Florida’s players shot over par in the ﬁ  rst round. But the difference between that ﬁ  rst round and the second was obvious: Three of the ﬁ  ve players were under par, while the Gators added ﬁ  ve more 
birdies on the back 18 than they had 
in the morning.
“There’s a reason that we’ve 
recruited them here to the Univer-sity of Florida,” Glaser said. “It’s because they’re fantastic players, high-level players.”
Carlotta Ricolﬁ  , one of Glaser’s freshman recruits and a member of the Italian National Team, played a huge role in helping the Gators overcome a sluggish early morning at the Black Diamond Ranch in Le-canto, shooting 3-under par in the second round after accounting for 
four bogies and a triple bogey in the 
ﬁ  rst. 
Ricolﬁ   was added to the team’s 
lineup earlier that morning when fellow freshman Elin Esborn of Swe-den suffered an injury to her right wrist and could not participate.
“I’m working on my mental aspect,” Ricolﬁ   said. “I try not to change anything and play the same way. Obviously to be on the team makes you want to do better, but I try to control this and just go out there and play my best.”
Added Glaser: “There’s a certain 
type of learning curve for freshmen. That’s what she’ll kind of be bat-tling a little bit is just trying to get some tournament experience under her belt and get comfortable.”
The Gators travel west to Palos 
Verdes, California, to compete in the 3-day, 54-hole Northrop Grum-man Regional Challenge against 15 other universities from Sunday to Tuesday. They’ll have to deal with out-of-state rival No. 25 Alabama and represent the only other SEC competition in the ﬁ  eld of 16.
For Glaser, this is only another 
test.
“We really have to go out there 
and try to have our A-games,” she said. 
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org
 UF women’s golf team relying on young talent early in seasonMax Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Coach Gregg Troy (second from right) and others celebrate during Florida’s meet 
against T ennessee on Jan. 28.
