By Max Chesnes                  
and Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writers 
Lil Wayne, a ﬁ  ve-time Grammy 
award-winning rapper, will perform 
at UF in April. 
Wayne, whose real name is 
Dwayne Carter Jr., will be at the O’Connell Center on April 4, said Student Government Productions chair Dillon Knox. Fliers were hand-ed out announcing the upcoming show during Wednesday’s Big Sean and Lil Yachty concert, he said. 
Knox said he wasn’t aware how 
much Wayne would be paid, and an ofﬁ  cial with the O’Connell Cen-ter couldn’t immediately be reached for comment. The center will be 
organizing the show as part of Lil 
Wayne’s 2017 “The Dedication” tour.
Ticket sales for the general pub-
lic will begin Feb. 24 at noon, ac-cording to Ticketmaster’s website. Knox said ticket prices haven’t been 
announced.
“I don’t have an exact date yet, 
but I expect an announcement early 
next week,” he said.
Justin Cox, a UF biology junior, 
said he’s excited to attend the con-cert because Lil Wayne is his favor-ite rapper.“I was introduced to him in mid-
dle school, and I’ve been listening to him ever since,” Cox said.
The 21-year-
old said he cre-ated a Spotify playlist as soon 
as he found out about the concert to prepare for it. 
He plans to buy 
tickets as soon as they go on sale. 
“I’m not worried about the 
price,” Cox said. “I’ll pay whatev-er it takes to get me through that door.”We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 105 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
Florida basketball plays Miss. 
State on Saturday 
The Gator are on a seven-game win streak, pg. 13
UF professor canceled class for protest
He did so in solidarity with nationwide Day Without Immigrants strikes, pg. 4
UF student honored with tree
Abigail Dougherty died in October, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Standing in front of a nearly all-white 
crowd at UF’s Florida Field, a 15-year-old 
black boy belted out a song of exaltation.
It was 1960 — and he wasn’t supposed 
to be there.
On any other day, the soul-singing 
prodigy known as Little Jake Mitchell — backed by a band of his friends from Gainesville’s all-black Lincoln High School — would have been barred entry from the then all-white university.
UF was still two years away from ad-
mitting black undergraduate students for the ﬁ  rst time. Its ﬁ  rst black student, who 
enrolled at the College of Law in 1958, had 
just left after three trimesters, citing the struggle of carrying the weight of history on his back.
But on this day, Mitchell broke through 
the barrier. He became UF’s ﬁ  rst black en-tertainer. More, he was headlining.
And he had demands: His people 
should be allowed to hear him play. 
UF listened.In a way, Mitchell, now 72, says he 
opened the door for integration at UF and for other black musicians and entertainers to perform at its many venues.
Wednesday, two rappers — Big Sean 
and Lil Yachty — performed for a mixed crowd, a path Mitchell paved.The rappers were paid a combined 
$160,000. Mitchell was paid $700. 
He considers it an entry fee.
“We made it possible — I always will 
say this — we made it possible for blacks 
to be able to go to the University of Florida in a sense,” he said. “Because music was a thing that brought peoples together. And they was crazy about our music.”
On Saturday he’ll take the stage again, 
this time at Soulfest. He and his band, The Soul Searchers, go on at about 4 p.m. at 
First Magnitude Brewing Company.
Rehearsing for the concert in a cramped 
room in downtown Gainesville on Feb. 9, 
it’s clear he hasn’t lost his groove, as he swaggers to his spot, easing into falsetto from baritone while a blend of horns, gui-tars, percussion and an organ guide him into the night.
“When I’m rehearsing, it’s like I’m do-
ing a show,” he said. “I put my all and all into it.”
•   •   •
Mitchell’s rise to fame stemmed from a 
stroke of luck at a poultry market in Tam-pa.
He was about 12 years old, and — as 
can be said at almost any point in his life 
— he was singing.
Singing so loudly that the market’s 
owner, on the phone with a manager at the 
time, could hear him in the background.‘We made it possible’: 
UF’s ﬁ  rst black performer still singing    
Grace King/Alligator Staff
Little Jake Mitchell, a singer who became UF’s ﬁ  rst black Gator Growl performer in 1960, 
rehearses with his band on Feb. 9 ahead of the Soulfest concert.
Lil Wayne
THEY ARE CONSIDERING 
MAKING T-SHIRTS. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
In the last two weeks, The Ridge 
at Gainesville has been the scene of 
two deaths.
The new apartment complex, 
which opened in August, has en-
dured the accidental death of a San-
ta Fe College freshman Feb. 4 and a murder inside one of its apartments Monday, according to Alligator ar-chives.
In light of a trying time at the 
complex, some residents have talk-ed about making T-shirts that read, “I survived The Ridge.”
Francesca Ratovich, a 20-year-
old resident of The Ridge, said she was shocked after she found out about the recent deaths, so she and 
her friends tried to make light of the 
situation.
“It’s like a mechanism you use 
to not think about the tragedy,” the UF microbiology and cell science sophomore said.
She said she’s considered going 
to management and asking them to increase security.
“I guess this one kind of pushed 
it over the edge,” she said about the Residents of The 
Ridge react to deathsRapper Lil Wayne set to perform 
at UF’s O’Connell Center in April SEE SINGER,  PAGE 9
SEE RIDGE,  PAGE 9Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 105
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club offers free lessons and dances every Monday and Friday night. On Friday nights, 
the organization hosts two lev-
els of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organiza-tion hosts two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
at the Reitz Union Breezeway. 
For more information, find the Florida Swing Dancing Club on Facebook.
‘Hamilton’ trivia night 
Reitz Union Board Entertainment will be hosting a “Hamilton”-themed trivia event Monday in 
the Reitz Union, Room 3315. 
Guests are encouraged to arrive at 6:30 p.m. Trivia will begin at 7:00 p.m. and last about one hour.
#NotAccommodating T-shirt 
campaignThe #NotAccommodating cam-
paign is a visual protest to the 
changes marginalized people make to their identities in or-der to fit into mainstream so-ciety. Through this campaign, they hope to shed light on the community’s stories and how they should rise above it. The first event of the series, the 
#NotAccommodating T-shirt 
campaign, will be Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
On the Edge: What Future for 
the African Sahel?
Join us for the 2017 Gwendolen 
M. Carter Conference in African Studies organized by the UF Sahel Research Group from Thursday through Feb. 25. All panels will be held in the Reitz Union except for the first key-note lecture and the opening reception, which will be held 
at the Harn Museum of Art. 
Transportation to the museum will be provided. This interdis-ciplinary conference will bring together scholars from Africa, Europe and North America to offer perspectives on key issues shaping the region. The confer-ence is free and open to the pub-
lic, but advanced registration is 
kindly requested. For more in-formation, visit sahelresearch.africa.ufl.edu.LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion Queerness and Disability is the second installment of UF LGBTQ Affairs’ semesterlong lunch se-
ries. They will look to examine 
and understand the intersection of LGBTQ+ identities and dis-abilities, and they will explore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related to different facets of these intersectional identities. This event is open to all people, whether you do 
or do not identify as LGBTQ+ 
or disabled, and will take place in the LGBTQ Affairs space in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Feb. 24 from noon to 1 p.m.
Gay Movie Night — 'People You 
May Know' 
On Feb. 24 at 7:30 p.m., a 
showing of “People You May Know” will be hosted at Pride Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St. Gay Movie Night is on the last Friday of ev-ery month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to 
help cover cost of snacks. Find 
more information at facebook.com/135747915702.
An evening of Finnish folk mu-
sic The Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music” 
on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the 
Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave. The per-forming and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English and their native language, Finnish. This free musical pro-gram will be in Meeting Room 
A. For more information about 
library programs, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.
Florida Museum to host kid-free 
camp for grown-ups Come to the Florida Museum of Natural History for an adults-only evening camp March 10 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Activities 
include access to museum ex-hibits, arts and crafts and a na-ture night walk in the nearby UF Natural Area Teaching Lab. The camp is $20 for museum mem-bers and $25 for nonmembers. Preregistration is required, and participants must be 18 years 
or older. For more information, 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/kid-free-camp or call 352-273-2061.Ask a Scientist: Geology at 
Florida MuseumFlorida Museum of Natural History visitors may bring speci-mens and find answers during 
an afternoon of discovery and 
learning March 12 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Participants for Ask a Scientist: Geology may talk one-on-one with researchers from UF’s department of geological sciences. For more information visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/ask-scientist-geology or 
call 352-273-2062.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Solutions seminar 
featuring Chris KochCanadian farmer Chris Koch was born with no arms and legs, yet despite the challenges he faces, he chooses to take life in 
stride and make the best of ev-
ery situation. He has not let lim-itations and obstacles stand in the way of achieving his goals. Chris will speak March 13 at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at 6 p.m. and again on March 14 at 9 a.m. in the Straughn Center. UF students and the greater 
Gainesville community are wel-
come to attend either session. Learn more and register for this free event at cals.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Can You 
Dig It?’ March 18Discover the earth at your feet during this free, fun-for-all-ages 
geology event! Enjoy hands-on 
activities from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on March 18 and watch demon-strations of volcanic eruptions. Presented in part by the UF de-partment of geological sciences. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/canyoudigit or call 352-273-2062.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  76° LOW  46°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
Trophies bearing the image of a 
Gator on top of a globe were award-
ed Friday to 100 companies led by Gator alumni.
Applied Genetic Technologies 
Corp., a Gator-founded clinical-stage biotechnology company, topped the list by showing a 548-percent rate of growth in proﬁ  t over the past three years, said Tim Walsh, the execu-tive director of the alumni associa-tion.
Gator100 is an event presented 
by the UF Alumni Association and UF Entrepreneurship and Innova-tion Center that recognizes the achievements of businesses led or owned by Gators, he said. All the companies were invited to a lun-cheon last Friday at the Reitz Union, where each was recognized.“I think it helps raise the proﬁ  le 
of the university when we highlight 
our successful alumni,” he said. 
“It’s one of our favorite programs of the year.”
Walsh said Gator100 allows 
people to see what a Gator degree 
can do. The alumni who were rep-
resented in the list came from 12 UF colleges. 
Shemi Freytes, a junior executive 
from Applied Genetic Technologies, 
said the company placed in the top 20s last year, so she was happy to 
jump to the No. 1 spot. 
The CEO of the company, Sue 
Washer, is a graduate of the UF 
Warrington College of Business’ entrepreneurship program. Freytes 
said the company plans to apply 
again next year. 
“It really says a lot to how much 
we’ve evolved,” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org UF alumni recognized for their fast-growing businessesA TREE WAS DEDICATED 
TO ABBY DOUGHERTY, 
WHO DIED IN OCTOBER. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Abigail Dougherty once told 
her mother that when she died, 
she wanted a seed planted in her memory.
Without knowing Dougherty’s 
wishes, the Gainesville City Beau-tiﬁ  cation Board planned to dedi-
cate a southern magnolia tree in 
her honor. Dougherty had been 
a member of the board for about 
a year, according to Alligator ar-chives. The UF applied physiology 
and kinesiology senior died in a 
bicycle accident near Midtown in October.
Thursday, about 20 people 
close to Dougherty, including her 
mother, gathered at the Matheson 
Library and Archives for the dedi-
cation service.
Anita Forester, Dougherty’s 
mom, said the tree was a meaning-ful way to remember her daugh-ter, who died days before her 21st 
birthday.
“She wanted to be buried as a 
seed pot and grown into a beauti-
ful tree,” Forester said. “That was 
what her wishes were. She really 
would have loved this whole idea that we’re going to have a tree to 
come back and remember her.”
The plaque, placed at the foot of 
the tree, read “In loving memory, 
Abigail (Abby) Dougherty,” writ-
ten inside the outline of a heart.
Tricia Hood, the chairman of 
the board, said she went through 
every tree in the nursery to ﬁ  nd 
the perfect one for Dougherty, which was donated. The group 
began planning the event shortly 
after ﬁ  nding out Dougherty had died.
“She will live on through this 
tree,” Hood said. “And I will make 
sure it’s taken care of. I will come 
check on her all the time.”
Hood cut off the magnolia’s 
lower branches to give to Forester, so she could take the leaves and 
spread them with family. Dough-
erty’s dad didn’t come to the dedi-
cation ceremony because it was too painful for him, Forester said. 
He does plan to visit the tree soon.
After board members shared 
stories of Dougherty’s dedication 
and vivacity, friends embraced 
near the tree.
Stephanie Muench, a 22-year-
old UF anthropology senior, met Dougherty when the two trained to be yoga instructors together in Fall 
2015. Muench said she told Dough-erty’s friends about the ceremony, 
adding that they’ve become closer 
since her death, relying on each 
other for support and comfort.
“Just thinking about how she 
would have wanted us to con-tinue living this life and trying to 
make everything better has deﬁ  -
nitely made it easier for her close friends,” Muench said.
Forester said she liked know-
ing that years down the road, she 
could come visit her daughter’s 
tree.
“I keep saying it, she was a 
creature like no other,” Forester said. “She was something else.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org‘In loving memory’: City honors UF student after death
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
A close-up of the plaque that was made in honor of Abigail 
Dougherty. The plaque rests below the southern magnolia tree planted for Dougherty on Thursday.
One company grew by 548 percent
“It really says a lot to how 
much we’ve evolved.”
Sue Washer
UF alumnus4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF professor Arnoldo 
Valle heard immigrants across the 
nation planned to strike on Thurs-day, the Mexican native canceled his classes.
Valles, who immigrated to the 
U.S. in 1986, organized a three-hour protest on Turlington Plaza in solidarity with the nationwide Day Without Immigrants strike.
In opposition to President Don-
ald Trump’s hardline stance on immigration, foreign-born workers across the U.S. went on strike to 
show their everyday contributions 
to the American economy, accord-ing to USA Today. 
Instead of going to work, immi-
grants protested in cities across the U.S, including Philadelphia, Wash-ington, D.C. and New York.
About 20 people attending Val-
le’s protest. 
“Immigrants are an integral part 
of the U.S. — culturally, economi-cally and educationally, as we can see here at the university,” said Valle, a 54-year-old civil and coast-al engineering professor.
Valle said if immigrants didn’t 
show up at UF for work one day, he guessed the university would be “half-functioning.” 
“Imagine how many classes 
would be canceled,” he said. 
His canceled classes, physical 
oceanography and data analysis techniques, have about 10 gradu-ate students each. Valle emailed students and some colleagues, in-viting them to join him. Some at-tended the protest.
“I don’t know if I’m going to get 
in trouble for this,” he said. “But 
we’re here in solidarity of all im-
migrants.”
Juan Paniagua, one of Valle’s 
geology doctorate students, held a sign that read: “Remember, this nation was made by immigrants.”
Paniagua, 30, a Colombian in-
ternational student, said he pro-tested to show his disapproval of 
the U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids being carried out across the country.
“Some people are in desperate 
situations,” said Paniagua, who plans to return to Colombia after he graduates. “They have U.S.-born kids, but they are going to be deported. They live in fear of when it’s going to happen.”
Diego Andres, a father of four 
who immigrated from Guate-mala in 2004, also went on strike Thursday. Andres is a gardener for West Palm Landscaping Service, a Gainesville-based company.
“I think my boss already knew 
about it when I said I wasn’t go-ing in, because he just said it was fine,” Andres said in Spanish.
The 27-year-old said he doesn’t 
understand why Trump issued the travel ban on seven Muslim-major-ity countries, or why immigration officers are carrying out raids.
“All the undocumented people I 
know come here to work,” he said. “They don’t come to steal. They come to pay taxes.”
He said he doesn’t regret strik-
ing, even if he misses a day of pay.
“I feel that I did something good 
so that everyone knows how much they need us here,” Andres said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
UF, Gainesville community participate in national strike
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Sangdon So, a visiting scholar for UF’s College of Engineering who 
is originally from South Korea, protests in support of immigrants on Thursday. He said he would like to get a green card and live with his family in the U.S., but he’s uncertain it will be a possibility for him.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A night downtown ended 
abruptly when a Gainesville man 
was arrested for driving while his blood alcohol level was more than three times the legal limit, 
Gainesville Police said.Police pulled Douglas Alan 
Marsh, 33, over Thursday for driv-ing without headlights on, accord-
ing to a police report.
During field sobriety tests, 
Marsh staggered and stumbled, and his eyes were red and watery as he slurred his speech, accord-ing to the report.“I’m too drunk to drive,” he  
admitted after performing poorly 
on field sobriety tests, according 
to the report.
He was taken to the Gainesville 
Police Department for a breatha-lyzer test, and his blood alcohol level was .304, according to the report.Marsh had about three shots 
and four beers before he got into his gray 1994 Honda Passport at about 1:28 a.m. Thursday to give a woman a ride home from the bar, 
according to the report.
Earlier in the evening, he went 
to MOJO Hogtown Bar-B-Que, a 
downtown restaurant and whis-key bar, before he met with the woman at Durty Nelly’s, an Irish pub, according to the report. The woman said she noticed Marsh have a few drinks but got a ride home because she was drunk. 
Police arrested Marsh on a 
charge of driving under the influ-
ence. Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail, where he was released on his own recogni-zance Thursday afternoon. 
As of press time, Marsh could 
not be reached for comment.
GPD: Man arrested, admitted he was ‘too drunk to drive’THE PETITION HAS ABOUT 
300 SIGNATURES. 
By Kristen Dugan
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A group of UF students is gathering signa-
tures for a petition against fracking in Florida, with plans to present it to a Florida senator Tuesday.
The student organization UF Catalysts for 
Change has collected about 300 signatures over the past two weeks in support of their petition to ban fracking in Florida to avoid the risk of contaminating drinking water and harming natural landscapes, said Sophia Se-mensky, the organization’s vice president. On Thursday, the group’s members stood on Turlington Plaza asking students to sign their petition.
A proposed bill in the upcoming Florida 
legislative session looks to ban all fracking in the state. The group said it hopes to get the petition to Sen. Rob Bradley, a Republican representing District 5 and a member of two environmental committees, who hasn’t taken a public position on fracking. 
Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, involves injecting water, sand and chemicals under-ground to create fractures in rock formations, which allows natural gas and oil to be released, 
according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Supporters say fracking increases produc-
tion and lowers energy costs, but opponents 
argue it can affect water supplies and cause environmental damage.
Semensky, an 18-year-old UF exploratory 
freshman, said she stood for two hours on Turlington asking students to sign the peti-tion, which said, “Please put the safety of our 
drinking water before the profits of oil & gas 
companies.”
“We want to make as many people aware 
as possible before the legislative session,” she said. 
Tuesday, members of the club will travel to 
Starke, Florida, to meet with Bradley’s legisla-tive assistant and present the petition, which will hopefully have 400 signatures, she said.
Evan Shapiro, a UF political science senior, 
signed the petition Thursday.
“I watched the documentary ‘Gasland,’ and 
I don’t want my kitchen sink to light up on fire because fracking caused tap water to contain chemicals,” the 22-year-old said. “I hope all the senators vote against fracking.”Students petition Florida 
Senate to ban fracking
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
After a 50-hour search for a plane that 
went missing over the Gulf of Mexico, the 
U.S. Coast Guard suspended efforts to locate the plane and its passengers Tuesday.
The Coast Guard and volunteers searched 
2,016 square miles after the plane and its three passengers went missing Sunday, Coast Guard spokesperson Michael De Nyse said.
Jasper Jerrels of Brooksville, Florida, his 
17-year-old son, Dylan, and Jerrels’ fiance, Hue Singletary, were flying to Cedar Key, Florida. It was a trip Jasper Jerrels had made many times, said Juday Bason, Jerrels’ cousin.
Jerrels, 65, was scheduled to land his Piper 
Cherokee aircraft Sunday afternoon but never showed, De Nyse said. On Tuesday, Jasper Jerrels’ body was found and later identified by the Levy County Sheriff’s Office. Debris and an aircraft seat matching the description of the plane’s interior were also found, but there was no sign of the other two passengers.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with the 
family at this time,” he said. “If we get any information that could lead us to where we think these people are — and alive — that opens up a whole new avenue of search pos-sibilities,” he said.
Bason said although Jerrels has been fly-
ing for about 20 years, he hadn’t been flying very much recently after the death of one of 
his daughters.
UF student Mohammed Bhadelia, 19, said 
he was surprised after hearing that the plane 
went missing because it’s something that hap-pens so infrequently.
When he was a junior in high school, he 
began to train for his pilot’s license, he said. He remembers learning how to manage a plane in a dangerous situation, but he’s not sure 
what he would do if he were in one.
“If I was up there and something started go-
ing wrong and I couldn’t fix anything, I’d just 
be confused,” the UF management sophomore said.
Although the Coast Guard stopped its search, 
local rescue teams continue to look for Jerrels’ son and Singletary in Levy County, Bason said.
“We’ve got a lot of people praying,” she said. 
“He was a very good person with a very close-knit family. He will be missed.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgCoast Guard stops search 
for plane in Levy County
He was giving someone a ride home FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
UF HAS 46 FEDERAL 
JUDGES IN THE U.S. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Law alumni rank 13th in the 
nation for most federal judgeships 
and ninth for most federal district 
court judges.
According to a paper in the Ten-nessee Law Review, UF has 46 
federal judges and 44 district court judges, beating out schools like the University of Chicago and tying with the University of California at Berkeley, respectively. Harvard Law School ranked first in both catego-
ries.
Jon Mills, UF Levin College of 
Law’s dean emeritus, said the col-
lege instills important values in fu-ture judges like prudence and tem-perament.
“I think we try to instill that your 
ethical conduct and your reputation are the most valuable things that you carry with you as a lawyer,” he said.
Mills, who has been a member 
of the Florida Judicial Nominating Commission for 12 years, makes recommendations for judgeships. He said many prospective judges are UF alumni, especially within Florida.
“I think it’s a recognition that if 
you work hard and are successful, a Florida law degree is valued, is valued by the profession, both in Florida and beyond,” Mills said.
Judge Sherri Collins, who gradu-
ated from UF in 1991, said she clerked for an 8th Circuit judge dur-ing her time in law school. She is  now a county court judge in Palm Beach County, Florida. Collins said UF Law helped her become a good lawyer and judge. 
“If I wasn’t successful in my posi-
tion after graduation as an attorney, there’s no way I would have been successful in my position to be able to be a judge,” Collins said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF alumni rank high for judges in federal, district courts
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
MILKSHAKES BRING STUDENTS TO YARD
Brett Weibert hands a free vanilla milkshake to Chester Etienne, a 19-year-old UF finance freshman. 
The company F’real promoted its prepackaged milkshakes on the lawn behind the Hub on Thursday.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer 
A California-based smartphone 
app delivered $1 Chick-fil-A sand-
wiches to students at UF for five hours Thursday. 
 JoyRun, a community-based 
delivery app, offered chicken sandwiches to the first 100 users to download the app and invite five of their friends, said Mike Dominski, a company growth lead.
Students across 44 campuses 
use the app, which has been avail-able on the iTunes store since 
2016. Dominski said students 
can order whatever they want, whenever they want, including non-food items. People who have downloaded the app can also make money delivering orders.
“Students are always com-
ing up with new ways to use the app,” Dominski said. “We’ve 
even had somebody order a betta 
fish delivered to their house.”
Hannah Doyal was in Marston 
Science Library when she ordered a Chick-fil-A sandwich, she said. Forty-five minutes after she down-loaded the app, it was delivered.
“I think it is beneficial since 
it’s a convenient way to get food and make money for people who want to deliver,” the 18-year-old UF mathematics and philosophy freshman said.
UF students working for Joy-
Run were in charge of delivering sandwiches during the promotion, Dominski said.
Abby Bukovich, a UF finance 
and information systems junior and JoyRun employee, said the business was overrun with orders as soon as the promotion started.
“We had 60 orders in just the 
first 40 minutes,” the 21-year-old said. “It’s been insane.”
About 100 UF students have 
volunteered to run deliveries since the application went live, she said.
“Our goal as JoyRun employ-
ees is to not be running orders in a few months,” she said. “We hope that more UF students will start volunteering to make deliveries after this promotion.”
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org App delivers students 
free Chick-fil-A meals
By Jamie Honowitz
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In an attempt to alter its reputation as a 
space catered to educating the youth, one 
UF museum is offering adults a chance to leave the kids at home and indulge in its exhibits after dark.
As part of its 100th anniversary in May, 
the Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting adult-only classes, art and sci-ence camps and other events to encourage adults to get involved with the museum, said Tiffany Ireland, the museum educa-tor. The museum saw a recent trend of more adult visitors, so it wanted to pro-vide more opportunities for them to visit.
One event, the Kid-Free Camp for 
Grown-ups, will give participants 18 years or older free reign of the museum, includ-ing nighttime walks in the outside nature area.
“We started these programs because we 
get parents coming in and picking up their kids saying, ‘I wish I got to go to camp,’” she said. “Now the adults get to, too.” 
Participants must be 18 years or older 
and are required to pre-register, Ireland said. Prices range from $20 to $40 and are discounted for museum members.
On Valentine’s Day, the museum host-
ed an adults-only trivia night, Ireland said. More events are scheduled for March.
“I hope (adults) remember how much 
fun they had learning as a child,” she said. “But it doesn’t stop. They should always keep learning.”
Ali Gadapee, a museum member, said 
out of the five years she has been a mem-ber, this is the first time it’s done anything like this. She agreed that there’s a need for events marketed toward adults.
“It’s something different to do, other 
than going to dinner or a movie,” she said. “It’s nice to do something creative and learn something that maybe you’ve forgotten.”Florida Museum hosting art, 
science camps for adults
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Over the past year, visits and donations 
to the Field and Fork Pantry have nearly 
doubled.
The amount of weight in food distributed 
by the pantry, which provides donations 
for UF students and staff, increased by 93 
percent, said Ambre Hobson, the assistant director at the Dean of Students office who supervises the pantry. When she compared the second week of February in 2016 and February 2017, she said she found that the number of transactions at the pantry in-creased by 98 percent. 
“As we’re open longer, more and more 
people are aware of who we are, where we are, what we do,” Hobson said.
In February 2016, there was a decrease 
in donations. Hobson said food pantries generally see a dip in January and February as the holidays end and people’s generosity wanes.
This year there hasn’t been a decrease 
because of student organizations and com-munity members like Publix, Hobson said.
Students make up 80 percent of the pan-
try’s visitors, and 20 percent are other peo-ple in need, like UF staff. Unlike when the pantry opened in August 2015, visitors now have a cap on the amount of certain items they can take each week.
Wyatt Kelch, a 21-year-old UF civil en-
gineering junior who’s been working at the pantry since Fall 2015, said it has begun to run more smoothly. The food limits are a 
newer change.
“Before, it would just be whoever came 
at the beginning of the day would take ev-
erything,” Kelch said. “Some people who can’t come in the morning would not be able to get anything.”
Hobson said the pantry provides people 
with food security.
“I think the food pantry really helps fill 
one of those elemental needs so that, you know, a human being can focus on what they need to do in their life,” she said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgDonations increasing at 
UF Field and Fork PantryThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
As the rush of Valentine’s Day week ends, bouquets of dead 
flowers start to show up in trash cans, and those little helium 
balloons are starting to take up space. Perhaps you stocked up on chocolates, or you’re going through the large box you were given. Either way, the one holiday to look forward to in February (unless you’re really enthusiastic about Presidents Day) has passed, and now there’s only Spring Break to look forward to. That is, unless, you have grabbed a copy of our dear newspaper and flipped open to this week’s …
Darts & Laurels
So what’s the only thing better than discounted buy-one-
get-one chocolate this week? It’s Girl Scout Cookie season in 
the 352. That’s right folks, after your biweekly grocery trip, be sure to swing by one of the booths and purchase your favorite cookie: Thin Mints, Samoas and Trefoils galore! If four dollars 
seems a bit pricey for happiness, just remember that not only 
are you buying cookies, but you’re also giving to an organi-zation focused on empowering young girls. The Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. have been under fire from more traditional or-ganizations for allegedly teaching girls an information-based, sex-education curriculum instead of abstinence-only, and for welcoming transgender girls into their ranks. We don’t know about you, but we’d buy some cookies if it’s for inclusion, education and empowerment. So a laurel to the Girl Scouts 
of the U.S.A. for their delicious cookies and their dedication to promoting compassion, courage and confidence in young ladies.
White House press secretary Sean Spicer messed up the 
name of a foreign leader earlier this week. Now, we under-stand that foreign names can sometimes be hard, especially when you’re not particularly known for being welcoming and courteous, but the name he messed up was Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada, a country which is arguably 
the closest in demographics, culture and lifestyle to the U.S. 
Spicer called the Canadian prime minister “Joe Trudeau,” which could be worse, but it was also not a very hard name to mess up in the first place. Twitter was quick to make jokes about Trudeau’s alter ego. Some defended Spicer, saying he merely fumbled, but we’d like to argue that as White House press secretary, not fumbling in front of the press is in your job description. We throw a dart to Sean Spicer, who either 
needs to work on remembering simple names or take a public 
speaking class. 
Speaking of Twitter, the hashtag #DisabledAndCute started 
trending last Sunday when 25-year-old Keah Brown tweeted 
pictures of herself with the hashtag. This sparked tweets from others in the disabled community, celebrating their diversity and giving them a chance to shine in an internet sphere that is usually preoccupied with Kardashians and Jenners. Usu-ally, when disabled people are trending in the media, it’s for what Brown calls “inspiration porn,” in which they are seen 
as “only being as valuable as what (one) can achieve or make 
able-bodied people feel about themselves.” The hashtag ex-ploded in popularity, and members from all across the dis-abled community posted pictures, loving themselves for who they are. We give a laurel to Keah Brown, the hashtag and 
Twitter for sparking a movement of acceptance for people otherwise exiled from mainstream media.
Now, dear readers, for an issue close to our hearts: Val-
entine’s Day. We get it; love is in the air and you feel the 
need to express it. But is all the flare worth it? The cheesy 
Hallmark cards, the pressure of the “perfect Valentine’s date” and the guilty calls to mom and grandma that — let’s be real — you know you should be making anyway? Love isn’t love if you wait for a lone day in February to show it off. And so we give this overly commercialized, superficial holiday a 
dart. Roses may be red, and violets may blue, but if you wait until Valentine’s Day to treat your boo, you’re a schmuck. As our tweeter-in-chief would say, “Sad!”Successful women: Please don’t screw this up
Women who have made their way to 
the top of the professional food chain 
did so by shattering through the te-nacious glass ceiling that prevents   
women from climbing up the rungs 
of the corporate ladder.
Women who have made it to the top did not 
make it there by chance. They made it there 
through undying perseverance, devotion and 
tenacity. Their accomplishments are nothing 
short of monumental and should never go un-
recognized or uncelebrated. To these women who have 
managed to find themselves covered in shards of glass and 
dominating the professional world, I must say two things. 
First, congratulations. You are an inspiration to driven 
and hopeful young girls everywhere. Second, please do 
not screw up. 
When women are put into positions of power, they 
have more to uphold than their own reputations. Not only are powerful females routinely judged on a much less for-
giving scale than their male counterparts, but they are also seen as a reflection of their gender as a whole. The misog-
ynistic and narrow-minded individuals who believe that women don’t belong in boardrooms or on the Congress 
floor will bite at any bait given to them that will further 
support their antiquated thoughts. 
For some reason, these misogynists like to group wom-
en together. It seems they have this mentality that tells them, “If one woman did it, all women must do it.” Al-though this could not be further from the truth, 
this misconstrued logic has been spewed out 
time and time again by those who consider fe-male leadership to be inferior to the leadership 
males can provide.
This illogical explanation for keeping women 
at the bottom of the totem pole is exactly why 
successful women need to be alert and on their toes at all times. When a woman makes a mis-
take, she sets all women back. No matter how 
much I wish this not to be true, this is the real-
ity that we face, and as unfair as it may be, women who have made it owe it to those of us who are still climbing 
to not screw up.
When Kellyanne Conway makes up massacres or Hill-
ary Clinton deletes some emails, it doesn’t just hurt their 
careers; it hurts all of ours. When Hillary Clinton lost the 
election, many people blamed it on her gender, saying 
women don’t have what it takes to lead our nation. Unfor-tunately, every mistake made by Conway will be used to 
keep women from becoming presidential counselors, and 
every slip-up of Clinton’s will be used to keep women out 
of the Oval Office for years to come. It is unfair, it is sexist 
and it is disappointing, but it is also reality.
In our society, if you are a woman and you have made 
it to the top, you had better be near perfect. If you’re not, 
you will be ripped apart, and all other women will be 
flung even further below the unwavering glass ceiling. 
I realize that expecting all successful women to main-
tain a flawless record is a bit extreme; they have already done so much and worked so hard to get where they are. I 
do not wish to undermine their achievements. I hope one 
day we can live in a nation where gender is not stereo-
typed and women and men can lead side by side. How-
ever, until women have a majority or even an equality 
with men in the professional world, this is the existence 
that we have to deal with.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism sophomore. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORAbigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
“In our society, if you are a 
woman and you have made it 
to the top, you had better be 
near perfect.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
In the year 1840, when the U.S. was not 
even a century old, Frenchman Alexis de Tocqueville wrote the historical “De-mocracy in America,” the detailed obser-vations of a nation just starting to break 
through its initial growing pains. By then, the experiment that was the U.S. had been around long enough for both its citizens and outsiders from Europe to take note of how things were going. If the life of America thus far was a col-lege course, “Democracy in America” would be the country’s gradebook after a rough mid-term week. A point where one thinks, “Alright, how are we doing here?”
Tocqueville painted an impressively de-
tailed picture of life in the new country, ana-lyzing both the day-to-day happenings of the common man, as well as some much broader socio-economic observations. One phenom-enon of particular interest has been tagged the Tocqueville effect (despite poor Alexis having nothing to do with the actual effect), an obser-vation that has proven time and time again to be a truism in developing countries.In short, the Tocqueville effect 
is the idea that social frustrations grow more rapidly as societal con-ditions get better. Or, put another way by Wikipedia, “after greater social justice is achieved, there may be more fervent opposition to even smaller social injustices than before.”
Think of it like a version of 
Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, but for growing nations. Once the people stop having to worry about bloody revolutions, witch hunts, the guillotine and famines, they can then turn their attention toward the more minute details of society, and often get ticked off because of it. To paraphrase Tocqueville, when all conditions are unequal, nobody re-ally cares about inequality because there is so much other stuff to fret over. But when the country starts to become more uniform social-ly, with less stark inequality among citizens, people grow more critical of and offended by any inequality at all. What results is a loop of decreas-
ing inequality, followed by an in-crease in social frustration, and so on, until it seems that the people are just always mad at something. Toc-queville observed this phenomenon all across Europe — most notably with the bloodbath that was the French Revolution — but the effect can be clearly seen in the relatively short history of the U.S. With all of 
the social and political strife occurring today, I cannot help but wonder if we are all just pow-erless guinea pigs within Tocqueville’s scarily predictable phenomenon.
Like any ongoing phenomenon, one must 
wonder how (or if) it ends. Is there a solution to the Tocqueville effect? Will our society be-come so scrutinized and corrected that there will eventually be no inequality and, thus, nothing left to complain about? Is a pure and completely uniform society even possible? Or is it just man’s unintentional nature to put some before others? If the Tocqueville effect really is the way of 
the world, then I am very curious as to how long it can go before something drastic hap-pens. Are divisive elections, riots and social conﬂ  ict the only end? They can’t be. Does the democratic machine eventually just implode on itself? Or is the effect simply explaining the impact of privilege when applied to a society as a whole? 
How do the majority act when they are all 
equal? It makes sense they would then focus on the few that are still not fully equal socially, but eventually there will be nobody left. And what happens then? 
I can speculate until the sun sets, but what 
good is such fruitless speculation? It appears Tocqueville’s observations and phenomena are indeed accurate and still active today. I suppose the only thing to do is to sit back on this hamster wheel of democracy and see how it goes. This should be interesting. 
Andrew Hall is a UF management junior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
On a Saturday afternoon in late August, I heard Migos’s last single of 2016. I almost cried.
I forwarded the link to a few of 
my friends, a couple of my professors 
and my grandma. They, too, thought it was ﬁ  re. Did you react similarly when you heard “Bad and Boujee” for the ﬁ  rst time? Did an icy chill trickle down your spine when the beat dropped? 
Of course it did. Migos’s last single of 2016 
is one of the best mainstream hip-hop songs of the decade, evidenced by its platinum sta-tus. But what about it is so great? What about Travis Scott’s “Pick Up The Phone,” Amine’s “Caroline” or Chance the Rapper’s “No Prob-lem” make them so listenable, so memorable, so fashionable?
I say that the condition of hip-hop is, for 
better or worse, far more concerned with style than meaning and expression. Mainstream hip-hop is a counterculture against the hip-hop of the '80s and '90s. It isn’t without its imperfec-tions; take a look at hip-hop. You’ll ﬁ  nd it’s stricken with a blatant sexism and an indifference to social issues. De-spite this, hip-hop culture is still cel-ebrated. Have we stopped yet to ask ourselves why?
Before we dissect new-school 
rap, let’s ﬁ  rst deﬁ  ne terms: What is hip-hop?
Historically speaking, it’s four 
things: DJing, breakdancing, graf-ﬁ  ti art and rapping. You might think rap and hip-hop are the same thing, but in the words of the late-’80s New York City artist KRS-One, “Rap is something you do, hip-hop is something you live.” Hip-hop encompasses a speciﬁ  c urban culture; rap is one facet of that culture.
The distinction continues to fade, as the 
other three components of hip-hop vanish from popular culture. The trendy rap music of the 2010s bears little resemblance to the sounds of Snoop Dogg, Rakim, Outkast and other proto-millennial artists. What changed? 
At some point, hip-hop music underwent a slow but steady shift in focus from lyricism and reverberating protest, to aesthetics and cocky grandeur. Modern hip-hop’s emphasis on luxury, fun and hedonism made it more marketable to an already ma-terialistic America, and in the past decade, rap music came into vogue. 
Hip-hop can be uncomfortably 
sexist, though we don’t want to ad-mit it. Why is sexism so entrenched 
in hip-hop? In a genre dominated by men, sex-ism is easy to ﬁ  nd. The more we ignore, deny or defend it, the more deeply it’ll root itself in. If you choose to remain indifferent toward it, you are choosing to embrace it. Sadly, a lot of artists have already done the latter. 
The thing about music is that there aren’t 
just a few great artists who represent a genera-tion: All artists represent the generation they come from, even the sexist arists. We cannot pick and choose which musicians we want to represent us. 
That being said, I ask again: What about hip-hop is so great? What is its condition?
Hip-hop is great because anyone can listen 
to and enjoy it, but not everyone can under-stand it (literally — it takes a trained ear to be able to understand what Young Thug is say-ing). It’s great because artists present a wide spectrum of sounds and attitudes, but still rep-resent it all the same. Lil Yachty and Future have radically different styles, but one cannot say one artist represents hip-hop culture more than the other.
While hip-hop does come with ﬂ  aws, it is 
important to remember it is an ever-develop-ing movement. Hopefully, with more time and awareness, the kinks will work themselves out. Hip-hop is the genre of the inner cities, youth and the black community; for as long as the inner cities struggle, as long as the youth of America demands the world’s recognition and as long as blacks keep doing our thing, I think that hip-hop will remain at the center of American culture.
A version of this column by Justin January 
originally ran in The Emory Wheel.
Considering what the Tocqueville eﬀ  ect is and how it applies to today’s society 
‘Rain drop, drop top’: how hip-hop continues to develop in American cultureColumn
UWire
Justin January
UWire
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
By Lindsey Paige
Alligator Contributing Writer
In Jonny Howard’s backyard, a 50-gal-
lon barrel is catching raindrops off his 
rooftop.
The 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior, who 
bought the barrel when he moved off-
campus, uses the conserved water for a 
small garden in his backyard.
Alachua County’s Environmental Pro-
tection Department is also encouraging 
residents to buy barrels and help conserve 
rainwater, said Stacie Greco, the Alachua County water conservation coordinator. 
The barrels can be purchased through 
the county’s website for $75, Greco said. The retail cost of the rain barrel is $129.
The barrels capture water that runs off the roof of a home and keeps the water from running into a yard or street, which could contribute to ﬂ  ooding and pollution, 
she said. 
But residents can use the water from 
the barrels for household chores and gar-
dening, she said. The barrel can connect to a hose, making it easy to use.
“This program is an important step to-
ward protecting clean water in our com-munity from storm-water pollution be-cause it offers an inexpensive and proven 
option to help people make a difference in 
their own backyards,” Greco said.
Howard said his mother had his family 
use one when he lived back at home. 
“I think it’s going to be a beneﬁ  cial 
way for the city to prevent pollution and be more resourceful.”Alachua County encourages 
residents to buy rain barrels
The Associated Press
The Trump administration said in court 
documents Thursday it wants a pause in the 
legal ﬁ  ght over its ban on travelers from seven predominantly Muslim nations so it can issue a replacement ban as it strives to protect the 
nation from terrorism.
Details of the new proposal were not pro-
vided in the ﬁ  ling or at a wide-ranging news 
conference by President Trump. But lawyers for the administration said in the ﬁ  ling that a ban that focuses solely on foreigners who have never entered the U.S. — instead of green card holders already in the U.S. or who have traveled abroad and want to return — 
would pose no legal difﬁ  culties.
“In so doing, the president will clear the 
way for immediately protecting the country rather than pursuing further, potentially time-
consuming litigation,” the ﬁ  ling said.
Trump said at the news conference that a 
new order would come next week.
“I will not back down from defending our 
country. I got elected on defense of our coun-try,” he said.
The administration asked the 9th U.S. Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals to hold off on making 
any more decisions related to the lawsuit ﬁ  led 
by the states of Washington and Minnesota until the new order is issued and then toss out the decision keeping the ban on hold.
Washington state Attorney General Bob 
Ferguson said the federal government was “conceding defeat” by saying it does not want a larger appellate panel to review the decision made last week by a three-judge panel of the 
9th Circuit.Trump seeks pause in legal 
ﬁ  ght with revised travel ban“Who is that singing?” asked 
Henry Urso, the owner of Sweetwater 
Poultry Market.
“That’s Thelma’s son. That’s 
Jake,” the manager said.
“You hold him there until I get 
there,” Urso ordered.
Urso took the young singer, who grew up in a project housing unit,  
under his wing, acting as his man-
ager.
He put Mitchell on a plane to 
Chicago later that year, hoping some 
connections he had with Chess Re-
cords would help Mitchell make a 
career of his talent.
It panned out, with Mitchell sign-
ing a 10-year contract, singing on a master tape with Chuck Berry and go-ing on tour soon after.
Although the deal would turn sour 
following a contract dispute, Mitchell 
toured with a Tampa-based group on 
the “chitlin circuit,” a nickname giv-
en to tours centered on predominant-
ly black clubs, called “juke joints.”
Still in school, Mitchell toured 
with the group, The Skyliners, two months a year from 1957 to 1959.
“I was a drawing card for them. I 
was a young boy, 12 years old. And 
they thought I was fantastic,” he said.
•   •   •
Originally born Arnold Rodriguez, 
Mitchell earned the name Jake from 
his aunt and his last name after his 
mother remarried.
Soon enough, he moved to 
Gainesville and enrolled at the now-closed Lincoln High School. After the 
Brown v. Board of Education ruling, 
many Florida politicians insisted on segregation, but Mitchell’s music broke through the racism.
At UF’s Fraternity and Sorority 
Row, he was a celebrity, playing four-hour concerts every weekend for two 
years straight. 
The university quickly took no-
tice, and Florida Blue Key invited him to perform in 1960 for an all-white audience.
But if Mitchell was going to sing, it 
was going to be for everyone. 
He bargained with then-UF Presi-
dent J. Wayne Reitz and Florida Blue Key, which organized Gator Growl, to 
open the gates.
They caved. Ten thousand bleach-
er seats were set aside for blacks. From center stage, Mitchell could see them ﬁ  ling in, separated from whites.
Minutes into the performance, 
however, the crowd’s color began 
to blur as whites and blacks danced 
along to the sound of Mitchell’s band, 
The Blenders.
“The bleachers that they put in 
the end zone, they was packed, I say, within the seconds. And everybody 
started sitting together in the bleach-ers, in the stands and everywhere,” 
he said. “And everybody was just 
having a good time. And everybody 
was so happy. Black and white was 
together, and I loved that.”
News of Mitchell’s performance 
reached the then all-white Gainesville High School, where Charles Stead-ham admired how music breached the racial divide.
Steadham, who now plays saxo-
phone in Mitchell’s band, said musi-cians are typically “10 years ahead of 
politicians” in terms of social change.“It was a time of change and a 
time of evolution,” he said. “The 
wonderful thing to me, you know, is realizing that music helped lead the way.”
It wasn’t until 2011, when both 
Steadham and Mitchell were out of 
retirement and met at a jam session 
in Gainesville, that they decided to link up.
Mitchell’s band needed a horn 
section, and Steadham helped ﬁ  ll the hole. The Soul Searchers, which now 
boasts ten members, plays shows 
throughout Florida, specializing in 
traditional soul music.
As he readied his sax to begin 
rehearsal Feb. 9, Steadham clipped on dark lenses to his glasses. The di-
minished sense of sight, he said, en-hances his other senses, including his 
hearing.
In a way, Mitchell removed color 
from the picture when he performed 
at UF.
“When you take part of your vi-
sual sense away, you sharpen your other senses,” Steadham said. “All we saw was the music and camara-derie and mutual support. Over time, 
people fell in line behind that.”
  @martindvasolo 
 mvassolo@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Grace King/Alligator Staff
Little Jake Mitchell, 72, rehearses with his band, The Soul Searchers, 
on Feb. 9 in downtown Gainesville. Mitchell, who began singing when he was 5 years old, credits his historic 1960 Gator Growl performance as a catalyst to integration at UF.
killing of Jose Ricardo Ortiz III. “At 
night, I do kind of watch my back be-cause it is scary.”
When she ﬁ  rst moved into the 
complex she said security would pa-
trol all hours of the day and night. 
But security hasn’t been as active since.
“I have not seen one security guard since August,” she said.  
It makes her nervous that people 
could look at The Ridge and think it’s 
a bad neighborhood — it’s not, she 
said.
“I don’t know what it is about 
all the incidents happening back to back,” she said.
Her mom asked if Ratovich would 
consider moving, but she said she al-ready resigned her lease.
“The Ridge is so convenient for us that I don’t think we would leave,” she said.
Robert W. Bauer, The Ridge’s 
lawyer, asked for clariﬁ  cation when he found out what the residents planned to put on T-shirts.
“That is certainly an issue that we 
would be concerned about,” he said.
He called it inappropriate, consid-
ering the gravity of the crimes, and said this is not something the com-plex would support.“We do not want to minimize 
anyone’s loss,” he said.
Tatiana Arce, 19, said when she 
called her dad to tell him about the murder, he laughed and gave her the idea for the addition to her wardrobe. 
“He thought it was crazy, but he 
didn’t freak out,” said the UF nursing sophomore.
Her mom, on the other hand, was 
more concerned about the environ-ment Arce is living in and questions whether it is safe.
Regardless, Arce has resigned a 
lease to live at the complex for an ad-
ditional year. She said she feels safe 
there.
“The locks are good, and the 
people are nice,” she said. “It’s not as bad as people perceive it to be.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgRIDGE,  from pg. 1A resident said security has not been as active since she moved in
SINGER,  from pg. 1Mitchell will perform at Soulfest on Saturday with his bandFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
Volunteers of America is offering
FREE, ALL-INCLUSIVE 
HOUSING FOR
HOMELESS VETERANS
in a friendly, supportive atmosphere.
Please call Woody at 352-642-8313
for immediate move-in!
2-22-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.Female only. Sublease a furn BR in 3/2 pent-
house at fabulously close to campus Social 
28. Avail 5/1 to 7/31, 2017. $825/mo. Pool, 
gym, internet, utils & flat screen TV in BR 
are incl. Please call Tammy 954-599-6433     
2-20-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-20-5-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N       2-17-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
JEEP WRANGLER UNLIMITED
For sale, 2016, white 4 door, 3810 miles, $38,000, or $10,000 and take over pay-ments. Call 225-239-8512    2-21-17-5-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
Typist needed for book. 10 to 20 
hours per week , call 317-5427
2-20-5-14
Assessment Writers/EditorsProgress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
AIRLINE SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeksnot years to become a certified aircraftdispatcher. Job placement assistance.Call AIM 888-242-2649.     2-17-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ALMIGHTY GOD, Help me Trust in Thee with all my Heart, Lean not to Mine Own Understanding, and in ALL my Ways Acknowledge Thee. www.Christ-is-all.us      2-17-1-18
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334-7726 and make a REAL connection.       2-17-1-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestBECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDMedical Billing and CodingCareer Training at Sullivan andCogliano Training CentersCall 1-888-535-9909 or clicklearn.sctrain.edu Financial Aid Availableto those who qualify.SCtrain.edu/disclosures      2-17-1-15
QuickBooks and PayrollCareer Training at Sullivan and Cogliano Training CentersCall 1-888-535-9909 or clicklearn.sctrain.edu Financial Aid Availableto those who qualify.SCtrain.edu/disclosures     2-17-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years. Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305       2-17-1-16
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger & Harder Immediately! Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely. Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Phone Consultation: 1-800-354-3944 www.DrJoelKaplan.com       2-17-1-16
ACROSS
1 Earth tone
6 Popular speaker
10 Unlike Wabash
College
14 “Voilà!”15 Over16 Company with a
Select Guest
loyalty program
17 Ladies’ man with
laryngitis?
19 Ultimately earns
20 Airport NNW of
IND
21 Spicy cuisine22 A native of23 Goneril’s
husband
25 Revered sage, in
India
27 Sweeps, e.g.28 Infant at bath
time?
29 1995 “Live at
Red Rocks”pianist
30 African scourge32 Indian silk-
producing region
34 Suffix with ethyl35 “Same here”
40 Counsel
43 Cheer44 High schooler
just hanging out?
48 Highest peak in
the Armenian
plateau
50 Armed ocean
dweller?
51 Makes it right
52 Pride parade
letters
53 “Macbeth” spot
descriptor
55 Division of the
Justice Dept.
57 Buffalo’s county58 Ordinary-looking
fashion VIP?
60 Marketing
opener
61 “What a shame”62 Really like63 Aren’t really,
maybe
64 Nasdaq
competitor
65 Like Vikings
DOWN
1 Emperor after
Galba
2 Bach works3 Word associated
with Sleepy
Hollow
4 Goof5 Checkout
correction,
perhaps
6 “Point Break” 
co-star
7 Vision: Pref.
8 They’re meant for
each other
9 Makes beloved
10 Informal
discussion
11 Last book of
Puzo’s“Godfather” trilogy
12 Bury13 Alarm18 “Trophy,
Hypertrophied”artist
24 __ Men: “Who
Let the DogsOut” band
26 Follow27 Rail system that
services 20-Across
28 Dahomey, since
1975
31 One at a time33 Actor Damon36 OPEC founding
member37 Ring fighter
38 Pop-up items39 As of 1937, he
was the all-timeN.L. home run
leader until Mays
surpassed him in1966
41 Like many a
successful pokerplayer
42 Consumed44 Keys45 Unilever
deodorant brand
46 Likely to change47 Regard49 Serling’s birth
name
51 Ouzo flavoring
54 “Serpico” author
Peter
56 Hightail it
59 “Star Trek: DSN”
changeling
By Mark Feldman©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/17/1702/17/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 17, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida transfer Rachel Slocum  is bringing high energy and high scores to the UF gymnastics team. Read the story, pg. 14 Florida men's tennis to compete this weekend
The Gators will travel to Virginia for the ITA T eam Indoor Championships, 
which start today when they play T exas. For a full preview, go online to alligator.org/sports.With the devastating news Gators basket-
ball fans received Wednesday regarding starting center John Egbunu’s ACL tear, I want to talk about something positive for a change.
So, how 'bout that guy Chris Chiozza?
A couple of weeks ago, I wrote a column about 
what UF’s options were at point guard for next year 
after starting guard Kasey Hill graduates.
In the column, I praised the work of freshman Eric 
Hester, who went 5-for-5 from beyond the arc and 
scored 16 points in Florida’s 106-71 trouncing of LSU on Jan. 25. I also criticized Chiozza and his less-than-stellar play over the past two-and-a-half years, and I talked about how encouraging it'll be to ﬁ  nally have a point guard who can shoot the basketball.
I questioned a future with Chiozza running the 
show.
Now, I want to apologize.Chiozza has made me eat those words as of late.And it all started on Feb. 2 — the Missouri game.Chiozza scored 12 points, dished out 10 assists and, 
at 6-feet (that’s being generous), snatched down 12 re-bounds. It was the fourth triple-double in UF history. 
“Chris was amazing,” UF coach Mike White said in 
a release. “Obviously, it was his best game as a Gator. 
He’s been a big X-factor for us.”
Since that game, the one they call “Cheese” hasn’t 
slowed down.
He’s only averaging six points, three rebounds and 
3.8 assists per game this season, but over the last ﬁ  ve 
games, Chiozza is averaging 10.2 points, six rebounds and 5.4 assists per game. He’s also scored in double digits in four out of the ﬁ  ve games, including 15 points on 6-for-10 shooting in a 72-60 win at Georgia.
Even in his lone single-digit outing — a two-point 
performance against then-No. 8 Kentucky at home —Chiozza was still able to make an impact, totaling nine rebounds and nine assists in the upset victory. He was also tasked with defending the SEC’s leading scorer and former McDonald’s All-American Malik Monk for much of the game.
Monk scored 11 points on 14 shots.“He’s a starter who’s coming off the bench,” White 
said of Chiozza ahead of the Georgia game. “For him to be rebounding the ball the way he’s rebounding it with his size shows you the toughness that he’s play-ing with, the tenacity that he’s playing with.
“He’s making really good decisions.”I no longer doubt Florida’s future without Hill.Chiozza’s recent play has cleared that up for me.And if he continues to play with patience on offense 
and fervor on defense, I see no reason as to why the 
Gators won’t be even better in the year to come.  Chris Chiozza is 
slowly but surely 
proving himselfHERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Mike White was disappointed after 
Florida’s route of Auburn on Tuesday 
night.
Despite 114 points, 11 three-pointers 
and 37 made free throws, the Gators’ second-year head coach shook his head.
“Outside of early in the second half, 
we could never ﬁ  nd a defensive rhythm,” White said in a release. “They’re just dif-
ﬁ  cult to defend. Good thing for us it was 
one of those nights where we made a 
bunch of shots.”Florida couldn’t deal with the Tigers’ 
up-tempo offense, and the 95 points it 
surrendered to Auburn was the most the 
Gators have given up all season.
But UF has the chance to get back to 
its defensive ways on Saturday at 2 p.m. 
when the No. 15 Gators (21-5, 11-2 SEC) 
travel to Starkville, Mississippi, to take 
on the Bulldogs (14-11, 5-8 SEC) in Hum-phrey Coliseum. 
Outside of sophomore guard 
Quinndary Weatherspoon, a top-ﬁ  ve scorer in the SEC (16.7 points per game), the Bulldogs have a mediocre offense.
At 74.4 points per game, Mississippi State ranks eighth in the conference in scoring. 
The Bulldogs also struggle from the 
free-throw line, where they shoot 68.9 percent and often fail to get on the boards, where they average 35 rebounds per game — next to last in the SEC.
The stars are aligned for a bounce-
back game on the defensive end of the ﬂ  oor for Florida.
One thing it will have to look out for, 
however: the three-point shot.
In the ﬁ  rst half against Auburn, UF 
struggled with defensive communication, leading to several wide-open triples that gave the Tigers an early lead.
And despite all of its offensive short-
comings, Mississippi State remains one of the best three-point shooting teams in the conference.
The Bulldogs have ﬁ  ve active players 
who shoot over 34 percent from beyond the arc. And as a team, Mississippi State shoots 36.9 percent and converts 8.2 three-pointers per game — both third in the SEC. 
Meanwhile, the Gators are in the 
midst of a seven-game win streak and haven’t lost to the Bulldogs since 2009. 
But Florida will have to play without 
starting center John Egbunu, the team’s leading rebounder and primary interior presence, who is out for the season after tearing the ACL in his left knee against the Tigers.
“He’s been playing really well of 
late, so it’s a tough blow to him and our team,” White said of Egbunu. “He’s a great young man, and unfortunately in-juries are a part of basketball. He’ll be back even stronger.”
But the Gators, who are now in a two-
way tie with No. 13 Kentucky atop the conference standings, can’t slow down.
Florida has to get back to its identity 
on Saturday afternoon — defense.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org  Men’s basketball to play Mississippi State
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White calls out to his team in Florida's 71-62 win against T exas A&M on Saturday in the O'Connell Center. 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
As Amber Smith’s jumper from be-
hind the three-point arc effortlessly snuck through the bottom of the net late in the fourth quarter, Amanda But-ler couldn’t contain her frustration any longer.
The head coach in her 10th sea-
son at Florida angrily turned toward the crowd and simulated a swift kick, holding up just in time to avoid mak-ing contact with the scorer's table.
Despite strong stretches of play 
from the Gators on Thursday night, Missouri’s perimeter shooting was simply too much to overcome.
The Tigers converted on 13-of-28 at-
tempts from downtown and made 19-of-20 shots from the free-throw line on the way to defeating UF 74-67 at the O’Connell Center.
Sophomore guard Sophie Cunning-
ham led the way for Missouri with 28 points on 8-of-18 shooting. Senior guard Sierra Michaelis tallied 15 points as well,  along with four rebounds and four assists.
For Florida (13-13, 4-9 SEC), Ronni 
Williams notched 17 points and seven rebounds to continue her solid senior campaign. Junior forward Haley Loren-zen and freshman guard Delicia Wash-ington also scored 16 points each, and junior guard Dyandria Anderson re-corded a non-scoring double-double with 11 rebounds and 11 assists.
 Women's basketball loses to Missouri
SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16The Gators have won seven straight14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
As soon as the upbeat melody begins to 
play, there is no doubt which Gator is about 
to compete.
The tune — a mashup of All Night and 
Catgroove by Parov Stelar — is high-energy, and the routine choreography is funny and light, but also strong, matching the personal-ity of the gymnast performing it.
Rachel Slocum.
“I think if I tried to do like a Rachel Gow-
ey routine, so like soft, dancey, it would look 
awkward on me,” Slocum said on Wednes-day. “I like that it’s high-energy, and I like to interact with the crowd.”
Whether on the floor or on the sidelines 
dancing, her energy is infectious to the crowd and her team during meets.
But don’t mistake her playful personality 
as a sign of her being a disinterested com-
petitor. 
In last Friday’s meet against then-No. 9 
Georgia, she earned a 9.875 with her floor 
performance. Her vault, however, came in striking distance of perfection.
The unusual vault — a front handspring 
pike-front half twist — has earned her no less than 9.875 through five meets.
But for the first time against the Bulldogs, 
one judge gave her a perfect 10 while an-
other gave her a 9.950, averaging out to a 
9.975, a career high.
What the junior transfer from Eastern 
Michigan wants now, however, is a perfect 10 from both judges.
“Oh my gosh, I can’t even explain how 
much I want it,” Slocum said. “I’m like right 
there. … I think this weekend if I do what I’ve been practicing and stick that landing it will seal the deal.”
Slocum will get that opportunity tonight 
when No. 3 Florida (5-1, 2-1 SEC) takes on No. 23 Arkansas (2-4, 2-3 SEC) in Fayette-ville. 
The Gators are coming off their best per-
formance of the season but are still searching for their first SEC road win.
“I think that this is honestly one of the 
best teams I’ve been on since I’ve been here,” junior Kennedy Baker said. “I think that whatever we want, we can get.”
Between Baker (floor) and teammate Alex 
McMurtry (bars), Florida is the first school in the NCAA to have a 10 from two gymnasts this season.
McMurtry, who has yet to compete on 
floor, will make her all-around debut against the Razorbacks, according to Florida coach Jenny Rowland, if everything goes to plan.
And while the Gators have already proven 
how dominant they can be, Rowland is still looking for the same intensity tonight against a tough conference opponent.
“Competing against every SEC team, it’s 
always a wow factor,” Rowland said. “There is not one team in the SEC that you can be down for.”
@LStaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgTransfer Slocum energizing No. 3 Florida’s gymnasts
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Rachel Slocum performs her floor routine during Florida’s win over Auburn on Jan. 27 in the O’Connell Center. 
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
Before the 2017 Florida soft-
ball season began, the team all ready featured names well-known throughout the league.
The lethal pitching combination 
of senior Delanie Gourley, junior 
Aleshia Ocasio and sophomore Kel-
ly Barnhill drew lots of attention. Other eyes looked toward veteran hitters such as junior Kayli Kvistad 
and sophomore Amanda Lorenz.
Freshman Jaimie Hoover was 
not one of those names.
But Hoover has made plenty of 
noise to begin the Gators’ season.  
The Suwanee, Georgia, native 
had a tremendous high school ca-
reer at Collins Hill High School, where she set new school marks for home runs, batting percentage 
and RBIs.
Early into her first campaign, the 
change of scenery has not changed 
the freshman’s ability to impact games. Over the four games she’s 
played, Hoover is batting .444 and 
tied for second on the team with 
five RBIs.
“She didn’t play against Michi-
gan. That’s probably her first-career 
non-start,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“And her first at-bat was a grand 
slam, so I think she answered that call pretty well.”
Walton hasn’t even given the 
freshman playing time in two of 
the six games so far.
Defensively, Hoover only committed one mistake against 
St. John’s, but has otherwise maintained a strong .900 fielding percentage.
While few expected to see such 
great action from the freshman, Walton isn’t surprised with his 
young player’s performance.“I don’t think that there was 
really anything that stood out as 
surprising to me,” Walton said. “I thought all of our young players had nerves… but you could see them get better as the weekend went on.”  
Expectations for rookies include making a fair amount of mistakes, but consistently solid performances and highlight reel plays aren’t usu-ally normal.
Hoover is altering that standard.Moments such as her grand 
slam against Delaware and triple 
versus Jacksonville show flashes of extreme talent and batting power, 
and Florida can use all the offense it can get.
Last season, the Gators’ offense 
was called into question after some disappointing performances near the end of SEC play. Questions 
grew larger after an early tourna-
ment defeat against Georgia in the 
Super Regionals, where UF accu-
mulated only eight hits and two 
runs over the two losses.
Over their first five games, the 
Gators have averaged 6.5 runs a 
contest.
But while Florida flourishes on 
both sides of the ball, improvement is always the goal.
“One of the players texted me 
last night, and she was not happy 
with her performance,” Walton said. “She was ready to get back to work tomorrow, and so I’m excited 
to do that.”
Now, No. 1 Florida faces anoth-
er weekend with games slated five times over three days. In UF’s own 
Aquafina Invitational, the Gators 
face Florida A&M before taking on 
Northwestern State twice, battling 
Maryland and closing with Florida 
International.
Both Maryland and FAMU have 
yet to register a victory, and all four 
teams combine for a record of 8-14.
The action begins for the Gators 
when they play Florida A&M this afternoon at 3:45.
 
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.orgFreshman Hoover catching eyes for UF softball team
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Jaimie Hoover bats during Florida’s 5-2 win over St. John’s on Saturday at the USF-Wilson Demarini 
T ournament. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
On a lineup full of returning 
players for the No. 3 Gators la-
crosse team, one name stands out every time.
Cara Trombetta — freshman.For Florida, it’s not rare for 
freshmen to make an impact right away. Last year, then-fresh-men attacker Lindsey Ronbeck 
and midfielder Sydney Pirreca 
finished within the team’s top 
five in goals.
However, Trombetta is the 
only freshman to start for the 
Gators this season. On defense, she will try to 
fill the role Sydney DuPre left 
behind due to graduation, play-ing with two seniors in Caroline Fitzgerald and Taylor Bresna-han. 
“She’s do-
ing great. She fit right in from 
day one, and she has so much confidence,”  Fitzgerald said. “And we have confidence in 
her. We know she is going to stop her offensive player, her attacker. We help her whenever it’s needed, but she hardly ever needs it.”
In her first game, Trombetta 
proved that.
As part of a defensive unit 
that  let up 13 goals to No. 1 UNC, Trombetta showed her reli-ability in coverage, scooping up three ground balls and causing one turnover. 
And with the addition of the 
shot clock, the defense will need to hold its own for 90 seconds, trying to keep its opponent from shooting the ball. Reliability be-comes more important on a de-fensive unit, as everyone needs to be in sync and know their roles.
But this is to be expected 
from the Holbrook, New York, native that led the Gators’ fresh-man class as the nation’s No. 11 ranked recruit, according Inside Lacrosse.
Trombetta was also a 2015 
Under Armour All-American and a Lacrosse Magazine All-Tournament Team member at the 2013 US Lacrosse Girls U15 National Tournament. 
Her productivity on defensive 
will be tested again and again as the Gators continue their difficult non-conference schedule.
Their next test: No. 4 South-ern California.
The Trojans are coming off of 
a season opening 20-2 win over St. Mary’s. Florida will be play-ing its second straight top-five team and  just beat the Scotland National Team, 27-1, in an exhi-bition game.
“I’m not necessarily sure it 
puts added pressure on them. I think it kind of brings them back to reality,” coach Amanda O’Leary said of the UNC game. “I think we just need to get back to the basics.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
After earning start, Trombetta looking to add to defense
Trombetta
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
For the Gators women’s tennis team, this 
is rivalry week. On Sunday, Florida will play one of its biggest challengers of the season.
It’s not Florida State. It’s not Georgia. It’s 
not even an SEC team. 
It’s Stanford.In what coach Roland Thornqvist de-
scribes as one of the greatest rivalries in college tennis, the No. 1 Gators will face off against their West Coast foe, No. 5 Stanford,  at noon on Sunday. 
For many players, this weekend’s match 
will be personal. The last time the Gators faced the Cardinal was in the NCAA Round of 16, where Stanford ended Florida’s 2016 season, winning a rigorous 4-3 match. Stanford went on to win the national championship. Before that, the Cardinal defeated the Gators 4-3 in California during the regular season.
Despite Stanford’s recent victories over 
the Gators, however, Florida comes into Sunday’s match with momentum on its side. Playing their first game at home in almost three weeks and coming off a massive victory at the National Team Indoor Championships, the Gators will try to keep their winning streak alive. 
Florida will also look to keep its home win-
ning streak alive. The Gators hold the longest home winning streak of any NCAA Division I team with 161 consecutive home wins. That streak will be on the line this weekend. How-ever, Thornqvist said he doesn’t spend two seconds thinking about the streak. 
“Playing the best is 
what Florida’s all about,” he said. “We’re trying to be the best we can be by 
May. And by having teams like Stanford and Oklaho-ma State and Georgia play here at the Ring, that’s going to make us a better 
team. That’s what you’ve got to do.”
Both the Gators and the Cardinal will 
start their weekends by playing the national champion runner-up, No. 6 Oklahoma State. Stanford will face the Cowboys on Friday in Orlando, while the Gators will play them Sat-urday at 4 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Thornqvist is excited about the level of talent both teams are bringing to Florida this weekend. This weekend marks the last in-stance of non-conference play for the Gators before starting their SEC schedule against LSU on March 3. Florida will also have to face the likes of No. 3 Georgia, No. 11 Au-burn, No. 12 Vanderbilt and No. 14 Texas A&M. 
Thornqvist believes the matchups this 
weekend will be good precursors for confer-ence play. 
“Those are the matches we want. It brings 
the best out of both teams,” he said. “We’ll have our hands full, but it’ll make us pay attention in practice.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
Gators women’s tennis hopes to maintain home winning streak 
Thornqvist
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
Last year, he shot the lowest round and 
tournament of his college career. This year, 
his team is looking for more. 
Sam Horsfield, the soon-to-be pro and cur-
rent sophomore for the Gators’ golf team, shot 
a 63 during his first round of the 2016 Sun-
Trust Gator Invitational. That score was good 
enough to tie for the tournament low during 
a round. 
However, because of a strong third round 
from South Florida’s Rigel Fernandes, Hors-
field settled for second despite the fact that he also recorded his lowest tournament score at any event in his career with a 201 over three 
rounds. 
Now, Horsfield and his Gator teammates 
will look to continue their two-tournament 
win streak into their lone home tournament 
of the season at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Along with Horsfield, four other Gators 
will take the course when they tee off on Sat-
urday. 
Alejandro Tosti, who has placed in the top 
three in his past three tournaments, has the lowest 18-hole average on the team (69.90). He’s been able to rebound after a poor tourna-ment at the Carpet Capital Invitational, when 
he finished in a tie for 53rd place and shot 7 
over. Since that weekend, Tosti has shot 17 under in his past three events. He said that his golf game has been “really good lately,” and the only thing he’s been struggling with is “my mental part.” 
Jorge Garcia, the sophomore from Anaco, 
Venezuela, has two top-10 finishes on the year. 
Gordon Neale is the team leader in rounds 
at even or under par with 10, and Ryan Orr, 
the lone senior taking the course this week-
end, is coming off of his first individual win as a Gator at last week’s tournament at Sea Best in Ponte Vedra.
Coach J.C. Deacon continues to believe in 
his team after consecutive tournament wins. 
“We’re in good shape, and the guys have 
been training all year on how to prepare for tournaments.” Deacon said. “So it’s not too 
much different this week.” 
The Gators will be joined on the course by 
fourteen other teams this weekend, including 
in-state rival Florida State and No. 11 Wake Forest. 
Tosti said in a phone interview that the 
team has been playing really well, but there is a little added pressure to play at home. “We play here only once a year,” he said. “And it’s 
kind of interesting because you feel that little 
extra pressure knowing that all the people are here, and they want you to win and the team to do good.”
The Gators will tee off tomorrow for the 
SunTrust Gator Invitational and play two rounds back-to-back before playing the final round on Sunday.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgHorsfield, Gators aim to claim home tournament once again
Alligator File Photo
Sam Horsfield prepares to putt in the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational.
16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
Our tax pros will prepare & ﬁle your 
federal 1040EZ for free. Enter our 
drawing to win a $25 Visa Gift Card! Valid at our ofﬁce only. Bring this ad.
BLOCK ADVISORS
5010 Newberry Rd. Ste. A
Gainesville 32608 · 352-372-7269
Valid for 2016 personal 
income tax return only. Type of federal return /f_iled is based on your personal tax situtation 
and IRS rules. Additional fees apply may apply. OBTP#B13696 Copyright 2017 HRB Tax Group, Inc.
FILEFREE.
IT’S THAT EZ.VALID 
02/01-02/27
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/17.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/17.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thDespite respectable individual performances, 
the Gators' defensive struggles on the perimeter 
ultimately plagued their opportunity at a victory, leading Butler to criticize her players after the 
contest.
“You just can’t exchange baskets with a team 
that shoots that well from the three,” she said. 
“You’ve got to give them credit. They made plays.”
The Gators actually opened Thursday night’s 
contest playing solid defense, holding Missouri 
(18-9, 8-5 SEC) to 11 points on 3-of-14 shooting 
through the first 10 minutes of action.
Multiple perimeter jumpers from Washington 
in the second quarter then helped Florida continue 
to maintain its lead until the final 2:44 of the half.
From there, however, baskets from Cunning-
ham, redshirt senior guard Lianna Doty and Mi-chaelis propelled the Tigers on a 13-0 run to enter the intermission up 35-26.
“I think we let them get into an offensive 
groove,” Butler said. “They just took advantage.”
Although momentum appeared to be shifted 
in Missouri’s direction at halftime, UF exploded offensively when play resumed, scoring 29 third-quarter points.
Lorenzen shot 4-of-5 from the floor to lead the 
Gators on a stretch of nine consecutive made field goals as well as a 15-0 run halfway through the period.
However, the final 10 minutes of play weren't 
as kind to Florida. 
The Tigers outscored UF 21-12 in the closing 
frame, shooting 4-of-7 from the three-point line to close out the victory up seven points.
After the contest, Lorenzen, who went down 
with a lower body injury near the end of third quarter, confirmed that she was all right and would be available for Florida's matchup with Kentucky on Sunday.
“I went down pretty hard, but my teammates 
were right there to pick me back up,” she said. “I’ll be good to go (this weekend).”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 13Missouri outscored Florida 21-12 in the fourth quarter
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF forward Haley Lorenzen shoots in Florida's 74-67 loss to Missouri on Thursday in the O'Connell Center. Lorenzen scored 16 points on 8-for-13 shooting.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Forward Ronni Williams dribbles down the court in UF's loss to Mis-souri on Thursday. Williams scored 17 points and added 7 rebounds.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler talks to her team during Florida's loss to Missouri. "I think we let them get into an offensive groove, " Butler said. 20   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2017
By Patrick Pinak 
Sports Writer
Deacon Liput’s freshman year can be de-
scribed as the fun part of a roller coaster. 
First, there was the high. 
Florida’s stocky second baseman’s blaz-
ing start last year included a team-best 21-game on-base streak during which he tore the cover off the ball to the tune of a .392 batting average. 
From there, though, it was mostly down-
hill.
Liput struggled mightily down the stretch 
as SEC pitchers began to exploit his weak-nesses at the plate. He chased balls out of the strike zone both at his eye level and at his ankles, hitting just .216 over his last 47 games and ﬁ  nishing the season hitting .270.
“I was striking out on the same curveballs 
in the dirt and just stuff like that,” he said. “I wasn’t really making any adjustments.”
Now, as the Gators open the season to-
night against William & Mary, Liput is bring-ing a new look to his stance and approach to avoid a similar slump like the one he en-countered his ﬁ  rst year.
The difference: A leg kick. Liput, who has owned a wide stance 
nearly his whole life, narrowed his stance  by shifting his feet closer together, and he implemented a stride to do two things: pro-duce more power and help his timing. 
During his time in the Cape Cod League last summer, the results began to show in time.
Through his ﬁ  rst 11 games, he hit .178 
with just two extra base hits.
But his ﬁ  nal 15 games saw the 5-foot-10 
second baseman notch six extra base hits — two of which were home runs — to go along with a .400 average. 
It was exactly the type of success Liput 
was looking for heading into his sophomore season. 
“The more reps I got, the better I got at 
it,” Liput said. “It was a little difﬁ  cult, but I got the hang of it after a little bit.”
For coach Kevin O’Sullivan, the hope is 
that Liput’s modiﬁ  cations will bring some much-needed power to a UF lineup that lost Peter Alonso, who hit more than a fourth of the team’s home runs last season, to the draft.
While Liput managed just three homers 
last year, O’Sullivan said his second base-man led the team in the category during fall and early spring scrimmages. 
“I think he’s got more leverage,” 
O’Sullivan said. “I think he’s going to hit for more power, more home runs.” 
But despite O’Sullivan’s high expectations 
for Liput, he isn’t feeling the pressure. His role, in his words, is simple: “Stay within myself.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org 
 Armed with new batting stance, Liput hoping to improve 
Alligator File Photo
Deacon Liput runs toward ﬁ  rst base after hitting an RBI single during Florida’s 4-3 win over Missouri on March 18 at McKethan Stadium. 
Alligator File Photo
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan watches as his players warm up prior to Florida’s 10-4 loss to Mississippi State on April 9. 
INSIDE
Last year, Alex Faedo entered the season as UF’s No. 3 starter. This season, 
he’s its ace and could go No. 1 in the MLB Draft. 
ONLINE
Visit alligatorSports.org for complete coverage of Florida’s opening weekend. OPENINGDAY
FIELD of
DREAMSBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Alex Faedo is early. 
He’s relaxed. He’s talking about his home-
town Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He’s talking 
about how he slices golf ball after golf ball. He’s talking about the Atlanta Falcons playing in the Super Bowl. 
But then the interview begins, and the talk-
ing stops. 
He doesn’t seem nervous as his 6-foot-5 
frame hunches over an elementary school-style 
chair and answers question after question with 
one-sentence answer after one-sentence answer. 
He doesn’t seem disinterested. Yet, the room turns from interview to interrogation, with each question drilling for oil and coming up dry. 
Eventually, after 30 minutes of back and 
forth, four important details emerge about Fae-
do, the ace of Florida’s baseball team.
First, he prays before every game. He won’t 
say about what. 
Second, he doesn’t have any tattoos. His dad 
never wanted him to have tattoos.
Third, he sometimes shrieks after earning 
important outs. He learned that — personally — from José Fernandez.
And fourth, come June 12, he’s going to earn 
more money in one day than many people earn 
in their lives. 
As the potential ﬁ  rst overall pick in the MLB 
Draft, Faedo could pocket a signing bonus of 
more than $9 million. He could also be the ﬁ  rst Florida player to selected ﬁ  rst overall. But he doesn’t like to talk about that — not with a re-porter or anyone else. 
He prefers to talk about something — any-
thing — else. 
Before the interview, for example, he chat-
ters about how the Bucs should have drafted Adrian Peterson fourth overall in 2007 before revealing that he wants Tampa Bay to sign the aging running back now.
“When he’s old and falling apart?” he’s 
asked. 
“That’s ﬁ  ne,” Faedo responds. “He’s got 
heart.”
•   •   •
Alex sprinted toward the car.On and on, he described how much fun he’d 
had in his ﬁ  rst little league baseball game.
“We thought he was so happy because they 
won,” Faedo’s mother, Kristie Donovan, said. 
But after more chatting with the then-4-year-
old Faedo about the excitement of playing, he surprised his mom with an unusual question for a kid who, minutes earlier, had watched the end of his team’s game:
“Who won?” More than 15 years later, Donovan can’t for-
get that moment. It was the ﬁ  rst of many little league accomplishments that eventually set 
Alex on a path for major league stardom. 
“He was just so happy,” she said, “because 
he got to play, and he had a good time.”
While that was Faedo’s ﬁ  rst formal baseball 
experience, it wasn’t his introduction to the 
game. That came as a 2-year-old in his back-yard.
Faedo’s father, Orlando Faedo, had played or 
coached baseball for much of his life, and he 
wanted to introduce his son to the game early. 
So he bought a black plastic bat with former ma-jor leaguer Wade Boggs’ name emblazoned on the barrel to play wifﬂ  e ball.
For hours, Orlando tossed the wifﬂ  e balls to Alex, with the rhythmic whack, whack, whack of plastic meeting plastic serving as the soundtrack of their afternoons together. 
Orlando himself was a baseball player, 
though he was never taught the game by his parents. He just loved sports, playing whatever was in season — baseball, basketball, football, etc. — when he was a kid. 
He played baseball at Hillsborough Commu-
nity College and St. Leo University, where he studied physical education. He wanted to play in the pros like his cousin, Lenny Faedo, a ﬁ  rst round pick on the Minnesota Twins in the 1978 draft who played ﬁ  ve years in the majors. But Orlando never made it. 
Instead, he decided to stay around the game 
by coaching, both in high schools and with his son.
Alex’s mom, meanwhile, found another way 
to enjoy sports with Alex.
Whenever she would take him to their com-
munity pool or their pool at home, he never wanted to go in the water. Instead, he just want-ed to toss a spongy pool ball colored various shades of highlighter back and forth.
Alex and his mom did this for years, con-
stantly playing a game to see how many times they could throw it back and forth without 
dropping it. 
“I always think back to that and think, ‘Oh, 
I guess all kids like to do that,’” Donovan said. 
“But then when I had my second son, I realized that most kids who go to the pool just wanna play in the pool. 
“He was never like that.”She also said she’s never caught him lying. 
When he was in kindergarten, he would get in the car and announce he’d gotten in trouble be-fore anyone asked. 
He played video games, lived in a cluttered 
bedroom covered in sports memorabilia and competed in every sport he could. And some-times, when it had just rained and thin pud-
dles dotted the nearby Westchase Golf Course 
like freckles, Faedo and his friends would ride through the grass on skimboards. 
But as Alex grew, so did his involvement in 
baseball. 
His dad remembers bringing him to games 
at UF’s McKethan Stadium. The head coach at Tampa’s Alonso High School, Orlando remem-
bers one time when they came up to watch his 
former pitcher, Tommy Toledo, play for the Gators. 
Just before the national anthem, Orlando 
told Alex to go stand with Toledo on the ﬁ  eld, as many kids were doing. 
Alex shook his head.
He was never shy when it came to his feel-
ings about the game, though. 
His mom remembers one time when he was 
about 12 and the family was packing for vaca-
tion. Alex had to have his glove with him. No matter where the family went, he always had to throw. So his mom tossed the glove into the car, immediately noticing the look of terror on Alex’s face. 
“Mom!” he yelled. “What?” she answered. “You can’t just throw my glove in there like 
that!”
“It’s a baseball glove…”“You can’t just throw it around like that! I 
had it exactly like I wanted.”
That moment leads to jokes to this day, with 
Donovan always making sure to treat her son’s 
gloves like “a ﬁ  ne piece of china.”
Alex took his performance on the diamond 
just as seriously, playing for some of the state’s top teams in some of the nation’s top tourna-
ments by the time he got to high school. How-ever, he didn’t pitch much. His body wasn’t developed enough, his dad said, until halfway 
through high school. 
Instead, Alex, whose little league teammate 
Jake Clark described as “tall and awkward,” 
played mostly ﬁ  rst base. 
He didn’t hit a home run until he was 10. But Donovan still keeps that ball — along 
with about 50 others — in a closet with too many trophies to count along with various plaques and ribbons. She’s still constantly add-ing to the collection, with some of the balls com-ing from UF and elsewhere. 
Many of the others are game balls awarded 
to Faedo for the standout performances of his youth, which he earned despite Orlando’s de-scription of his son as an “average Joe.”
“I probably have a hundred of them,” Alex 
said. “Like, not saying I did that well. I just probably have a couple of them sitting around.”
•   •   •
Alex watched his teammate sprint around 
the bases. 
Trailing by a run and down to its last three 
outs, José Fernandez had put Alonso ahead in the top of the seventh inning. Then, in the bot-
tom on the seventh, he went out and ﬁ  nished 
the opposition on the mound, propelling the Ra-vens to the state championship game. 
Alex looked on from the dugout. He was a freshman when Fernandez was a 
senior. But he modeled himself after Fernan-
dez’s passion, competitive spirit and, of course, 
his success. 
In addition to leading Alonso to the state 
championship, Fernandez had also set the single-game strikeout record (16) in the Tony Saladino Tournament, which pits Tampa’s best baseball programs against each other. 
Faedo broke that record with 17 in the ﬁ  rst 
start of his junior season. 
“He was happy,” Orlando said of his son 
besting Fernandez’s record, “but he wasn’t boasting about it.”
That combination of dominance and silence 
is something that Faedo still embraces today. 
Clark, for example, says that sometimes he’ll 
text Faedo about how well he threw in a game. 
“He’ll go like seven innings, no runs and 10 
K’s. I’ll text him and be like, ‘Dude, you looked awesome out there,’” Clark said. “He’ll be like, ‘Eh, I kinda let a few pitches get away.’”
Faedo’s roommate Dalton Guthrie, mean-
while, said Faedo regularly gloriﬁ  es opposing pitchers in the dugout but can’t recognize their traits in himself. 
“We’ll be watching a game and there’ll be a 
guy pitching, and he’ll be like, ‘Oh my gosh, this guy’s incredible,’” Guthrie said. “And I’m like, ‘He’s got the same stuff as you.’”
And Faedo himself gets visibly annoyed 
when asked about whether he enjoys attention from people for his baseball skills, though he’s quick to point out that people don’t often ask him. 
“I just don’t want people to try and be fake 
and just come up to me and try to ask about baseball and try to be like, ‘Oh, you’re doing good. I hear great things,’” Faedo said. “I just wanna say hi and go get my food.”
Comments and questions like these be-
came more common after his performance in the Saladino Tournament. That performance is also what put him on a path leading to UF, 
the school he always wanted to go to. But aside 
from perfecting his pitching, Alex also prepared for Florida in other ways. 
He was always watching games on TV, Clark 
said, trying to learn and improve. He was also 
the guy who would make other people ﬁ  nish 
runs when nobody was watching. And under Faedo’s father at Alonso, there were plenty of opportunities to run. 
Orlando didn’t tolerate taunting, mocking or 
misbehavior of any kid, whether on or off the ﬁ  eld, according to both Faedo and Clark. When asked how much he made his players run, his son described it as “a legal amount.”
“Obviously, in the moment, you’re like, ‘Oh 
man. This is crappy,’” Faedo said. “But when you’re done, you’re like, ‘All right, that was 
worth it.’”
•   •   •
Alex Faedo is late. 
He’s shufﬂ  ing across the concrete ﬂ  oor un-
derneath McKethan Stadium with his heels sticking out of his shoes, grinding his metal cleats. Eventually he stops, tying triple knots in 
both shoes before heading toward the team’s 
preseason photoshoot. 
“Just now,” Guthrie explains, “he got here 
late because he was volunteering over at the elementary school.”
But out of hearing range of his roommate 
thanks to the hiss of nearby pressure cleaners, Guthrie is struggling to explain something else. He’s asked about his favorite memories 
involving Alex. 
“Hah,” he says, “Goodness.”
He giggles. “Lemme think.”“There’s a lot,” he says before letting out a 
loud laugh. 
“I don’t know which ones are appropriate.”He eventually settles on their trips to Asia 
and Cuba as part of the Team USA baseball program, concealing whatever he was laugh-ing about. He also points out that while people know Alex as the superstar baseball player — the one who could fulﬁ  ll his little league dreams and go ﬁ  rst overall — he’s not just about base-ball. 
“Everyone sees... the baseball side,” Guthrie 
said, “but there’s more to him than that.”
To Guthrie, the “more than that” starts with 
Faedo’s interest in working with kids and giving back to younger players. Alex donates many of his old gloves to current Alonso players. 
There’s also his interest in the outdoors. He 
loves to go to places like Ginnie Springs with his friends. 
And then there’s the pair’s obsession with 
video games.
Alex keeps two PlayStations in his room at 
the Keys Residential Complex, which he’ll use to beat Guthrie in NBA2K and lose to him in Call of Duty. 
“All we do is sit at home and play video 
games and play baseball,” Guthrie said. “That’s our life.” 
Other than the PlayStations, Guthrie said 
there’s really nothing remarkable about Alex’s room. It’s basic, he said, with nothing on the walls and little clutter. 
It contrasts his childhood bedroom, where 
Faedo kept bobbleheads, signed baseball bats and posters. 
Clark remembers one of those posters — the 
one just to the side of his bed — more than the rest. It’s a portrait of the Tampa Bay Rays locker room with jerseys hanging throughout. All of them were the star players of Alex’s youth, ex-cept one: No. 7, Faedo. 
“Looking back on it, it’s like, holy shit,” 
Clark said. “He is gonna be there. He’s gonna have that jersey.”OPENINGDAY
Editor Ethan Bauer   Assistant Editor Matt Brannon 
Alligator, Friday, February 17, 2017
Alligator File Photo
Alex Faedo pitches during Florida’s win over Missouri on March 20 at McKethan Stadium. Faedo didn’t pitch regularly until his junior year of high school. 
A MILLION-DOLLAR ARM
After a life spent on the diamond, Faedo could go irst overall in MLB Draft
GAME INFO
• What: Florida baseball 
vs. William and Mary
• When: T onight at 7
• Where: McKethan Stadium 
FLORIDA’S OPENING DAY ALINGNMENT
Deacon Liput2B
Mike RiveraCChristian Hicks1B
Jonathan India3B
DHNelson MaldonadoRFBlake ReeseCF
Austin LangworthyLF
Dalton GuthrieSS
P
Alex Faedo
JJ Schwarz