We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorWho was Florida’s best coach 
of 2016-17?
See which coaches were deemed the best by 
alligatorSports this season, pg. 18Deadly bike crash 
Gainesville man killed in crash on Northwest 13th Street, pg. 5
UF alumnus, “Triple Gator” leaves legacy
His family is working to create a scholarship in his honor, pg. 13VOLUME 111 ISSUE 157 THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
As second baseman Deacon Li-
put shifted to his left, corralled the 
ground ball and ﬁ  red it over to ﬁ  rst base, Florida’s dugout erupted with cheers like it never had before.
UF’s baseball team has won a lot 
of big games over the course of the program’s history, but nothing com-pares to what it accomplished this week: its ﬁ  rst ever national champi-onship.
The Gators defeated LSU 6-1 in 
Game 2 of the College World Series Finals on Tuesday night, sweeping 
the Tigers to cap off a season Flor-
ida fans will long remember for its stellar pitching, a mid-season turn-around, an SEC championship and a dramatic NCAA Tournament run.
UF went 10-3 in the national post-
season, surviving three winner-take-all games against Bethune-Cookman in the NCAA Regional, Wake Forest 
in the NCAA Super Regional and 
TCU in the CWS to set up a ﬁ  nals showdown against LSU.The Gators then did something 
they hadn’t done in 103 years of existence, earning back-to-back vic-tories on college baseball’s biggest 
stage to clinch their ﬁ  rst NCAA title 
and Florida’s 39th overall national championship among its 21 varsity sports.
“I’m just overwhelmed with emo-
tions for our players,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release on Tues-day night. “They’re the ones that put in all the hard work and have to 
juggle the classroom and all that type 
of thing… I’m just really happy for them.”
While O’Sullivan received contri-
butions from nearly everyone on the roster this season, it’s hard to imag-ine UF going as far as it did without Friday night ace Alex Faedo and closer Michael Byrne.
Faedo, who was drafted 18th 
overall by the Detroit Tigers earlier this month, went 9-2 with a 2.26 ERA in 123.2 innings pitched during his junior campaign. The Tampa na-tive was especially on point during the NCAA Tournament, where he posted 44 strikeouts and a 0.33 ERA in his ﬁ  ve starts on the mound.
Byrne, on the other hand, was 
electric for the Gators out of the back end of their bullpen. The 6-foot-2 
right-hander registered a 1.67 ERA 
and a single-season program-record 19 saves.
“Their pitching has been the 
key to our success all season long,” O’Sullivan said on June 5 about the two players. “They’ve really stepped up and been big for us.”
It wasn’t always smooth sailing 
for Florida at the beginning of the year, however.
UF began the season 13-8 due to 
a woeful offensive start from its line-up. The Gators sat dead last in the SEC with a .240 team batting aver-age and were tied for the fewest runs scored in the conference with 92.
Florida’s lack of production at 
the plate particularly hit rock bottom during the weekend of March 19 when it was swept by Auburn in a three-game series to open up league play. UF was outscored by the Ti-gers 22-9 over that three-day span, sending itself to the cellar of the SEC standings with an 0-3 record for the ﬁ  rst time since 2009.
But like all great teams do, the 
Gators fought back.
Catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz 
began to hit his stride offensively in the second half of the year by belting nine home runs after April 14, and senior outﬁ  elder Ryan Larson came out of nowhere to bat .339 during the conference season.
Florida ultimately won 26 of its ﬁ  -
nal 32 games in 2017 behind its reju-venated lineup and efﬁ  cient pitching 
staff. The late season run not only 
earned the Gators a national cham-pionship, it earned them an SEC title as well.
UF went 16-3 over its last 19 con-
tests against league opponents, go-ing all the way from worst to ﬁ  rst in the conference standings and clinch-ing its 11th SEC regular season title 
in program history.
“There was a sense of together-
ness in the locker room and knowing 
we’ll never give up,” O’Sullivan said on the team overcoming adversity. “We got progressively better. We ﬁ  g-ured out what we needed to do to score runs.”Florida is losing Larson and relief 
pitcher Frank Rubio to graduation next season, and Faedo, Schwarz, Liput, shortstop Dalton Guthrie, re-
liever David Lee and catchers Mike 
Rivera and Mark Kolozsvary were also taken in the MLB Draft earlier this month.
However, a good portion of the 
Gators nucleus will be back, includ-ing Byrne, Brady Singer, Jackson Kowar, Nelson Maldonado, Jona-than India, Austin Langworthy, Ty-
ler Dyson and Garrett Milchin.
While the future looks bright for 
Florida moving forward, O’Sullivan 
knows he can’t get ahead of himself. After 103 years, his program ﬁ  nally has its ﬁ  rst national championship under its belt. For now, he just wants to enjoy it.
“I think Florida baseball is in 
great shape right now,” O’Sullivan said. “But I don’t want to talk about winning another one already. It’s hard enough.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org NOTHING LIKE THAT FIRST TIME 
Associated Press 
Gators baseball claims ﬁ  rst national championship
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at 
UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-
lar street artist. In “Layers,” 
Kanishcheva explores abstract 
photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in-
clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
‘It Comes at Night’ at the 
Hippodrome“It Comes at Night,” a new horror film, will play at the Hippodrome State Theatre to-day, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, 
July 5 and July 6. The film 
follows Joel Edgerton, who learns the evil stalking his family home may only be a 
prelude to horrors that come 
from within. Secure within a desolate home as an unnatural threat terrorizes the world, the tenuous domestic order he has 
established with his wife and 
son is put to the ultimate test with the arrival of a desperate young family seeking refuge. 
For more information or to 
buy tickets, visit thehipp.org/event/it-comes-at-night.
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista Joshua Broadhead, who goes by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for 
Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot 
Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@gmail.com.
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
De Lions of JahThe City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
department is hosting its an-nual series of free, family-friendly concerts in downtown Gainesville. Featuring local and regional musicians, the 
2017 “Free Fridays” concert 
series will perform each Friday night from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. The series includes a diverse selection of musical genres, 
with a mix of returning audi-
ence favorites and bands new to the series. This Friday’s show features the reggae band 
De Lions of Jah. The con-
cert is hosted on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., and is free and open to the public. 
For more information, visit 
gnvculturalseries.org/free-fri-days-concert-series.
Creative B Movie Series: 
‘Things to Come’Friday nights in July, the Florida Museum of Natural History and Creative B will 
host free movie screenings and 
explore the balance between science and art. In honor of the museum’s 100th anniversary, 
this year’s films will incorpo-
rate a time-travel element and include a discussion with our expert panel. On July 7, the museum will screen “Things to 
Come” from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
and have a panel discussion with scientists, artists and spe-cial effects experts. For more 
information, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/event/creative-b-things-to-come.
Free yoga at Devil’s Millhopper
Flow Space yoga studio will 
host a free yoga class on the 
first Saturday of every month 
from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. at Devil’s 
Millhopper Geological State 
Park, located at 4732 Millhopper Road. The yoga is for all levels, 
and the group will meet in the 
parking lot before heading to a 
spot. The class is free, except 
for the cost of entrance into the park, which is $4 per car or 
$2 per pedestrian. Participants 
should bring a yoga mat, water 
bottle and towel, and it is rec-
ommended to show up 10 min-utes early. 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens 
guided tour
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens offers a guided tour of the 
gardens on the first Saturday 
of each month from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Non-members are charged regular admission, and members are admitted free of charge. The gardens are lo-
cated at 4700 SW 58th Drive. 
For more information, visit kanapaha.org.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
GatormaniaThe largest summer event on campus, Gatormania 2017, will be July 8 from noon to 3 
p.m. on the North Lawn. Start 
Summer B with free food, giveaways and live perfor-mances showcasing a variety of student organizations and 
campus partners. The event 
is hosted by the Involvement Team, the ambassadors of the Department of Student 
Activities and Involvement. 
For more information, visit studentinvolvement.ufl.edu.
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event in July and August. The gallery features hundreds 
of quality, handcrafted fine 
arts and crafts created by re-gional artists. The event will be held at the gallery, located at 201 SW Second Place. For 
more information, call 352-
378-1383 or visit artisansguild-gallery.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  90° LOW  73°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 157THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Ben Anderson / Alligator Staff
Above: Head coach Kevin O’Sullivan, joined by 6-year-old daughter 
Payton, is interviewed by Jeff Cardozo at Tuesday’s championship 
celebration at McKethan Stadium.
Right: Florida cheerleaders pose in front of the newly acquired na-
tional championship trophy, which sits next to the SEC regular sea-son championship trophy that UF baseball won in May.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite UF’s Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs’s effort to em-
phasize transparency surrounding the upcoming renovations to the Institute of Black Culture and “La Casita,” the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, some students feel like they’ve been left in the dark.
Christopher Wilde, a UF mi-
crobiology and cell science senior, made it clear at a Wednesday af-
ternoon meeting that he felt the 
voices of students are not being accounted for. Having been an am-bassador for La Casita for ﬁ  ve se-mesters, the 21-year-old joined the advisory board to help make deci-sions and oversee the renovations of his beloved institute.
Wilde said the MCDA staff has 
been butting heads with some members of the advisory board re-garding what to do with the build-ing design of the institutes located on University Avenue.
At The Institutes Project Update 
Webinar held at the Reitz Union on Wednesday, Wilde explained that in the upcoming renovations, the MCDA staff wants to join both the IBC and La Casita together, transforming it into a “U” shape — 
which would essentially make it a 
multicultural building as opposed to honoring the two separate races.
At an advisory committee meet-
ing about two weeks ago, Wilde said he presented information to the MCDA staff and the rest of the advisory board explaining the sig-niﬁ  cant history of La Casita and 
why a “U” shaped building would 
not be in the best interest of stu-dents.
Wilde, who thinks his concerns 
were overlooked by the MCDA staff, said when he suggested a sur-vey be sent out to students to get a true quantitative opinion of the issue, the idea was shot down. He 
said the MCDA was only interested 
in a qualitative survey that stated pros and cons of the building de-sign.
“It’s clear that administration 
has their own desires for what they want, and they’re not really listen-ing to students,” Wilde said.
Wilde said he thinks combin-
ing the two institutes together would be detrimental to the future generations of students and could potentially affect the retention and recruitment rate of those who are either Black or Latinx.
“If the process is not transpar-
ent, the administration can’t design 
a building that properly serves stu-
dents,” Wilde said. “Because they are not involving students.”
During the meeting Wednesday, 
Wilde said members of the advisory board were unaware of the agenda and were taken aback when they saw their presentation of the his-tory of La Casita displayed without 
the inclusion of their renovation 
concerns.
Of the students at the meeting, 
only one student on the advisory committee agreed with the MCDA staff about the “U” shape building. That student gave the presentation at the meeting Wednesday, Wilde said. He also added that this stu-
dent, who has only been an am-
bassador for La Casita for one se-mester, is very friendly with MCDA administration.
Wilde stood up in front of the 
crowd to criticize the lack of trans-parency and said the advisory com-mittees were “a facade,” and the administration is claiming that they 
want to hear the public’s opinion 
but will not take it under advise-ment if it does not align with their views.“All of this, if you haven’t no-
ticed, is clearly a show,” Wilde said.
Since taking the position of ex-
ecutive director of the MCDA in April, Will Atkins said he is com-mitted to ensuring the department increases transparency and engage-ment.
In an attempt to do so, Atkins 
said the MCDA formed an advi-sory committee, provided regular updates on social media, created 
an institute update listserv and 
launched a public dashboard on their website with a timeline — all to increase transparency in regard to the renovations of the institutes.
The meeting itself was 
livestreamed so anyone could tune in.
“We appreciate everyone’s com-
mitment to the success of MCDA,” Atkins said to the crowd at the be-ginning of the meeting.
Attendees were able to submit 
questions they had regarding the renovation on an index card, which Atkins read and answered aloud at the meeting.
Atkins did not speak out against 
the claims Wilde made when voic-ing his opinion about the transpar-ency of the MCDA. Instead, Atkins thanked him for his feedback.Toward the end of the meeting, 
people in the crowd continued to voice their opinions, mostly in a negative fashion. Atkins urged the 
crowd to behave in a civil manner, 
and after a few minutes he con-cluded the meeting.
MCDA administration has not 
given a clear answer regarding the design of the building.
After Wilde had expressed his 
discontent with the “U” shaped plans, Nicole Nichols, one of the 
architects for the project, stood at 
the podium to applaud the univer-sity for considering public opinion.
“You guys should be proud 
that the time and money is being spent making sure your voices are heard,” Nichols said.
Nichols said at this point, the 
outcome of the project has not 
been ﬁ  nalized.
Wilde said the architect should 
have been unbiased in regard to 
the design of the building — but Wednesday, Wilde said Nichols said the “U” shaped building was the best option.
“With all due respect, it’s not 
her place to tell me what’s impor-
tant,” Wilde said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
Tensions ﬂ  are over UF’s Black, Hispanic Institute renovations
STUDENTS AND MCDA 
STAFF DISAGREED OVER 
RENOVATION PLANS.THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After slipping on hydraulic oil acciden-
tally spilled by a truck on Northwest 13th 
Street on Tuesday afternoon, a Gainesville 
bicyclist was killed.
It was his 57th birthday.
At about 1 p.m., David P. Fitzgerald was 
riding north on the 1100 block of Northwest 13th Street, near Ofﬁ  ce Depot and Apple-bee’s, when he approached a U-Haul-type 
truck, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias 
wrote in an email.
Fitzgerald, who was traveling on the 
street near the curb, rode near the truck 
when it spilled a ﬁ  ve-gallon bucket of hy-
draulic oil onto the roadway, Tobias said.
Witnesses told police that Fitzgerald rode 
into the liquid not knowing it was oil, caus-ing him to slip off his bicycle and fall into the 
path of the large trailer attached to the back 
of the truck.
The truck passed Fitzgerald as he fell, but 
the attached trailer struck him head-on, To-
bias said. After the crash, the driver of the truck stayed in an attempt to aid Fitzgerald.
In response to the crash, Gainesville Po-
lice converted the four-lane roadway into 
two lanes until about 3 p.m.
Fitzgerald was transported to UF Health 
Shands Hospital, where he died not long af-ter the crash, Tobias said.
Fitzgerald was the second Gainesville bi-
cyclist to be killed by fatal car crashes in the 
past two months, Tobias said.
On April 28, just before midnight, 
44-year-old Gainesville resident Zachary 
William House was riding his bicycle on 
the same street — Northwest 13th Street — 
when witnesses said a BMW, which seemed to be racing another car, crashed into the bicyclist. Emergency personnel pronounced House dead on the scene, according to Al-
ligator archives.
House was crossing the intersection at 
2500 NW 13 St., less than two miles north 
along the same street where the truck trailer 
struck Fitzgerald on Tuesday.  
“This instance involved such a myriad of 
different factors that was almost unimagi-
nable,” Tobias said, speaking of Fitzgerald’s death. “Bicyclists choosing to ride on major 
roadways need to ride defensively.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgGNV bicyclist killed in crash 
with oil-carrying trucker
THIS IS THE SECOND FATAL 
CRASH INVOLVING BICYCLISTS 
IN THE PAST TWO MONTHS.By Kianna Brown 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s Martin Luther King Jr. Mul-
tipurpose Center will serve as a hurricane 
shelter in 2018.
The shelter will be available to all Alach-
ua County residents and will be renovated 
with a $200k grant from the Florida Divi-
sion of Emergency Management.
District 1 City Commissioner Charles 
Goston reached out to Alachua County and 
the City of Gainesville about a year ago to 
discuss his concerns about the hurricane 
shelter on the east side of Gainesville, said 
Chip Skinner, an assistant public informa-tion ofﬁ  cer for Gainesville. 
“Residents of the east side of Gainesville 
have been limited in the number of shelters that are available during an emergency,” Goston said.
The ease of use and location were the 
main concerns for ﬁ  nding a new hurricane 
shelter, Skinner said. 
He said the county usually has to wait 
for approval from the school board to open 
shelters because nine out of the 11 current shelters are schools. With the center, they don’t need approval.
“With it not being involved with the 
school board, it’s much easier for us to open that as a shelter,” Skinner said. “If we need 
to shelter additional people, it’s not affect-ing a school, for instance.” 
He said Alachua County and Gainesville 
do not have a contractor for renovations 
yet because they have to do an engineering study ﬁ  rst. 
He said the engineering study will help 
Gainesville and Alachua County determine 
if the renovations they’ve proposed are 
needed. These include window screens, hardened doorways, electrical work and minor structural improvements.
The ﬁ  nal cost of the project will not be 
determined until an engineering study is complete, with work to begin shortly after, Skinner said.
He said once renovations are complete, 
the facility will be available for wind-related emergencies and as a post-storm shelter. 
Alachua County determines when the 
shelters open, Skinner said. The changes will bring the building into compliance with FDEM and Federal Emergency Management Agency standards. 
He said Alachua County and Gainesville 
do not currently have plans to open more 
hurricane shelters.
“I am happy that my advocacy on behalf 
of our citizens contributed to the city receiv-
ing this state award to harden the Martin Luther King Jr. center for use in emergen-cies, so that citizens in District 1 will have another close-by option for a safe haven,” Goston said.MLK Multipurpose Center to 
become emergency shelterThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORGuest Column
I recall a conversation I had with my dad in 
which he reflected on his experience in school as a child. He vividly remembers the school administration in the early 1960’s conducting drills in which he and his classmates would 
practice crouching down under their desks in the event of a nuclear blast.
The timeline of my dad’s recollections made 
sense to me. Not long after the conclusion of World 
War II, the American public developed an intense fear of political subversion, cultural erosion — even complete atomic destruction by the USSR. National leaders 
launched decadeslong witch hunts for Soviet operatives and sympathizers in a fit of terror collectively called the Red Scare. Anyone deemed un-American faced trial before an unconsti-tutional investigative group called the House Un-American Activities Committee.
It’s easy to look back and think, “How could people live in 
such fear from such overt propaganda?” Hindsight is 20/20, 
and nationalism is a powerful drug. It’s also important to re-
member the many people of the Cold War era who risked their reputations and wrap sheets to combat the stream of disinfor-mation which dominated the day.
So here’s my question for us in 2017: Is anybody really 
buying what media pundits are still droning on about concern-ing Russia? Yes Russia, that former Soviet state which hid in every American’s closet for at least a third of the last century, and now the nation which supposedly rigged the largest  elec-
tion of a government with the most expensive national intel-
ligence infrastructure in the world.
Ideally, we are supposed to be experiencing so much in-
dignation against another country that we forget the content of the very emails Russia supposedly leaked: that Democratic National Committee staffers were actively working to rig the Democratic primary in former Secretary of State Hillary Clin-ton’s favor.
We’re also supposed to forget the three men who were 
mysteriously found dead within three weeks of the leaks. These men were Seth Rich, a DNC staffer, Shawn Lucas, a filmmaker who filed a complaint of fraud on behalf of U.S. Sentor Bernie Sanders supporters and John Ashe, a former U.N. General Assembly president who was scheduled to lead meetings investigating a Clinton campaign donor’s financial records days before his death.  Nevertheless, some news networks have 
found that revamping the Cold War boosts ratings 
more than updating an old politician’s body count. 
For almost six months now, I’ve felt like I 
stepped into a time machine set to the 50’s, where the recipe for public opinion had two main ingredi-ents; bogeymen and sheer repetition from popular 
political and media figureheads. If only I could get back to the present where older people had learned from past decades and college students had learned from their advanced placement 
history classes that our beloved nation and her politicians 
have a horrendous track record of red herrings and straight-up lies, and that people who profit from fear and jingoism have taken pages from the same old dusty play book for almost a century. But as expected, many people are now calling for outright war with Russia, and it’s painfully ironic.
According to the LA Times, and Dov Levin, a political sci-
entist at Carnegie Mellon University, the U.S. has attempted to influence 81 foreign presidential elections in more than 20 
nations between 1946 and 2000. Keep in mind, this doesn’t 
include non-presidential elections, military coups, overthrows of incumbent politicians, currency manipulations, embargoes, terror plots and the rest of our empire’s tactics to micro-man-age the world. It also doesn’t include the propping up and sub-
sequent overthrows of Saddam Hussein, Muammar Gaddafi, 
Hosni Mubarak and other leaders of Middle Eastern countries 
since 2000.
Meanwhile, for most Americans just the thought of other 
nations doing to the U.S. what the U.S. does to the rest of the 
world on a regular basis is incomprehensible, and history is 
set to repeat itself.
According to some research, however, millennials are 
more intelligent, think more critically and are more skeptical of official narratives than past generations. I certainly hope so, because I envision a generation that won’t be duped by war criminals anymore. I envision a generation that refuses to crouch under their desks for no reason.There’s nothing new under the political sun
Editorial
Health care is a luxury 
many can’t afford
Twenty-two million. Over the next two decades, 22 million Americans are expected to lose their health insurance un-der the proposed U.S. Senate Republican health care bill. 
Since it’s implementation, Republicans have been eager 
to repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as 
“Obamacare.” During his campaign, President Donald Trump re-peatedly promised that repealing and replacing Obamacare would be a main concern for him once he was elected. Since his election, Republicans have been hard at work trying to do just that. 
Unfortunately, the plan for the GOP’s health care bill that was 
released Monday doesn’t exactly have Americans jumping for joy. In fact, according to a poll released by NPR, only 17 percent of Americans approve of the bill. What’s more startling is the fact that although many recognize the bill is a train wreck, it still might 
get passed. Senate Republicans are eager to see Obamacare re-
pealed, no matter the cost.
The Congressional Budget Office stated that 22 million Ameri-
cans would be without health insurance over the next 20 years. They expect 15 million to be uninsured by 2018. On a positive note, the legislation would decrease federal deficits by a total of $321 billion over a decade. But is a lower deficit worth the health of American citizens? 
What we find troubling is just how out of touch most conserva-
tives are when it comes to the cost of health care. Most conserva-tives want to see Obamacare replaced at whatever cost, and many have no idea what health care actually costs without insurance.
Tomi Lahren, a notorious right-wing icon, said in an interview 
with Marie Claire magazine Wednesday that she doesn’t under-stand why women can’t afford birth control. She said although her birth control is free under her insurance, without insurance, it would cost only $9. She genuinely believes all birth control costs only $9. Without insurance, most forms of birth control cost more 
than $100. Even with insurance, many women are still paying 
upward of  $40 or $50 to get their birth control. In a perfect world, Lahren is right. Most women can afford $9 a month. Unfortunate-ly, she is living in a state of delusion, and her case is a rare one.
Although Lahren’s blunder is just a one-minute example of the 
misconception many conservatives have about the cost of health care, it serves as a startling example of their reality. Without ser-vices like Medicare and Medicaid, most Americans are out of luck. A visit to the emergency room, for example, costs more than 
$1,000 if a patient were to pay out of pocket without insurance. A 
check-up at the dentist costs nearly $300. A visit to a primary-care doctor for a checkup typically costs more than $200 without insur-ance and often about $50 even when you are insured.
These prices are simply what it would cost for a healthy Ameri-
can. This does not consider the cost of freak accidents that could require emergency surgery or overnight hospital visits. This does not consider the cost of serious illnesses someone may need treat-ment for. This does not consider maternity costs for a pregnant 
woman. This does not consider the cost of medications a person 
may need. This does not consider the cost of visits to specialized doctors like a dermatologist or a gynecologist. This does not con-sider the cost of visits to a psychologist for someone who is men-tally ill. This does not consider the cost of staying alive.
For Americans living in poverty, health care is a luxury, even 
though it is a necessity. Those fortunate enough to have never lived without health care have difficulty understanding what it’s like to live without it. Should this new health care bill pass, mil-
lions would be forced to live without something that should be a 
basic necessity. We can only hope senate leaders question wheth-er their bargain rights for repealing Obamacare is truly worth it. Is it worth engineering the lives of the 22 million who will be unin-sured? The 15 million? We say no, and we can only hope Senate leaders will say the same.
Robert Carroll
opinions@alligator.orgUWire
On June 13, millions of people turned 
on their TVs and their Facebook livestreams to watch Attorney Gen-eral Jeff Sessions testify regarding his knowledge of the 2016 Russian 
hackings and the ﬁ  ring of former FBI Direc-tor James Comey in front of the Senate Intel-ligence Committee. Initially, the hearing was supposed to be private and only between the committee and the attorney general, but it was later revealed that Sessions wanted to have the hearing before the public because it was “important for the American people to hear the truth directly from him.”
Fortunately or unfortunately, the hearing 
actually portrayed Sessions in an even more problematic manner than before, not be-cause he said something scintillating — but because he didn’t say much of anything. For any questions regarding conversations with President Donald Trump, Sessions declined to discuss anything under an unspeciﬁ  ed policy of “protecting” Trump’s right to assert execu-
tive privilege. Sessions either did not recall or 
ﬂ  at-out denied any meetings with Russian of-ﬁ  cials at the Mayﬂ  ower Hotel during campaign events,and aggressively denied any nefarious motive behind his failure to initially disclose meetings with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Several members of the committee tried asking him the same question in differ-ent ways, but Sessions always gave the same 
answer, which proved from frustrating to infu-
riating for committee members.
Many senators felt that Sessions was dig-
ging a bigger hole for himself rather than just giving a straightforward answer to a simple question: Was he or was he not involved in or aware of Russian meddling in the election? It appeared that Sessions was merely ﬁ  lling the time and unwilling to tell the committee about 
what he knew regarding Trump and his cam-
paign’s dealings with Russia.Outside of this investigation, Sessions has 
been accused of several stances that are not considered morally correct, such as allegations of racism going back to the late ‘80s and sup-porting Trump’s travel ban, which prevents 
citizens of six Muslim-majority countries from 
entering the U.S. In fact, in his recent testimony he claimed that Trump’s executive order of the banning of citizens from these countries was “well within his lawful authority” — despite the ban currently being blockaded by two le-gal circuits and on the Supreme Court’s docket — and that nothing seemed to be wrong with how he was handling potential threats of ter-
rorism in the U.S.
Let it be known that no other president 
since the ‘50s has taken matters of national se-curity to this level of extremism. It is illegal and 
immoral to prevent tens of thousands of inno-cent people from entering the country, whether they aim to pursue the American dream or sim-ply visit. Sessions does not think the president 
has crossed the lines of his executive privilege, 
a stance which may prove to pit him against the highest court in the nation.
These are deﬁ  nitely interesting times we 
are living in. Increasingly, political culture has morphed to become popular culture as well, and subgroups of people have been unapolo-getically cruel or just downright hateful toward others for trivial matters such as the color of 
their skin or the creeds they ascribe to. Ses-
sions is one of those unapologetic people, and not because he is an alleged racist or poten-tially corrupt in the eyes of many Americans. Rather, because he has the audacity to sit in front of the Senate, comprised of some of the highest-ranking lawmakers in our country, and assert an executive privilege of silence that he 
has no authority to unilaterally yield; Silence, 
as well as convenient forgetfulness and con-ﬂ  icts with Comey’s testimony, which lends it-self to public confusion at best and increased suspicion and mistrust at worst. 
The man’s sole duty is to be the representa-
tive of U.S. law, and if what he is representing is withholding information, internal legal con-ﬂ  icts and allegedly compromising the election, 
then does that really inspire conﬁ  dence?
A version of this column by Nehal Vyas 
originally ran in Technique.
THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ hearing speaks volumes about Trump
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
401 NE 23rd Ave-Near Main St.
(Next to TB Goods Pawn)
Monday - Saturday 11 am-3pm
gainesvilleramen.com
tasty ramen at great pricestasty ramen at great prices
$1 OFF 
WITH THIS COUPON
Please contact us at  352-528-9888 or 
info@willistonanimalgroup.com or 
www.willistonanimalgroup.com Lucy, a Bulldog mix, medium 
sized, 10 years old. She’s mellow 
walks well on a leash. She will need to be an inside dog and possibly an only dog (she is selective with other dogs). She is afraid of storms and needs comfort as she ages. Lucy has a history of heart-worm and will need meds for the rest of her life. WAG will pay for her meds if you will give her the home she so desperately wants and needs.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Thirty-six-year-old Melissa 
Hawthorne stood in the rain 
with two of her children along-
side about a dozen protesters at 
the corner of Newberry Road and Northwest 62nd Street on Tues-day afternoon.
They stood to raise awareness 
against the Better Care Reconcili-ation Act of 2017, or BCRA. 
As a “working family,” Haw-
thorne said she and her husband 
are not able to afford health care 
for their three children right now, and BCRA will only further the struggle to pay medical expenses. 
“I think there’s a lot of people 
out there like me: working and still can’t afford access to health care,” Hawthorne said. 
Organized by Women’s March 
Gainesville, the protest aimed to illustrate how BCRA will be di-rectly targeting women’s health by making negative changes in 
regard to maternity care and con-
traceptives. 
Hawthorne said the legislation 
is attempting to remove maternity 
care, which ranges from $30,000 
to $50,000, as an “essential health beneﬁ  t,” meaning women will have to pay extra premiums for maternity coverage policies. 
This will also give men the 
opportunity to choose whether to have maternity care as part of their insurance, leaving women 
to pay the full cost, Hawthorne said.
Hawthorne added that she be-
lieves women should not be re-
sponsible for covering the cost of procreation because it takes both a man and a woman to do it. 
The legislation is also attempt-
ing to reduce access to birth con-trol by removing it from insur-ance, unless one could afford to pay the direct cost, Hawthorne 
said. 
“Essentially what this is doing 
to women is saying we will not help you not get pregnant, and 
we will not help cover the cost of 
your pregnancy,” she said. 
As policy director for Women’s 
March Gainesville, Hawthorne 
said the organization aims to host about three events each month to 
try and engage the community in 
their issues. 
Earlier this month, Women’s 
March Gainesville painted a mu-
ral on the 34th Street Wall il-
lustrating some of their political stances, and it was defaced with-in 24 hours, according to Alliga-tor archives. 
This protest is the ﬁ  rst event to 
be held since the defacement, and Hawthorne said she is grateful for the continued support and hope-
ful that more residents will take action within the community. 
“I really believe we’re only as 
strong as our weakest links as a 
country,” Hawthorne said. “We really want to inspire this conver-sation so that everybody can be forced to think about it and deter-
mine where they lie.”
Sophia Eikenberry, a 19-year-
old UF neurobiological sciences 
sophomore, said she joined the 
protest because BCRA personally 
affects her as a birth control user and, possibly, a future mother. 
“I really just want to get the 
word out and make sure people 
are aware of what is going on in 
our country right now,” Eiken-
berry said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
Women’s March Gainesville protests ‘Better Care’ Act
“I really believe we’re only as 
strong as our weakest links 
as a country.””
Melissa Hawthorne
Women’s March Gainesville 
Policy DirectorKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
‘Transformers: The Last Knight’
Why you should skip seeing the latest movie,  pg. 10Have a drink for the Harn
First Magnitude Brewing Company will host a fundraiser, pg. 12THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
MUSIC
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
High Dive will host a concert 
to honor Grammy-nominated 
musician Chris Cornell, who 
took his life in May.
The concert will be held Sat-
urday at 8 p.m. to raise aware-
ness for suicide prevention. 
Eight acts, including bands and 
solo artists, will be performing the entirety of Cornell’s cata-logue. 
Tickets for the concert cost $6 
in advance and $8 at the door. Money from these sales will ben-efit the Alachua County Friends of the Crisis Center after the cost 
of the basic production of the 
show is subtracted. Donations to the center will also be en-couraged, Pat Lavery, the events manager at High Dive, wrote in 
an email. 
When Lavery heard of Cor-
nell’s passing, he started putting 
together the idea for the tribute 
show, contacting more than 20 
musicians and bands. He said some people weren’t available to play or were intimidated by the 
idea of playing songs from Cor-
nell’s repertoire. Others readily agreed to perform and formed bands just for the sake of the show. Since Cornell’s career 
spanned several decades, his 
music touched different strains of musicians, and Lavery said anyone who asked to perform 
was allowed. 
As beloved musicians have 
passed away over the 
years, he and High Dive staff would talk about putting together 
different tribute con-
certs, but nothing ever came of those plans until now. A tribute for Cornell felt differ-
ent and more personal for him. 
“I was shocked, because 
Chris, to my knowledge, didn’t 
have the struggle with depres-
sion and substances that the oth-
ers did, or at least his struggles weren’t as public,” he said. High Dive is no stranger to 
raising money for local chari-ties. Annually, it averages more than $10,000 in money raised for various charities. Lavery said he 
knew this event had to benefit 
a local charity concerned with suicide prevention. He said he hopes the show would be benefi-cial in helping fans mourn Cor-
nell’s death as well. 
Through talking to people 
around Gainesville, Lavery land-
ed on the crisis center as the 
beneficiary of the concert. The 
center strives to serve the com-
munity by counsel-ing those who need help with their men-
tal health. Nancy Ro-
maine Maas, president of  the Alachua County Friends of the Crisis 
Center, said about 100 
volunteers staff a 24-hour crisis line and go 
out in care teams to aid in crises around the community. 
Maas started out as a volun-
teer in the ‘90s, passing through the roles of phone volunteer, care team consultant and asso-
ciate. Having experience with all these jobs and being on the 
board helps her understand the 
issues in the commu-
nity.
Attending events 
in the community and getting the word out 
is a large part of the 
prevention the cen-ter hopes to accom-plish. Maas said the 
increased attention that suicide 
seems to be getting now is “bit-tersweet.” She said she hopes this tribute will continue to break down some of the stigma 
surrounding mental health is-
sues. 
“I’m a firm believer that a 
lot of people don’t want to die; 
they just want the pain to stop. 
Whatever pain that is — mental, emotional or physical,” she said. 
Another way the center tries 
to ease the pain of those who 
are affected by suicide is by 
maintaining the Survivors of Sui-cide Memory Garden at Cofrin Nature Park, located on Eighth 
Avenue. At the garden, people 
can purchase bricks in memory of someone they lost to suicide. A commemorative brick will be placed for Cornell and paid for by money raised at the show. 
While High Dive is 
donating the venue, equipment and the majority of the pro-ceeds, Lavery said he 
is also donating his 
time in organizing and promoting the event. To him, the most ob-
vious reason for putting on the event is to celebrate the “rock god and (the) musical genius” Cornell was. 
“Rock stars are a dying breed. 
There may never be another like him. It’s a shame that we as a society don’t pay more tribute to people and artists when they are alive,” he said.
Maas is also a huge fan of Cor-
nell. She saw him twice in con-cert six months before he died. She said she hopes this tribute 
allows people to talk more open-
ly about mental illness instead of 
feeling ashamed. People who are affected by suicide often suffer in silence, Maas said. Because of the stigma surrounding it, the 
stages of grief tend to differ for 
those suffering since the subject matter is considered taboo.
The crisis center will be ta-
bling at the event with volun-teers available for counseling and providing information about resources in the community, like the crisis hotline, 352-264-
6789. Other organizations like 
Gainesville Peer Respite Center and the National Alliance on Mental Illness will be tabling as 
well.
Tribute, charity concert to honor musician Chris Cornell
Courtesy to the Alligator 
A concert to honor Grammy-nominated musician Chris Cornell will be held at High Dive on Saturday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $6 in 
advance or $8 at the door. 
 •   •   •
It’s a shame that we as a 
society don’t pay more tribute 
to people and artists when 
they are alive.
Pat Lavery
High Dive Events Coordinator
“I’m a irm believer that a lot of 
people don’t want to die; they 
just want the pain to stop.
Nancy Romaine Maas
Alachua County Friends of the 
Crisis Center PresidentThe “Transformers” movies 
were never critical darlings, with only the first film reaching a peak of 57 per-cent on Rotten Tomatoes. 
I’ll be the first to admit that I was never really a fan of these movies. The first one was enjoyable trash, but trash nonetheless. Meanwhile, 
the forthcoming sequels proved 
to be less-than-enjoyable trash, with only the third installment re-ally providing any real sense of fun 
about it, if only for its impressive 
use of 3-D. Beyond that, the third 
film was also a slog, albeit less of one than its predecessor, “Trans-formers: Revenge of the Fallen.”
With nearly every film coming 
close to, if not surpassing $1 billion at the box office, these films are practical gold mines for the studio. This doesn’t change the fact that 
critics and many audiences alike 
are now beginning to tire of the 
series, now entering its fifth install-ment with “Transformers: The Last Knight.”
Set after the events of “Trans-
formers: Age of Extinction,” we pick up on our new protagonist, Cade Yeager (Mark Wahlberg) as he navigates a world where Trans-
formers are now persecuted and 
hunted by the military. After being 
found by a service Transformer, Cade is taken to England where he meets Sir Edmund Burton (An-thony Hopkins), who also brings in Dr. Vivian Wembley (Laura Had-dock) to discuss the history of the Transformers and his plan to help preserve their future. Cade and Vivian learn that the Transformers have been on Earth since the Dark Ages, assisting King Arthur in es-tablishing the knights of the round table, as well as helping with other 
historical events like defeating the 
Nazis. In addition, many historical figures, including presidents, ac-tivists and even Harriet Tubman, 
helped the Transformers in their 
time. As Cade is deemed the last 
knight of the Transformers, and Vivian is revealed to be the last de-scendant of Merlin, the two must 
team up after Optimus Prime re-
turns from his mission at the end of 
“Transformers: Age of Extinction” corrupted by their creator, Quintes-sa, hell-bent on destroying Earth.
Yes, that is the plot of this film. 
No, I am not joking. The fact that these screenplays can pull forth more than $217 million from Para-mount Pictures for its production 
budget is just astounding to me.
At 149 minutes, “Transform-
ers: The Last Knight” is the short-
est film in the “Transformers” series since the first film, with its 
predecessor clocking in at a whop-
ping 165 minutes. That being said, 
this film is still long ... too long. I checked my watch quite a bit hop-ing that the movie would breeze by quickly in a barrage of extended ac-tion sequences, and while we did get those action sequences, edited haphazardly by a total of six cred-ited editors, the film still moved at a glacial pace.
“Transformers: The Last Knight” 
is yet another slog in the lengthy franchise that is “Transformers.” It’s almost clockwork at this point 
in how these films play out, with-
out any sort of deviation from the previous installments. It would ac-tually be possible to review every 
single film in the series in one re-
view, as they all seemingly blend 
together at a point. Incomprehensi-ble as ever, Michael Bay, the direc-tor of the film, seeks to take it even 
further to besmirch and brutalize 
history by including these dumba-- 
robots in them and still lead us to believe that the Transformers were new discoveries in the first film. 
Everything about this film is just 
inherently bad and with it being 
so lengthy, too, this film is much more of a test of patience than it is of fan service at this point. And 
the worst part is, I know this won’t 
be the end of this series if it con-
tinues to make large amounts of money. Like a wounded animal in the woods, the kindest thing to do 
at this point is to let it die on its 
own terms, please.
A version of this review by 
Hunter Heilman appeared in the 
Niner Times.10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERCourtesy to the Alligator
“Transformers: The Last Knight” was released on June 20 and is the franchise’s fifth installment.
Please Michael Bay, let ‘Transformers: The 
Last Knight’ be the last of its kindBy Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Flash back to January and 
you’d ﬁ  nd Nitti Gritti playing an 
opening set for DJ duo Bonnie X 
Clyde at Simons Nightclub. The Miami-based electronic dance 
music producer had only been creating music for about six 
months at that point but had al-
ready begun turning heads with 
his fresh take on bass music.  
Six months, a host of new re-
leases and a handful of shows 
later, Nitti Gritti is back in 
Gainesville, this time taking the 
headlining spot of Lucid Night-
life’s Summer B Kickoff concert. 
The show will take place Fri-
day from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. at 
Simons, located at 8 S. Main St. 
Tickets range from $10 to $20, 
and Florida-based artists Mär-SHen, Myth and Side Trackd will 
provide opening support. 
Nitti Gritti has experienced a massive amount of growth in 
only a year of producing. His 
newest song “Famous,” which 
was co-produced with EDM artist Jupe, has reached almost 200,000 
plays on SoundCloud since its re-
lease May 29. 
“‘Famous’ is a track I really 
expected to do well, but I had no idea it would really catch on how 
it has,” wrote Nitti Gritti, whose real name is Richard Mears, in an 
email.
Gritti said he has a few other 
releases planned for 2017, includ-ing a song released through Trap 
Nation, an online music sharing 
community, as well as a new re-
mix. 
As for his upcoming show, 
Gritti said fans “should expect a 
lot of bangers and throwbacks … and maybe a mosh pit or two.” 
Matt Collins, the owner and head promoter of Lucid Nightlife, said Lucid Nightlife as a whole is a big fan of Nitti Gritti’s “eclectic 
sound.” 
“We absolutely believe he 
is in the music business for the long run,” Collins said. “He has 
the entire skill set needed to be a 
highly successful and famous DJ 
in our opinion.” 
Gritti’s show is possible par-
tially because of an expanding Lucid Nightlife fan base. Collins said ticket sales for all of the com-pany’s shows have increased sig-
niﬁ  cantly, with a growing num-
ber of people coming from cities like Orlando and Tampa to catch 
shows in Gainesville. 
“The larger crowds have deﬁ  -
nitely given us room to bring 
more diverse and larger acts,” 
Collins said. “I would also say the 
scene has showed us that it can 
support more shows as well — 
clearly Gainesville likes to party.” 
Gritti is just one of many EDM 
acts that Lucid Nightlife has brought to Gainesville in 2017. 
Coming from performances at the 
Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival 
and Electric Daisy Carnival, Grit-
ti is sure to bring an impressive 
show to Gainesville. 
“It’s been crazy to see with the 
right music, branding and hard 
work how far a project can move in a year,” Gritti said of his stage 
persona’s success. “Just shows 
you it’s not impossible.”THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
Courtesy to the Alligator
Nitti Gritti will headline Lucid Nightlife’s Summer B Kickoff concert. The concert is Friday 
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Producer/DJ Nitti Gritti to perform at Simons Nightclub
MUSIC
“W e absolutely believe he is in the 
music business for the long run,”
Matt Collins
Lucid Nightlife Owner/Promoter
•   •   ••   •   •12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
1
1312111098765432The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 7.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
July 10 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on July 27 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTESCourtesy of the Alligator
First Magnitude Brewing Company will host a fundraiser to support 
the Harn Museum of Art today at 6 p.m.
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Spend your Thursday evening drinking 
beer, listening to music and eating pizza in support of art.
First Magnitude Brewing Company, a lo-
cally owned brewery located at 1220 SE Veitch St., will host a fundraiser today from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. in support of the Harn Museum of Art. The brewery is known throughout Gainesville for brewing creative beers of all kinds, from India pale ales to stouts.
“The membership drive is to get more 
awareness,” said Ben Guzman, the brewing company’s event coordinator. “Giving (the Harn) a new location to bring their message out and show everyone what they do over there.”
Guests are able to give a voluntary $20 do-
nation in exchange for a free pint, and Guzman said all donations are beneﬁ  ting the Harn’s ex-hibitions and programs.
“Art and community go hand and hand, 
there’s no way around it,” he said. “It is impor-tant to make sure that Gainesville is a vibrant 
community, so it’s an easy collaboration.”
Guzman said events hosted by the brew-
ing company are more approachable for 
Gainesville residents, offering a unique and 
relaxed atmosphere. Gainesville-based jazz/
pop fusion band 7th Terrace will be playing 
throughout the event.
“Craft breweries, especially ours, are 
known as relaxed places,” he said. “Beer tends 
to do that for people. That’s our mission — to 
make good beer and get people together.”
Humble Wood Fire, a local company that 
makes artisan pizzas from their mobile oven, will be in attendance at the event for catering. 
The event is open to the public, and there is 
no need to RSVP.First Magnitude Brewing Co. beneﬁ  ts the Harn MuseumTHURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
After a 33-year-old UF alumnus 
lost his two-year battle with brain 
cancer earlier this month, his fam-ily is working to ensure that his legacy as a “Triple Gator” lives on. 
Dr. Huy Huynh was a former 
Student Government cabinet direc-tor, a founding brother of Pi Delta Psi’s Sigma chapter and the ﬁ  rst 
Vietnamese-American student to 
be tapped by Florida Blue Key. He received both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from UF in addi-tion to a Doctor of Dental Medicine 
degree from UF’s College of Den-
tistry.
According to his friends, Huynh 
was the model of an involved and outgoing student.
“Huy was really one of those 
people who could really bring peo-ple together,” said Fernando Nin, one of Huy’s fraternity brothers. 
“Huy was the kind of person ev-
eryone knew if you were involved on campus.”
Huy’s brother, Hoang Huynh, 
said the family wanted to honor his 
memory by helping students who 
shared his same dream: to get a degree from the UF College of Den-tistry. After discussing it together, Hoang said his family decided the best way to celebrate Huy’s life would be to create a scholarship to the college in his name.
On June 22, with the help of 
Huy’s fraternity brothers, the Huynh family created and promot-ed a crowdfunding page to raise the money for the Huy D. Huynh Endowment Scholarship Fund. By 
Wednesday, only six days later, 
the family had raised $45,629, exceeding their original goal of $30,000. The endowment will al-low a scholarship named after him to give back to UF students.
“He has done so much for the 
community,” Hoang said. “He has inspired so many, and my brother 
deserves so much more.”
Due to the recency of the fu-neral, Huy’s family said they have 
yet to work out the speciﬁ  c details of the scholarship. So far, the only 
known information is that it will 
bear Huy’s name and be available for students in the UF College of Dentistry.
“We just knew from the begin-
ning we wanted to do a scholar-ship in his name,” Hoang said.
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@uﬂ  .edu
Family endows dentistry scholarship in alumnus’ memory
Courtesy to the Alligator
LEFT:   Dr. Huy Huynh stands next to Albert at a Gators basketball game. Huynh was a “Triple Gator, ” having received 
three degrees from the school. In addition, he was honored as part of the UF Hall of Fame, the highest honor for student 
leaders at the university. ABOVE:
  Dr. Huy Huynh poses with his coworkers at DeBary Dental Care where he practiced. Having received his dental 
degree in 2013, Huynh was not able to practice dentistry for long before he was diagnosed with a brain tumor in 2015.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-14-17-70-10Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-14-25-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
One bedroom of four bedroom condo for 
rent in Countryside @ UF Condos. $425 per room two available 352-870-2792 Text or Call     6-29-17-4-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
** LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION **
1 and 2 bedroom apartments all located close to UF and Downtown. All unique and some with paid utilities. Call 352-870-2760.    8-21-177-13-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTHURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please .
ACROSS
1 Angry Orchard
product
6 Bony part of the
roof of the 
mouth
12 1988
Schwarzenegger
cop film
14 Put an end to16 Clears a
stoppage from
17 Entertainer
nicknamed “TheSchnoz”
18 “Be Prepared”
org.
19 Party hearty21 Monterrey Mrs.22 Outlying area,
briefly
24 Whitman of TV’s
“Parenthood”
25 Slightly26 Earth along the
Elbe
27 Lyric tribute29 French course31 Score silence32 Guideline34 Spot for wheels?35 Gritty ... and a
description of thispuzzle, which isalso a hint tocompleting eightanswers
38 “... __ lovely 
as ... ”: Kilmer
41 European
volcano
42 Seis doubled
46 Beat the bushes48 Note site49 Exploring Griffith
Park, say
50 Sushi bar drink51 __-Locka, Florida53 Not e’en once54 Terrestrial newt
55 Hammer at an
angle
59 Sun shade
60 Destructive storm62 Agenda opener64 Administer an
oath to
65 Made do66 Contacts option67 Punishing work
DOWN
1 Official rebuke2 Security issues?
3 FedEx alternative4 Anti-discrimination
org.
5 Musical style of
AnoushkaShankar’s 2015album “Home”
6 City near Venice
7 Mistreats8 Traditional
accounts
9 Chef’s phrase
10 Sheriff’s badge
11 “CHiPs” actor12 Hockey puck
material
13 Original
Dungeons &Dragons co.
15 Stubborn20 Breakfast
cookware
23 “Don’t forget our
date”
25 “Arabian Nights”
character
27 Hockey immortal
28 Guy
30 Breeze through
33 Author Ferber36 “Better Call Saul”
network
37 Wander38 Real estate, gold,
silver, etc.
39 Pheasant kin
40 Yellow ribbon
holder of song
43 “Almost finished!”44 Pledge, e.g.45 Gotten with
considerableeffort
47 Identity-
concealing garb,perhaps52 Lowly workers55 Completes a
street
56 Purpose57 Tilted type: 
Abbr.
58 “Not That 
Kind of Girl”memoiristDunham
61 Indian bread63 Shakespeare’s
fairy queen
By Gerry Wildenberg©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/29/1706/29/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 29, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. HISTORY: What was poet Walt 
Whitman’s job during the U.S. Civil 
War?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which U.S. 
National Park receives more visitors every year than any other park?
3. SCIENCE: What does a lepidop-
terist study?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of 
food is chevre?
5. FASHION: What kind of cloth 
takes its name from the phrase “cloth 
of the king”?
6. CURRENCY: What was Poland’s 
basic unit of currency called before the 
euro?
7. AD SLOGANS: What product 
was advertised as “the snack that smiles back”?
8. MUSIC: Who is the lead singer for 
the Red Hot Chili Peppers?
9. COLLEGE TEAMS: What is Rut-
gers University sports team called?
10. ART: Which 20th-century pho-
tographer was known for his black-and-white depictions of the American West?
Answers
1. Male nurse2. Great Smoky Mountains3. Butterflies and moths4. Goat’s milk cheese5. Corduroy is from the French “cord 
du roi”
6. The zloty7. Goldfish crackers8. Anthony Kiedis9. Scarlet Knights10. Ansel Adams
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 26, 2017 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
Designated drivers are the greatestACROSS
1 Hubby’s “better
half”
7 Metaphorical
china shop culprit
11 Rest area?
14 Bring to light15 “That makes
sense”
16 __ paper
17 Literally, “Ireland
forever”
19 Swelling reducer20 Pie __ mode21 Figured out22 Ward off24 Accident
investigation site
28 Vacuums, say30 Meteorological
light shows
33 Ill-mannered34 You might get a
bad one in the
rough
35 Cosmetic surg.
option
36 Leia’s love
37 Gently towels off41 Safari beast42 Equal44 Protective
housing
45 Survey choice
47 Need for a return,
usually
49 Crazy Horse, for
one
51 Eavesdrop
53 Speed skater
Ohno
55 Put a stop to
56 Sound from a toy59 Possesses60 Ump’s
controversial call,perhaps ... and ahint to thispuzzle’s circles
65 Imitate
66 Commentary
piece
67 Eight-time Best
Actor Oscar
nominee whonever won
68 Unfavorable
69 Sundae crunch
providers
70 Squeezed (in)
DOWN
1 Uno e due2 Wife of Zeus3 “See no __ ... ”4 Endangers5 Word after dust
or do
6 “America Runs
on Dunkin’,” e.g.
7 Beginning
8 “Born in the __”9 Stocking stuffer?
10 MacNeil’s
longtime co-host
11 Unlock a cellphone
screen, perhaps
12 Show anxiety, in
a way
13 Skater’s
maneuver
18 Head honcho23 Carbon
compound
25 Sign of a sore
throat
26 Expressed27 Stage coach?28 Hunger for
29 Sign of an
impendingmerger?
31 Sleep problem
from the Greek
for “absence ofbreathing”
32 Like lemons, e.g.
33 Chaz Bono’s mom
34 “Dropped” ’60s
drug
38 Date with the doc39 Roomy bag
40 Musician Ono43 Diamond of song
46 Broadway
performer’s
recognition
48 Equiangular
geometric figure
49 “The Mod Squad”
member
50 “You said it!”
52 Food and shelter,
for two53 Pequod captain
54 Rollin’ stone, 
in a Motownclassic
57 Enthralled
58 Brazilian soccer
hero
61 “The Simpsons”
storekeeper
62 Fulfilled, as a
deadline
63 Wolfed down
64 Embarrassed
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/28/1706/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, June 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
NANNY
Offering full time / part time services at child's 
home. For further information please contact 
Judith at 352-575-7409    7-6-2-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
MALE ENHANCEMENT PUMP
Get Stronger &amp; Firmer Immediately.Increase Size Permanently &amp; Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Brochure: 1-800- 354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com     6-29-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-29-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL con-nection.      6-29-1-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Realm nightclub coming summer B
Hiring bar staff, security, promo peopleContact via
www.facebook.com/realmnightclub    6-29-
17-3-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '17
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
6-29-17-3-14
Content Writer. P/T. The primary focus is on 
content for web pages, blogs & social posts. Great opportunity for journalism students. sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com or (352) 339-3156. $9.5/h     7-11-17-5-14
CARPET CLEANING TECH
WANTED - FT
Clean driving record, clean criminal history. 
Call 352-396-4207     7-13-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) for Active Quadriplegic
2 to 3 Part Time Caregivers needed12-16 hrs week / $17-$20 hr / 6-10AMAssist w/ADL activities. CNA or higherDetails: caregiverprovider@cox.net    7-11-17-4-14
ASSOCIATE ATTORNEYThe Tampa office of Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith is looking to hire an Associate Attorney to join a growing office with a na-tional law firm. The ideal candidate has 1-3 years experience. First and third party civil litigation experience is preferred. Excellent academic credentials, writing and advocacy skills, and a current Florida bar license is required. Competitive salary and benefits of-fered. Please email resumes to Jason.Hall@lewisbribsois.com     6-29-17-2-14
 Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Near Campus   
Research A ssistant  / Internship
email  1  page resume to 
science@mammacare.org     7-6-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-17-25-15
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFormer Gator baseball player 
Mike Zunino has been hot at the plate this month for the Seattle Mariners. Catch up on him and other Gators in the MLB. Read the story, pg. 19.Gators volleyball tops preseason poll
The Florida volleyball team earned the No. 1 ranking in the SEC Preseason 
Coaches' Poll on Wednesday. UF garnered seven of the 13 ﬁ  rst-place votes in the poll. The Gators went 16-2 in SEC play last season to ﬁ  nish in a tie for ﬁ  rst in the conference standings.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
51-Brady Singer
21-Alex Faedo
32-Keenan Bell
8-Deacon Liput
23-Nate Brown
9-Christian Hicks
13-Austin Bodrato
52-Kirby McMullen
 3-Garrett Milchin
26-Nick Horvath
 5-Dalton Guthrie
20-Billy McKay
17-Mihcael Byrne
22-JJ Schwarz
66-Ryan Larson
24-Cam Weinberger
35-Andrew Baker
HC-Kevin O'Sullivan
 39-Frank Rubio
27-Nelson Maldonado
 36-Cole Maye
44-Austin Langworthy
28-Mark Kolozsvary
37-Jackson Kowar
 34-Nick Long
 10-David Lee
12-Blake Reese
4-Mike Rivera
6-Jonathan India
18-Tyler Dyson
 The Florida Gators baseball 
team are national champions for 
the ﬁ  rst time in program history. UF defeated LSU 6-1 in Game 2 of the College World Series Finals on Tuesday night to end a 102-year title drought in Gainesville. Coach Kevin O’Sullivan received standout performances all season long from players such as starting pitcher Alex Faedo, who tossed an NCAA-lead-ing 157 strikeouts, and catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz, who belted a team-high 12 home runs. But those weren’t the only two guys to make serious contributions for this year’s team. There were 29 total players on Florida’s championship squad, and each one played a big role in getting the Gators to Omaha. Here is the full roster of your 2017 NCAA Champion Florida Gators baseball team.Left: 
Florida's baseball team celebrates after its 6-1 win against LSU in Game 2 of the College World Series on Tuesday at TD Ameritrade Park in Omaha, Nebraska. The victory gave the Gators their ﬁ  rst NCAA Championship in program history. Florida is now the fourth school to hold national titles in football, men's basketball and baseball. UF now has 39 total NCAA championships among its 21 varsity sports.
The 2017 NCAA Champion Florida Gators Baseball Team
Associated Press
Mugged inside story description goes here.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsStaff Report
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which coach 
was the best of the 2016-17 season. Sports writers Mari Faiello, Andrew Huang and Morgan McMullen 
join alligatorSports editors Dylan 
Dixon and Jake Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Dixon: Glaser made women’s 
golf relevant again
A lot of you probably haven’t 
heard of Emily Glaser before. And that’s ok. Allow me to enlighten you.
Glaser led the Florida women’s 
golf team to new heights this year, helping it win its ﬁ  rst SEC championship since 2008 and guiding it to a top-eight ﬁ  nish in the NCAA Championships for the ﬁ  rst 
time since 2006.
Under her direction, the Gators 
also accrued ﬁ  ve team wins 
and collected eight individual tournament titles, one of their best all-around showings in a season in recent program history.
The group’s accomplishments 
were good enough to earn her both 
the SEC Coach of the Year award 
and the East Region Coach of the Year award.
And why was she such a good 
coach in 2016-17? She instilled conﬁ  dence in her players, something that’s been lacking in recent seasons.
“I just think we actually believed 
we would win this year,” Karolina Vlckova said in a release after Florida won the SEC championship. “And it made a difference.”
Let’s face it, this team totally 
overachieved and did more than anyone ever expected it would this spring.
The Gators hadn’t won a 
conference title in almost 10 years and never even came close to reaching match play in the NCAA Championships. Even though she wasn’t able to lead her team to a national title like Roland Thornqvist or Mike Holloway or Kevin O’Sullivan did, Glaser did get her 
program much further than anyone 
thought she would. And isn’t that the ultimate goal of a coach, to get the best performance possible out of your players? In my mind, there wasn’t a coach who did that better in 2016-17 than Glaser.
Dreilinger: Thornqvist led his 
team to national prominence
When you’re talking about some 
of the all-time great coaches in Florida athletics history, current women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist is usually in that discussion.
The season his team had this year 
makes his argument even stronger.
On top of winning the national 
title this season, the Gators never dropped from the No. 1 spot in the ITA rankings, holding on despite taking losses from Georgia once and Vanderbilt twice. 
Florida also went 29-3, its best 
record since going 27-1 in 2012. That season, UF won the national title as well. But what makes this season so 
amazing, and gives Thornqvist a lot 
of credibility as a coach, is the stats 
that showed just how dominant the Gators were.
The importance of the doubles 
point was something Thornqvist stressed all season long. 
Florida won the doubles point in 
27 of its 32 matches this season, and in matches where it won the doubles point, it went 26-1.What made the Gators such 
a threat and showed how good 
Thornqvist is as a coach was their 
ability to put away their opponents. The Gators outscored their opponents 131-35 and were able to make their presence felt on the court. 
Thornqvist even had a player 
reach the ﬁ  nals in the NCAA Individual Singles Tournament. Belinda Woolcock, who played singles matches for 11 consecutive days, ﬁ  nished runner-up to Michigan’s Brienne Minor.
Thornqvist should be considered 
one of the greatest coaches to grace the University of Florida, and his track record backs it up. But with the season his team had this year, it’s 
hard not to call him the best coach 
this year as well. 
Faiello: Mike Holloway 
coached UF to gold
It always amazes me how 
coaches can take top Division I athletes and somehow make them even better than they were before. 
Mike Holloway, head coach for the 
men’s and women’s track and ﬁ  eld and cross country teams, has trained these athletes to compete at the highest level and achieve nothing but greatness.
This season, Florida took home 
their seventh NCAA Outdoor Championship title for the men’s 
program from Hayward Field 
in early June. Holloway has coached the Gators to back-to-back championships in addition to having four individual athletes secure their own titles.
Capturing the championship 
has propelled the program to new levels of competitiveness. This title 
marks Florida’s 19th top-two ﬁ  nish 
in 30 NCAA Championship meets under Holloway. No other program has more than nine top-two ﬁ  nishes since 2003.
Holloway is also noted as the 
seventh head coach to win seven men’s NCAA Championships in 18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
HIPPODROME THEATRE
CALL NOW! 352.375.44 77 OR VISIT THEHIPP.ORG
25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GAINESVILLE
HIPPODROME THEATRE
Welcome to the Ville, Gators!
Join the H ipp do wntown f or liv e
thea tre, indie cinema & full bar!
Student Discounts + Happy Hour
@hipptheatre | thehipp.org | 352.375.4477
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Roland Thornqvist looks on during UF’s 4-2 win against Oklahoma State on Feb. 18, 2017, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
 Who was Florida’s best coach of the 2016-17 season?
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE  20THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
GATORS IN THE MLB
Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Former Gator and current Seattle 
Mariners catcher Mike Zunino has 
had a month to remember.
Since his call-up from the minors 
in late May, Zunino’s production at 
the plate has improved drastically. 
Since June 1, he has hit 30 RBIs and 
10 home runs and is batting .319.
Zunino hasn’t had it easy with 
the Mariners since he was drafted 
third overall in the 2012 MLB Draft. Despite rising through the minors and making his major league debut on June 12, 2013, the Cape Coral native has struggled getting used to the big leagues.
A broken hand sidelined him 
early in his rookie season, and a .199 batting average in 2014 prompted the Mariners to send Zunino back to their Triple A afﬁ  liate, the Tacoma Rainiers. He alternated back and forth from Triple A to the majors for the next few seasons, but now seems to be doing pretty well if this last month is any indicator.
Tebow and Puk get promotedTwo former Gators were recently 
called up to the next level in their minor league systems.
Tim Tebow, who played for the 
New York Mets’ Class A afﬁ  liate, the Columbia Fireﬂ  ies, was recently promoted to the Class A-advanced 
St. Lucie Mets and smacked a home 
run on Wednesday.
Tebow hit .220 in his time in 
Columbia with 47 hits over 64 games, three home runs and 23 RBIs. In his last 10 games, the former Gators quarterback has seven hits and ﬁ  ve RBIs, but struck out 10 times.
He’s not the only one moving up.Former Florida pitcher AJ Puk is 
heading to the Midland Rockhounds, the Double A afﬁ  liate of the Oakland Athletics, where he joins former 
teammate Richie Martin. 
Under the Stockton Ports, the A’s 
Class A-advanced afﬁ  liate, Puk was 
4-5, including going 3-1 in his last ﬁ  ve starts in Single A-advanced. In 14 games, 11 of which were starts, the sixth overall pick in the 2016 MLB Draft had a 3.69 ERA over 61 innings pitched with 44 hits allowed 
and 98 strikeouts. 
But in his ﬁ  rst two starts as a 
Rockhound, Puk has struggled. 
He’s lost his ﬁ  rst two games and 
has an 8.59 ERA.The rest of the best
Peter Alonso has been playing 
well for the St. Lucie Mets since he returned from the seven-day disabled list in late May. In his last 10 games, the Tampa native is hitting .405 with 15 hits, 14 RBIs 
and three home runs. 
On the season, Alonso hasn’t 
been hitting well with a .234 batting 
average. But with his recent turn-around, he could ﬁ  nish the season strong.
Someone who hasn’t been doing 
well, though, is Richie Martin.
He’s hitting .219 on the year with 
39 hits and 11 RBIs. And the last ten games haven’t looked so good either.
In that span, he’s batting .097 
with just three hits and one RBI.
Former Gators’ Friday night starter Logan Shore has been put on the seven-day disabled list, and hasn’t seen the ﬁ  eld since.
Before his injury, Shore was 1-3 
for the Stockton Ports with a 3.12 ERA, allowing 33 hits over 34.2 innings pitched and striking out 32 
batters. 
Shaun Anderson, the former 
closer for the Gators, has been a 
solid pitcher for the Salem Red Sox, the Class A-advanced afﬁ  liate for Boston.
He’s 1-1 in six starts for Salem 
this year and boasts a 4.59 ERA. In 33.1 innings pitched, Anderson has 
allowed 29 hits and has struck out 
21 batters.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org 
Zunino has historic month in Seattle, Tebow and Puk called up  By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writers
The UF baseball team held a championship 
celebration for fans at McKethan Stadium on 
Wednesday night to commemorate its ﬁ  rst ever 
NCAA title.
The event, hosted by Jeff Cardozo, allowed 
fans to see the Gators and their NCAA Tournament 
title for the ﬁ  rst time since their 6-1 win over LSU 
on Tuesday night in Game 2 of the College World 
Series Finals.
The celebration kicked off with the team entering 
the ﬁ  eld through an inﬂ  ateable Gator tunnel as Alex Faedo hoisted their trophy into the air.
Cardozo then interviewed Faedo, Brady Singer, 
Deacon Liput and Mike Rivera about their journey to Omaha and what the experience meant to them. Both Singer and Faedo received standing ovations and the crowd wished Liput, who turned 21 on Tuesday, a happy belated birthday.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan was next to sit in the 
hot seat, where he talked about his time at Florida 
and the team that won him his ﬁ  rst CWS title.
“There will never be another team that does it a 
ﬁ  rst time,” O’Sullivan said.
After interviews were done, the fans in 
attendance were permitted to enter the ﬁ  eld to get autographs and take pictures with players and the 
trophy. 
Over by the ﬁ  rst base dugout, O’Sullivan was 
surrounded by members of the media and was 
asked about the pressure his team faced in Omaha. 
“We just happened to have a gritty bunch that 
ﬁ  gured it out at the end,” O’Sullivan said.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org Gators celebrate CWS Title with fans
Ben Anderson / Alligator Staff
Alex Faedo hoists the NCAA T ournament trophy on Wednesday night during 
UF’s championship celebration at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 2017
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
7750 W Newberry Rd
352.727.4619House Margaritas 
and Draft Beers 
2 for 1
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
auto repair shop
$20 Oil Change up to 4qts
We carry car, truck and trailer tires 
Four new tires gets free alignment
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858Blue Crystal Cornucopia, Inc.
  Tuesday-Saturday 11 am-7 pm | 1801 NE 23rd Ave., Gainesville, FL 32609 | (352)-378-2583Among Health Benefits Of Cbd Oil
- Reduces blood sugar levels
- Anti-inflammatory- Reduces risk of artery blockage- Relieves pain, anxiety , and depression- 100% legal in all 50 states- Alzheimer'sMedicine for the People
We sell Scared-Threads Clothes, 
Gem Stones, Jewelry , Crystals and  
Essential Oils. 
 
Visit our art gallery.
Mention this ad and get 10% off 
your first purchase.Division I history.
Following a successful weekend at the 
USATF Outdoor Championships, 14 Gators 
(both current and alumni) qualiﬁ  ed to compete in the IAAF World Championships in London 
this August. Three Gators also qualiﬁ  ed for 
spots on Team USA after competing well at the meet.
These recent successes add on to 
Holloway’s coaching legacy. Under coach 
Holloway, the Gators track and ﬁ  eld program 
has 56 individual national champions, 147 
SEC champions and 579 All-American honors. Holloway also had the honor of being named the USTFCCCA National Coach of the Year for the second consecutive season. 
Mike Holloway is one of the best coaches 
Florida has ever seen. His athletic career before he started coaching speaks for itself which is why his guidance and mentorship is a crucial 
part of the program’s success.
Huang: White surpassed expectations
Twenty wins is usually considered good for 
a college basketball team.  In the Gators’ ﬁ  rst 75 years on the court, Florida faithful saw this happen ﬁ  ve times.
Enter Billy Donovan, the man, myth and 
legend who engineered 16 straight 20-win 
seasons in Gainesville.
Donovan also won back-to-back 
championships, reached the Final Four in 
2000, 2006, 2007 and 2014, and has a 235-game lead on the next most-winningest coach in school history.Donovan built the Florida basketball 
program from the ground up.
Many expected Mike White to struggle to 
ﬁ  ll those shoes after Donovan moved on to the NBA following 19 seasons at UF. But cool, calm and collected as always, White laced them up and hit the ground running.
Through two seasons with the Gators, 
White has far surpassed Donovan’s accomplishments to that point in his Florida 
career.  In his inaugural 2015-16 season, White 
led the team to a 21-15 record, reaching the NIT quarterﬁ  nals/
In 2016-17, he exceeded expectations by 
a mile, ﬁ  nishing 27-9 and reaching the Elite Eight.  Keep in mind that just one player on last year’s roster, Kasey Hill, played for Donovan’s 36-3, 2014 Final Four squad.
While there were still holdovers from 
Donovan’s time, we owe White credit for player development. Budding star KeVaughn Allen has come to play through his ﬁ  rst two seasons with White as his coach.
White gave Gator nation a peace of mind, 
showing that he is the guy for the job.  Twenty-seven wins with a deep run in the NCAA Tournament doesn’t just happen.
This season, he earned the trust of his 
locker room, a contract extension and my vote for UF Coach of the Year.
McMullen: O’Sullivan’s efforts worth 
the wait
Holy cow, what a game. What a series. 
What a postseason.
If Kevin O’Sullivan didn’t earn every penny 
of his gargantuan $1.25 million salary with 
bold moves and genius coaching, then I might as well quit my job at the Alligator right now.
Good thing he did.
Winning the ﬁ  rst national championship 
in team history is no small feat. Winning a national championship against a team that had never lost a College World Series Championship in its previous six trips to the ﬁ  nals is the stuff of legends.
The chutzpah of O’Sullivan to insert 
presumed Game 3 starter Jackson Kowar in 
the top of the eighth inning while clinging to 
a one-run lead was impressive. The foresight to start his best pitcher to clinch the semiﬁ  nals series against TCU, knowing that if his team advanced, O’Sullivan would not be able to use his ace again was risky. But the man knows how to manage a team.
Good thing he does.How about starting the No. 22-ranked third 
baseman prospect, a freshman, at pitcher for the clinching game against LSU?
After a sweep suffered at the hands of 
Auburn in the middle of March, UF sat at 13-8. It was unclear if the offense would get itself turned around in time for the postseason, or if the Gators would even get there at all.
Following the sweep, Florida would only 
lose consecutive games one more time.
O’Sullivan utilized patience and boldness, 
veteran savvy and rookie-like risk-taking, to get his Gators to the promised land.
He deserves to be the best coach for the 
Alligator awards. 
Good thing he will.  
Who do you think was the best coach of the 
2016-17 season? Vote online at alligator.org/
sports. AWARDS,  from pg. 18UF’s men’s basketball team went 27-9 this year under White
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Mike White stands during UF’s 77-70 loss 
against South Carolina on March 26, 2017.
