We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 106 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017
Florida men’s golf falls ﬂ  at
The Gators ﬁ  nished fourth in their lone home 
tournament, pg.15
Meet the SG candidates
See our proﬁ  les on the executive ticket and candidates for Student Senate, pgs. 8 and 9
New meal-delivery service open to students
The prepackaged meals cost $99 a week, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gary Langford’s trumpet com-
municated grief for a fallen friend 
Saturday.
His soulful rendition of “Amazing 
Grace,” delivered inside the United 
Church of Gainesville’s chapel, 
was ﬁ  tting considering who he was mourning: longtime band director Gerald Dean Poe, who died Feb. 6 in 
Trenton, Florida.
He was 74, and the father of 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. 
After a tenure at UF as an assis-
tant band director, the senior Poe 
continued spreading music through-out Alachua County, serving as the band director at Hawthorne Middle/High School in 1986 before work-ing at Kanapaha Middle School until 
2004.
Joined inside the chapel by about 
100 others singing along to his trib-
ute, Langford said he will miss eat-ing lunch every Monday with his friend of 20 years.
Senior Minister Shelley Wilson 
led the service. She picked two of Poe’s favorite hymns to share 
with the congre-
gation, “Be Still My Soul” and “Be Now My Vision.” 
After the ser-
vice, friends and 
family met in Re-imer Hall, which 
is in the church, and looked through 
memorabilia of Poe’s life and career.
Poe is survived by his two sons, 
the mayor and Russell Poe. Lauren Poe said he was proud to 
have called Poe his father.
“He gave fully of himself until he 
had no more to give,” he said.
Poe grew up in Montrose, Colo-
rado, with two sisters in a two-room 
house. 
Lauren Poe said his father’s par-
ents, Chester and Esther, were hard-
working and taught their children 
the values Poe would later instill in his sons.  Family, friends honor former UF band director
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A hot air balloon ﬂ  ies over Flavet Field on Friday. The balloon was brought by UF’s Bateman team, a group 
of public relations students, to kick off their monthlong campaign advocating for mental health awareness.
By Debby Marsan
Alligator Contributing Writer
A P.F. Chang’s China Bistro 
will be among the new restaurants 
added to Butler Town Center in the fall of 2018. 
Construction on the 267-acre 
project has not begun, but the upscale Asian bistro has already signed its lease, said Mary Reich-ardt, the director of marketing for Butler Enterprises. 
P.F. Chang’s will be one of the 
ﬁ  rst additions to the new Butler Town Center.
The restaurant will serve lunch 
and dinner, featuring classic Asian dishes for about $10 to $20 a plate, and a wine, beer and cocktail menu for about $10 a glass.
“The town center is going to 
be something very special that Gainesville has never been able to see at this scale before,” she said. 
The center will be an open-air 
shopping, dining and living expe-rience off Archer Road and 34th Street, she said. 
More than just shopping and 
dining, Reichardt said it will be a place for people to live, work and play.
Butler Town Center’s leas-
ing team has selected a very spe-ciﬁ  c mix of tenants, she said. The  P.F. Chang’s among new restaurants at Butler Town CenterTHE EVENT KICKED OFF 
A MONTHLONG MENTAL 
HEALTH AWARENESS 
CAMPAIGN.
By Michael Smith
Alligator Contributing Writer
As students craned their necks 
to gaze at the red, blue and yel-
low hot air balloon ﬂ  ying over 
Flavet Field on Friday, they were 
encouraged to think about what lifts them up. 
UF’s Bateman team brought 
the balloon for their Onward and Upward event from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday to catch the eyes of passing students. It kicked off the public relations team’s month-
long Mind the Gap campaign for 
the 2017 Bateman Case Study Competition. The campaign aims to change people’s perceptions of 
mental health in Gainesville, said 
Paige Arnold, a member of the team. 
About 15 students attended 
and participated in the event’s mental-health awareness activi-
ties. 
Arnold, a 24-year-old UF pub-
lic relations senior, said the bal-
loon was to draw students to the 
event and encourage them to 
think about mental health. But it was also a symbol of release.
“It’s about really kind of let-
ting your worries ﬂ  oat away,” she 
said.
The “gap” in the Mind the 
Gap campaign refers to the dis-
parity between how people in 
Gainesville may value physical  Hot air balloon ﬂ  oats 
for mental health at UFSEE OBITUARY,  PAGE 3
SEE BALLOON,  PAGE 3
SEE BUTLER,  PAGE 3The center will be open in fall of 2018“It’s about really kind of 
letting your worries loat 
away.”
Paige Arnold
Member of UF Bateman T eamHe was Mayor Lauren Poe’s father
Poe
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Swing Dancing Club 
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
offers free lessons and danc-es every Monday and Friday night. Today, the organization 
will host two hours of lessons 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. On Friday nights, the organiza-tion hosts two levels of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 
121. For more information, find 
the Florida Swing Dancing Club on Facebook.
#NotAccommodating T-shirt 
campaign The #NotAccommodating cam-paign is a visual protest to the changes marginalized people 
make to their identities in or-
der to fit into mainstream so-ciety. Through this campaign, they hope to shed light on the community’s stories and how they should rise above it. The first event of the series, the #NotAccommodating T-shirt campaign, will be Tuesday 
from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
Digital Learning Fair at the UF 
LibrariesThe George A. Smathers Libraries will hold a Digital 
Learning Fair at the UF Libraries 
on Thursday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library East, Room 100. Look for the bal-loons. Students can learn about the digital resources available in the libraries, including 3D print-ing, education testing databas-es, mapping tools, One Button 
Studio, digital newspapers and 
more. There will be free snacks and giveaways.
‘On the Edge: What Future for 
the African Sahel?’ Join us for the 2017 Gwendolen M. Carter Conference in African Studies organized by the UF 
Sahel Research Group from 
Thursday through Sunday. All panels will be held in the Reitz Union, except for the first key-note lecture and the opening reception, which will be held at the Harn Museum of Art. Transportation to the museum will be provided. This interdis-
ciplinary conference will bring 
together scholars from Africa, Europe and North America to offer perspectives on key issues shaping the region. The confer-ence is free and open to the pub-lic, but advanced registration is kindly requested. For more in-formation, visit sahelresearch.africa.ufl.edu.
UF School of Theatre and 
Dance presents ‘Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner’UF’s School of Theatre and Dance is proud to present “Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner” from Thursday un-til March 2 at the Constans 
Theatre. “Dance 2017: Rounding 
the Corner” brings together UF dance faculty, world-renowned guest artists, and top student dancers and designers to create a unique and riveting perfor-mance on the spacious stage of the Constans Theatre. “Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner” 
sets the standard for present-
ing bold and unapologetically original contemporary dance. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF staff and seniors, and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is 
available at arts.ufl.edu.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion
“Queerness and Disability” is the second installment of UF LGBTQ Affairs’ semester-long lunch series. They will look to examine and understand the in-
tersection of LGBTQ+ identities 
and disabilities, and they will ex-plore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related to differ-ent facets of these intersectional identities. This event is open to all people, whether you do or do not identify as LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will take place 
in the LGBTQ Affairs space in 
the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Friday from noon to 1 p.m.
An evening of Finnish folk mu-
sic The Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An 
Evening of Finnish Folk Music” 
on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave. The per-forming and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English and Finnish. This free musi-cal program will be in Meeting 
Room A. For more information 
about library programs, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.‘Ask a Scientist: Geology’ at 
Florida Museum Florida Museum of Natural History visitors may bring speci-mens and find answers during 
an afternoon of discovery and 
learning March 12 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Participants for “Ask a Scientist: Geology” may talk one-on-one with researchers from UF’s department of geolog-ical sciences. For more informa-tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calen-dar/grid/ask-scientist-geology 
or call 352-273-2062.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Solutions seminar 
featuring Chris Koch Canadian farmer Chris Koch was born with no arms and legs, yet despite the challenges he faces, he chooses to take life in 
stride and make the best of ev-
ery situation. He has not let lim-itations and obstacles stand in the way of achieving his goals. Chris will speak March 13 at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at 6 p.m. and again March 14 at 9 a.m. in the Straughn Center. UF students and the greater 
Gainesville community are wel-
come to attend either session. Learn more and register for this free event at cals.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum hosts “Can You 
Dig It?” on March 18 Discover the earth at your feet during this free, fun-for-all-ages 
geology event. Enjoy hands-on 
activities from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on March 18, and watch demon-strations of volcanic eruptions. The event is presented in part by the UF department of geological sciences. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/canyoudigit or call 352-273-2062.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 106
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  56°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
“He must have been made from unadulter-
ated love,” Lauren Poe said.
Poe graduated with a music degree from 
Western State College in Gunnison, Colorado, 
where he met his wife. He worked at the Uni-versity of Portland as a band director before he working at the University of Oregon. He then moved to Florida to be an assistant band 
director at UF.
He met lifelong friends at UF and discov-
ered a love for fishing on Florida shores, Lau-
ren Poe said. He even bought a fishing shack on the Gulf Coast, where he spent most of his time.
Langford said he watched Poe teach and it 
was inspiring.
“He taught his students not just about mu-
sic but also about life,” he said.
During his retirement, Poe directed the 
Gainesville Community Band, traveled and handcrafted gifts for his two granddaughters.
Gainesville Commissioner Helen Warren 
works with Poe’s son and knew the kind of impact Poe had on the community for more than 40 years. 
“He brought people together with music,” 
she said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgOBITUARY,  from pg.1About 100 gathered to mournhealth over mental health, Arnold 
said.
In one activity designed to close the gap, students wrote phrases about what made them 
stressed on a balloon and then 
popped it. They then wrote on a card something that lifts them up, placing the cards in a replica of a hot air balloon’s wicker basket. 
Claire Hodges, a UF sustain-
ability and the built environment freshman, wrote “my Diff Eq exam,” referencing a test in her Elementary Differential Equations 
class. 
Hodges, 18, said she dealt 
with depression about a year and a half ago and knows how easily 
mental health can be overlooked, 
especially in college. 
“It’s easy to let something 
slip,” she said. “You are a pri-
ority: not your grades, not your 
friends.” 
Arnold said UF has never had 
a hot air balloon launched from 
campus before, but Bob Carlton, the owner of the company operat-
ing the balloon Friday, came close 
in 1982. Floating over Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, Carlton watched the UF vs. University of South-
ern California football game from 
above — in a balloon that read, “Trojans pop under pressure.”
Carlton and his pilot Drew 
Barrett set up and flew the hot air 
balloon Friday until about 12:30 
p.m., when the outside tempera-ture became too hot to operate it efficiently. 
Carlton said he was more than 
willing to volunteer his time and resources. He liked the idea of us-ing a large hot air balloon to draw attention to the importance and 
validity of mental health, because 
the balloon stands out against the sky above UF. 
“It’s a great visual,” he said. 
“Everyone loves a balloon.”
Arnold said everyone should 
be aware of their mental health, not just those who struggle with mental illness. 
“Everyone has mental health, 
and it does not mean mental ill-ness,” she said. “We should treat it the same as we do our physi-
cal self, because they go hand in 
hand. We need a balance.”BALLOON,  from pg.1The event kicked off a mental health awareness campaign at UF
Michael Smith / Alligator 
A view of Flavet Field from the hot air balloon during the Onward 
and Upward event on Friday, hosted by the UF Bateman team. The team used the balloon to draw attention to the importance of mental health. About 15 people attended and engaged in mental-health activities.
Michael Smith / Alligator 
Bob Carlton, the owner of Balloons and Beyond, disassembles his hot air balloon on Flavet Field after about an hour and half of balloon rides on Friday. Carlton volunteered to bring his balloon to help raise awareness of mental health at the Onward and Upward event, hosted by the UF Bateman team.
team does not want all of their spaces to be 
geared toward a certain demographic.
“They very carefully look at each loca-
tion and fit it together like a beautiful puz-zle,” Reichardt said. 
In addition to the P.F. Chang’s, 
Gainesville residents can expect to see a Whole Foods Market, which is a specialty grocery store; Bahama Breeze Island Grille, where customers can order Caribbean cui-sine; and Keke’s Breakfast Cafe, a new lunch and breakfast restaurant.  For many students like Kristen Hansen, 
18,  the news came as an exciting surprise. She said she eats at the P.F. Chang’s in her hometown of Orlando often but did not ex-pect for one to open in Gainesville.
“I kind of consider it high-end Chinese 
food,” the UF chemical engineering fresh-man said. “It’s like a step up from Panda Express.”
She said she looks forward to going for 
special occasions like birthdays or a night out, because Asian-inspired food is some-thing she enjoys. 
“We’re sick of Panda,” she said. “We 
need something new.”BUTLER,  from pg.1More restaurants will followBy Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
For one UF student, an argu-
ment among roommates ended in 
a stream of pepper spray and po-lice being called.
After a dispute Friday, Marvis 
Alixa Cruz Fuentes, a 24-year-old psychology and philosophy se-
nior, ran at her roommates wield-ing a mace cannister, according to 
an arrest report.
Inside their home on Northwest 
11th Street, Fuentes sprayed them 
in their faces and necks, an attack she later called self-defense.
“I thought they were going to 
try to jump me,” she said. “Out of self-defense, I pepper-sprayed them. I ran back to my room and called police.”
One of the roommates record-
ed Fuentes yelling, according to the report. The video lost focus but police said the sounds of her roommates screaming could be heard at the end of the video.
Living in the home is toxic, Fuentes said. 
On multiple 
occasions, her 
roommates  have called her 
names, yelled 
and been physi-
cally aggressive with her, she 
said.
Police arrested Fuentes on a 
charge of battery.
Authorities took her to the Ala-chua County Jail, where she was released on her own recognizance Saturday.
She said she is considering 
pressing charges against a room-
mate who pushed her the same 
morning, which caused her to drop a glass plate and cut her foot. 
“I wish I hadn’t gone home that 
day,” she said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgAfter dispute, UF student pepper-sprayed roommates
She said the attack was in self-defense
Fuentes
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Two brothers were arrested  
Friday in connection to 39 car 
burglaries in Haile Plantation and Blues Creek, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and Gainesville Police said.
Elijah Anthony Simmons, 
19, and his 16-year-old broth-er, Joseph Simmons, drove a white Dodge Dakota to Haile Plantation late last month, stealing from 29 unlocked cars between Jan. 25 and 27, ac-cording to an arrest report. 
They drove to Blues Creek 
on Jan. 25 and stole from 10 cars.
Wes Corbett, a Blues Creek 
resident, said a Navajo cer-emonial woman’s pipe worth about $225, a gym bag, a green backpack with a stone collec-tion and about $10 in change was stolen from his white Hon-da Pilot.
He said he hasn’t been giv-
en back any of his belongings, but he knows his gym bag was recovered by police.
“I felt upset I didn’t lock my 
car,” he said. “Now I do.”
Someone 
who knew the brothers called po-lice and said they were driving to-ward West Newberry 
Road on Jan. 27, according to the report. Deputies stopped the truck and found some of the stolen items, including Bluetooth speakers, glasses and a lottery ticket.
Police also found marijuana 
in Elijah Simmons’ possession and two guns in the truck, ac-cording to the report. He told police that one of the guns was his and the other he took from a car.
Witnesses of the burglaries 
told police they saw two hood-ed men driving in a loud, white truck, according to the report.
GPD said the two would 
toss the items they didn’t want on the ground or in the next car they robbed, according to the report. 
Elijah Simmons was ar-
rested on charges of petty theft, unarmed burglary, drug possession and carrying a con-cealed ﬁ  rearm. Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-ty Jail, where he remains as of press time in lieu of a $101,000 bond. 
Joseph Simmons was ar-
rested and taken to the Alach-ua Regional Juvenile Detention Center. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
Cops: Teens stole from 39 cars 
Simmons
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
ROBOT WARS
Attendees of the Engineering Festival crowd around a display area in the rain on Saturday. The group watched robots go head to head in what some called “combat robotics. ”
By T aylor Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The annual UF Engineers’ Week 
will continue this week to encourage students to learn about UF’s Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering.
This year, Engineers’ Week, or E-
Week, consists of 19 events aimed to educate others of the opportunities UF’s College of Engineering offers. E-Week, a two-week series of events that started Feb. 13,  is open to ev-eryone and continues through Fri-day. There are seven events planned for this week both on and off cam-pus.
Nick Poindexter, the executive 
director for E-Week, said he’s been preparing for the events with other students since September. 
“The point of E-Week is to cel-
ebrate the diversity we have within the college,” said Poindexter, a 19-year-old UF electrical engineering sophomore. 
One of the goals for this year’s 
E-Week was to host more service events, he said. Two new events, Project Pawsitivity and Bowling with Faculty, which were held last week, were added to the schedule, he said. 
This week, the events will in-
clude an engineering Trivia Night on Wednesday at the Brass Tap, located at 3833 SW Archer Road. There will also be a gaming social and an En-gineering Leadership Forum held on campus. 
Jacob Hay, a UF chemical engi-
neering sophomore, said he plans to give tours this week for elementary and middle school students partici-pating in the Engineering and Sci-ence Fair on Tuesday and Wednes-day from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., which starts at the Reitz Union. The fair gives the younger students a chance to learn about being an engineer.
Hay said he appreciates all of the 
E-Week events held at UF.
“It’s a pretty unique opportunity 
that not a lot of the colleges at UF put on,” the 19-year-old said. “It’s a way to give back to the college, but it is also an opportunity to have some fun and volunteer.”  
 UF’s two-week Engineers’ Week to continue Monday
Seven events are planned for this week UPCOMING EVENTS:
• E-Wiik gaming social  from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Pugh 
Hall Ocora on Monday 
• Hour of Code event to teach students how to create a 
website  from 6:15 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. in McCarty Hall A, 
Room 2196, on Tuesday
• Trivia Night at Brass T ap  from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., located 
at 3833 SW Archer Road, on Wednesday
• College of Engineering’s annual T own Hall SWOT analysis  from 5:15 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. in McCarty Hall C, 
Room 100, on Wednesday 
• Engineering Leadership Forum  from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. in 
the Arredondo Cafe on Thursday 
• STEM Olympiad  from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. in Little Hall, 
Room 125, on ThursdayMONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Maddie Harlow 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students sick of dining-hall diets 
may soon ﬁ  nd solace in a new meal-
delivery service catered speciﬁ  cally to them.
Chef’d, a national delivery 
company, and the college food publication Spoon University collaborated to create ready-to-eat meals, which students can receive by mail once a week. They began to deliver them to the 48 lower U.S. states in February.
The kits, which include ready-to-
eat meals, snacks and fresh produce, 
are designed as an alternative to 
universities’ traditional dining plans, wrote Robert Jones, the Chef’d senior vice president of business development, in an email.
The kits, packaged in 
temperature-controlled boxes, will include two double-portioned meals, six grab-and-go meals and 10 snacks 
and beverages, he said. It costs $99 
a week. “These kits are designed to fulﬁ  ll 
about 80 to 85% of a student’s weekly food necessities, as students 
will still go out to eat with friends,” 
he said.
He said the kits will give busy 
college students easy ways to eat healthier meals and navigate their kitchens for what may be the ﬁ  rst time.
Jimmy Laurin, a UF Spanish 
freshman, said he hadn’t heard of 
the meal kits but thinks it would 
be more convenient than UF’s meal plans, especially because students wouldn’t have to leave their residence hall to eat.
“It’s got everything included,” the 
19-year-old said. “I deﬁ  nitely think that’s more convenient.”
Laurin said he enjoys UF’s dining 
plan, despite recent cockroach sightings in UF’s two on-campus dining halls.
“I haven’t personally experienced 
any of the controversy about the 
dining hall,” he said.
On Feb. 9, Zach Isler, a UF pharmacology freshman, posted a 
video of what appear to be 10 baby cockroaches crawling inside Fresh 
Food Company to Facebook groups.
Carly Patterson, 19, said while 
the meal kits would allow her to 
prepare food however she likes, it would be a waste of money because she already has a meal plan. 
“Broward Dining is, like, on 
campus and is literally, like, a three-minute walk, and I would feel kind 
of lazy,” the UF animal sciences 
freshman said. 
Companies  oﬀ  er meal-kit delivery for university studentsLawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
GATOR GAMING
Ty Van Roi, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering sophomore, and Neil “Finn” Hare, an 
18-year-old UF biological engineering freshman, play Super Smash Bros. Melee at the Gator Gaming Winter Party on Saturday. They used picture tube TV to play the videogame.
By Harrison O’Keeffe
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF scientist has won an award for 
discovering something Albert Einstein 
predicted more than 100 years ago.
David Reitze, a physics professor at 
UF, won the 2017 National Academy of 
Sciences Award for Scientiﬁ  c Discovery 
for his work in helping discover gravita-tional waves, which are ripples in space predicted by Einstein in 1916, he said. 
The award ceremony will take place 
in Washington, D.C., on April 20.
The award recognizes Reitze’s leader-
ship along with two scientists who work for Laser Interferometer Gravitational-
Wave Observatory, he said. The group is 
a collaboration of more than 1,100 scien-tists who study gravitational waves. 
In 2016, the group discovered the 
gravitational waves by observing two black holes that collided.
“We’re sort of doing what Galileo did 
over 400 years ago when he turned his telescope to the sky,” Reitze said. “We 
have a new way of studying some of the 
most violent events in the universe.”
About a billion light-years away from Earth, the two black holes orbited around each other about 20 times each second before colliding.
Reitze said he felt honored and ex-
cited when he received the email Jan. 6 from the national organization telling him he won the award.
“I was amazed actually. I forwarded 
the email to my wife with eight exclama-tion points,” he said.
His colleague, David Tanner, a UF 
physics professor, helped Reitze and the 
LIGO group construct parts for the obser-
vatory. 
Tanner said Reitze is deserving of 
the award for his hard work and people skills.
He said if Reitze sets his mind to 
something, he’ll make it happen. 
Tanner said last year’s discovery was 
the last step in conﬁ  rming Einstein’s 
Theory of General Relativity and has 
helped to ﬁ  nd previously undetectable objects in space.
“It’s an important discovery in the 
world of science,” Tanner said. “Proba-bly the most important discovery of 2016 and maybe even the whole decade.”  UF physics professor to 
be nationally recognizedThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
The ability to hold opinions is a gift and a curse
We have the ability to form and hold 
opinions. We sometimes take this so lightly, but this is a truly fascinating and incredible concept. We are able to take information from outside our-
selves, interpret it and form thoughts about how we feel about it. We can decide if we think some-thing is right or wrong, if it is OK or not OK. 
Clearly, I feel quite passionately about opin-
ions. I mean, take a look at the name of the sec-tion my musings are in every week. However, it’s not just me. Most everyone I’ve ever spoken to for more than one minute has taken a stance on something. It doesn’t always have to be a big deal. It can be as simple as whether you think what someone says is interesting.
While we are blessed to have this ability, it does not come 
without a price. Our own opinions can become vices. All too often, we let our opinions divide us. We divide ourselves by political party, positions on social issues and ideas of how the world should function. We label and categorize our-selves. We relate to those who agree with us and argue with those who don’t — or worse, we ignore them completely.
Disagreement is healthy. Argument is healthy. The 
spreading of ideas is healthy. However, ignoring thoughts and ideas that conﬂ  ict with your own is unhealthy. 
When we only watch or read things that conﬁ  rm our pre-
existing ideas, we don’t grow as people. Our minds stay the same, our opinions stay the same and we stay the same. This doesn’t do anyone any good. I’m not saying you cannot view media that conﬁ  rms your bias, but you cannot do this exclusively. 
There are so many news sources and publi-
cations available, and only looking at those that conﬁ  rm your beliefs is close-minded and wasteful. Any beliefs you have are direct results of expo-sure to something. It may have been something a friend or colleague said. It may have been based on what your family thinks. It may have been a story or news event. It may have been a particu-
larly great Ted Talk. Just as easily as something cause you to formed an opinion, something else can change it. You may agree even more with a different idea, but you would never know because you don’t give it a chance.
If this doesn’t sway you, think about it like this: If your 
opinion cannot withstand conﬂ  icting opinions, how strong could it be? I challenge you to put your opinions to the test. Hold them up next to conﬂ  icting ones. Compare and con-trast. Establish your thoughts, then contest them. Explain your views to others, and engage in a mature conversation about them. If someone disagrees, be ready to defend. “It’s just how I feel” doesn’t really cut it.
If you’re caught on the other side of this, don’t be afraid 
to ask why someone believes what they do. Challenge them. You may not change their mind, but you will get them to think more deeply, and is that not the ultimate goal? We are not all going to agree. This is why opinions are a concept in the ﬁ  rst place. 
We are fortunate, but we are cursed. We can reap the 
beneﬁ  ts of our good fortune while minimizing the effects of this curse of bias. I encourage you to do this. Challenge your beliefs. It will only make them stronger, after all. If they’re too weak to survive, it’s for the best. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.Survey Design 101
Everyone at UF is familiar with the time of semester (ac-tually right around the corner) when the students taking Introduction to Statistics 2 hit the Facebook group pages and post survey links, urging fellow students to click on the link and ﬁ  ll out the questions so they can properly 
study t-tests. These survey questions are pretty simple, and the surveys themselves are short: “Year? Gender? How many alcoholic beverages do you consume per week?”
There’s also advertising and marketing students posting 
surveys and students involved in campus organizations look-ing to scout out what others want in terms of entertainment. The point is, we here at UF are familiar with surveys. We can spot the ones that are easy to take, simple to understand and have the potential to make an impact — all while being unbi-ased and to the point. 
Which means we are quick to call out those that do not ﬁ  t 
that criteria.
On Thursday night, the Trump administration released a 
“Mainstream Media Accountability Survey” to see what the American people think of media bias — one big complaint of our current president. From a social science and statisti-cal viewpoint, this survey lacks an incredible number of ba-sic requirements. It is biased, using loaded language we learn quickly in a survey design class not to use. It has leading ques-tions, which basically tell you what to answer.  It has ques-tions with false information and no sources: One points out a poll that may or may not exist and be in negation with a few other polls out there. Another discusses how the media uses “slurs” instead of “facts,” but then calls the Affordable Care Act by its colloquial name, “ObamaCare,” which kind of negates the whole point of the question. It has confusingly worded questions with double negations that would make any English teacher out there cringe. (“Do you believe that con-trary to what the media says, raising taxes does not create jobs?” — read that just once, and try to ﬁ  gure out what exactly it’s saying.) 
The questions about media outlets only focus on CNN, MS-
NBC and Fox News (the ﬁ  rst one Trump earlier tried to dis-credit as fake news; the latter two are known to skew left and right, respectively) — leaving out other networks and outlets and not even mentioning newspapers.
And quite alarmingly, the survey refers to the Republican 
Party as “our Party” and its beliefs as “our movement,” which sounds a little too “1984” for comfort. 
From a design standpoint, this survey, simply put, sucks. A 
stats 2 student could tell you this. 
We get it: Conservatives feel like mainstream media is 
against them. But that’s not a new thought. We don’t need a survey to hammer that point across. People who believe there is intense bias in the media will believe it and vice-versa. So hopefully, this survey will do nothing but reafﬁ  rm the opinions of opposite sides. But there’s a bit of danger behind a poorly designed survey — the people with no strong opinion may be led to believe false information. There’s the danger of referring to this poorly designed survey and taking its results as truth. 
If the Trump administration really wanted to release a sur-
vey to garner what the American people thought of media ac-countability, it would have designed it properly. Because, like we said before and like every student who took stats 2 knows, there is a way to do it, and it’s not hard. It’s not just a mis-take; it’s not that the Trump team hasn’t taken a survey design course — this is a deliberate move. For what exactly? We can’t tell just yet, but hold onto that stats 2 knowledge.Editorial
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
“I’m not saying you cannot 
view media that conirms 
your bias, but you cannot do 
this exclusively.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
I remember my ﬁ  rst MP3 player so vividly. 
I already loved the portability of my mu-sic. As an elementary-schooler before the days of the ﬁ  rst iPod, I would grab my cassette player — and later my portable 
CD player — for any car ride longer than 10 minutes. When my parents excitedly told me we’d received a free Napster MP3 player as part of a BellSouth promotion — yeah, that’s a sentence you’ll probably never hear again — I was pumped: We just download our mu-sic from the internet? And this little thing can hold more than 70 songs?
Fast forward about 12 years, and now I 
toggle between homemade Spotify playlists of 100+ songs apiece, exploring new artists and rediscovering old favorites all in a mat-ter of minutes. Unless you’ve just arrived in 2017 via time travel, that doesn’t even sound impressive. In retrospect, though, I owe so much to streaming technology: I’m now get-ting as close as I can to having a personal soundtrack.
Music really does feel like 
something I can’t live without. However, I’m not here just to ex-tol the plentiful virtues of music. 
What I want to talk about is how 
amazing it is to appreciate the wid-est scope of music possible. With some of my own examples, I aim to convince even the most selec-tive listeners to try some new mu-sic — even the music they hate.
I think there’s harm in saying something 
like: “I just can’t stand rap music” or “I’ll lis-
ten to anything but country.” Some music is 
about context, and I argue that you just have to ﬁ  nd the right situation for the right song. 
With hip-hop, for example, there’s a whole 
world to explore and many different ways to enjoy it. There’s nothing quite like going for a run or hitting the gym to the rhythm of Fabo-lous, Childish Gambino, J. Cole, Big Sean and ScHoolboy Q. If you want differ-ent kinds of melodies to sing and dance to, my favorites include Solange, Chance the Rapper, Noname, SZA, Anderson .Paak 
and Frank Ocean. Many of their 
songs bridge the gap between rap, rhythm and blues and funk.
How about country? If some 
newer songs aren’t your cup of tea, you don’t have to write off 
the genre entirely. If you’re in a sentimental mood, try classic artists like Patsy Cline and Loretta Lynn. For more pumped-up country 
rock, take a trip to the coast and mix in some 
Zac Brown Band with reggae hits while you’re at the beach. Even if you’re not into country music, the song “Knee Deep” featuring Jim-my Buffett can roll well with Bob Marley and Dirty Heads on any beach playlist.
To me, blues, jazz and folk represent the 
ultimate form of timeless music: the songs that complement all activities, including walks home from campus, long car rides, reading, writing and lounging around. I think we need this music in our lives. Quintessential blues musicians ranging from Robert Johnson to Ja-
nis Joplin make me feel connected to a deeper 
sense of humanity and emotion. Jazz singers like Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Armstrong and Etta James remind me that all types of melodies can ﬁ  nd their place in beautiful music. And folk music always, always makes me want to take a walk in the woods.
My point is this: You can’t knock a whole 
music genre unless you’ve listened to every 
musician playing it, and that’s simply an im-
possible task. Harness the amazing powers of streaming technology. Listen to all the music you can get your hands on.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF philosophy and 
criminology and law junior. Her column ap-pears on Mondays.
From Adele to ZZ Top: Why I listen to the widest scope of music possibleColumn
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
Introducing Impact Party’s executive ticket
Paige Fry, Alligator Staff Writer
Smith Meyers knew he wanted to run for UF’s Student 
Body president after a childhood friend slipped into depression 
in Spring 2016.
Since Meyers was involved in Student Government, he 
helped his friend get support through UF resources. 
Now, he wants to continue being students’ advocate by 
running for UF’s Student Body president with Impact Party. 
“I realized I was part of something bigger than myself, and 
that led me and inspired me to want to serve through leader-
ship,” Meyers said.
The election, to be held Tuesday and Wednesday, will be 
the first one since 2014 with an uncontested presidential race. 
Meyers, 22, was born and raised in Tampa, Florida, and 
came to UF because it had the best education for its value, he said. His parents, Florida State University alumni, had to forgive him for becoming a Gator. 
“What I realized was, when I joined The Gator Nation, I 
found a family,” the UF food and resource economics senior said. 
After participating in his high school’s student government, 
Meyers decided he wanted to join UF’s SG. He ran as a Swamp Party senator in the Fall and Spring of his freshman year, but he lost. During Spring 2014, he applied for a business replace-ment seat, but he failed to reach Student Senate again. 
During Summer 2014, he became a replacement District A 
senator. He won an election for a District A Senate seat with Swamp Party in Fall 2014 and hasn’t left Senate since. 
Meyers then became budget and appropriations chairman 
in Spring 2015. He said one of his biggest accomplishments was reaching across the aisle to Access’ Student Body Trea-surer Nicholas Carre. 
Together, he said they created a budget that didn’t increase 
student fees but brought in new services such as The New York Times Readership Program. The budget passed with bi-
partisan support.
When Swamp stopped running Senate candidates in Fall 
2015, Meyers ran with Impact because it was created to work 
with other parties, he said. He served as the Senate pro tem-pore in Spring 2016 and is currently the Senate president. 
Meyers, a member of the fraternity Alpha Tau Omega, said 
he served as the chapter’s first sophomore president. Every Sunday, he also attends worship services at Christ Community Church.
Avery Smith, 22, said he and Meyers met during a UF trip 
to Israel about a year ago and bonded over their faith. Their friendship continued when Smith, a UF philosophy and eco-nomics senior, served as a District B senator from Fall 2015 to Fall 2016. He said he believes Meyers is the best candidate for UF Student Body president. 
“Anything that he does, he just puts his mind to it and 
fights for it,” Smith said.
Meyers said he wants to emulate the integrity of his favorite 
politician, Sen. Ben Sasse (R- Neb.), during his presidency.   
“I’m dedicated to listen to every student,” he said. “I want 
them to bring all their concerns to me, and I will hear them out and advocate for them as best as possible.”Smith Meyers
Student Body presidential candidate
As a first-generation student, Mario Agosto has always 
felt the pressure to succeed.
He said running for UF’s Student Body vice president 
with Impact Party is a larger platform to continue represent-
ing first-generation students. Agosto has never served as a senator. The election, to be held Tuesday and Wednesday, 
will be the first since 2014 with an uncontested vice presi-
dential race. 
“I am here to serve,” said Agosto, a 21-year-old UF crimi-
nology and law junior. “I am here to help others.”
Agosto grew up in Bayamón, Puerto Rico, in a house built 
by his grandfather. Although he loved Puerto Rico’s moun-
tains and being near his family, he also remembers being sent home from school after someone broke all of the build-ing’s windows. 
His mother wanted a better life for him and his four older 
siblings, so they moved to Ocala when he was 7 years old, 
he said.
Living only 45 minutes from UF, Agosto saw countless 
orange and blue shirts but never understood people’s passion 
for the university. He thought UF was out of reach for him and didn’t plan to apply, he said.
A friend, who was then a UF freshman, invited Agosto 
to tour the university with him and convinced him to apply. 
When he was accepted, he planned to attend, even if it 
meant working a full-time job to afford it. Instead, he was of-
fered the Machen Florida Opportunity Scholarship, available 
for first-generation students from low-income households. 
“Being first generation, being Hispanic, it’s tough, be-
cause we have a lot of pressure on our shoulders,” he said.
Agosto has held leadership roles at UF through the Fresh-
man Leadership Council, Florida Cicerones and the Hispanic Student Association, which he became president of in Spring 2016.
“It’s given me a purpose,” he said. “I’ve probably learned 
how to work with everybody.”
Jeremy Martinez, 20, said he knew Agosto would be his 
best friend Oct. 31, 2014, while playing basketball at 1 a.m. Martinez, who was Agosto’s roommate, was elbowed under his eye and had to go to the hospital, and Agosto stayed with him until he was released at 7 a.m.
Agosto shows the same dedication and support he gave 
Martinez that morning in everything he commits himself to, Martinez said. He said he believes Agosto will make a good 
vice president. 
“I can tell that this is what he wanted to do,” the UF crimi-
nology and law senior said. “Beyond what he wanted to do, 
it’s something that the Student Body needed.”
Although Agosto said he is sad to leave his position as 
HSA president at the end of Spring, he’s ready to take on a new role with Impact. He said he admired the party because it has completed its promises.
Running unopposed, he’s looking forward to leading with 
his two friends, Smith Meyers and Revel Lubin. 
“It’s not even about me,” he said. “It’s about literally all 
the people who have invested in me today.”Mario Agosto
Student Body vice presidential candidate
Revel Lubin has worn a black “I am second” bracelet every 
day since his junior year of high school, a symbol of his dedica -
tion to God.
His Christian faith and resilience in the face of hardships are 
what Lubin said have guided him through life to leadership roles 
at UF.
The 21-year-old is running for UF Student Body treasurer with 
Impact Party after serving as the party’s treasurer in Fall 2016. 
Because he is from a low-income family and is a Machen Florida 
Opportunity Scholarship recipient, he said he understands how to manage money. He’s running unopposed in the Spring elec
-
tion, to be held Tuesday and Wednesday.
“I feel like my duty, my calling, is to provide hope for the 
hopeless and be a voice for the voiceless,” he said.
The criminology and law and African-American studies 
sophomore was born and raised in Orlando. Growing up, college 
seemed out of reach, he said. 
He said both of his parents were Haitian immigrants, and 
his mother single-handedly raised him and his nine siblings. He 
never knew his father. When he was only 11, his mother died unexpectedly due to a brain aneurysm.
“It’s tough,” he said. “It’s still something I obviously deal 
with. It’s my reality.”
One of his sisters, who was 24 at the time, took custody of 
Lubin and his three siblings, who were minors. Lubin repeated 
a grade the year his mother died and started acting out while in 
middle school. But he found new parent figures in two middle school disciplinary deans, who he calls Ma Davis and Auntie Up
-
son, and his basketball coach, Pops. He still talks to them often.
“I could’ve easily gone down a really dark path or wrong 
path,” he said, “but it’s because of their guidance and because of their love I am who I am today.”
After getting involved in his high school’s student govern
-
ment, he said he helped set up a food drive for students and personally delivered boxes of food to their families. It was then he decided he wanted to help people.
At UF, he joined the Black Student Union and became in
-
volved in its Leadership Development Institute. Later, he joined SG as a cabinet director of leadership development and involve
-
ment in Spring 2015 and Impact treasurer in Fall 2016.
Philip Martin, 20, said when he first met Lubin during the Fall 
of his freshman year, he looked up to him. 
They met through the Leadership Development Institute, 
Martin said. Lubin was always determined to do his best in the 
institute and respected opinions he disagreed with, which are 
attributes Martin said will make his friend a good Student Body treasurer. 
“The way I like to describe Revel is he’s a king: He works 
hard, but he doesn’t lose the common touch,” the UF health education and behavior sophomore said.
Now, Lubin said he wants students to know that he’s there 
for them and understands what it’s like to be marginalized and stereotyped. His experiences make him the best person for the treasurer position, he said.
“You have a selfless leader that understands the importance 
of listening and taking action for the better,” he said.Revel Lubin
Student Body treasurer candidate
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Introducing senators in contested races
SG elections are Tuesdasy and Wednesday
Progress — Kevin Rivera
Kevin Rivera said he 
is hoping to rejoin UF’s 
Student Senate to im-prove UF’s Warrington 
College of Business. 
The 19-year-old UF 
business administration sophomore, who previ-ously served as the Tol-bert Area senator with 
Access Party from Fall 2015 to Fall 2016, is running to represent the college this Spring election. When his old party decided not to run candidates, Rivera planned to run 
as an independent senator, because he said 
Impact Party didn’t represent his values.
But when he heard about Progress 
Party, Rivera decided to run for a business administration seat with them, hoping to work for the benefit of all students within the new party. 
“Progress is more about getting stu-
dents an avenue where they can meet like-
minded people and connect with them,” 
he said. 
Rivera is involved in multiple organi-
zations within the college of business, in-cluding Gator Selling Professionals, a sales club; Heavener Leadership Challenge, a leadership program; and the Florida Lead-ership Academy. 
“I have a lot of love for the business 
school,” he said. 
If elected, Rivera said he wants to focus 
on creating a universal school events cal-endar for all students to use. This would include dates of events for each of UF’s col-leges and organizations, he said. 
For the College of Business, he said 
he wants to put more outlets in the study spaces in Heavener Hall. Impact — Ian Green
If re-elected, Ian 
Green said he wants to 
help business students 
connect with online professors.
The 21-year-old UF 
business administra-
tion and economics 
junior said he wants 
to increase the interaction between business students and their online pro-fessors. He’s working with the War-
rington Diplomats to create more study 
sessions for students with their profes-sors so they don’t have to seek outside tutoring.
“I do not want students going to 
Study Edge and/or TutoringZone,” he said. “That decreases the value of our diploma.”
If re-elected as a business admin-
istration senator and re-appointed to his current position as budget and ap-propriations chairman, Green said he wants to make sure money given to 
student organizations is being spent 
responsibly. He looks forward to work-ing with senators in all parties and in-dependents to create more engagement and inclusivity that will benefit all stu-
dents.
“I want to accomplish all that I feel, 
not only for the college of business but 
also the Student Body at large, whether 
that’s through Student Government ini-
tiatives or through the budgeting pro-cess,” he said.  Green
 Rivera
Business Administration Engineering
Progress — Gantt Meredith
Gantt Meredith said 
he wants to improve 
parking for engineer-
ing students and deter-mine which library is best for them.
The 19-year-old UF 
mechanical engineer-ing freshman said if 
elected to a Student Senate engineer-ing seat, he’s planning to ask students whether they prefer Marston Science Li-brary or Library West as the 24/7 study center. 
While at UF, Meredith has joined 
several student organizations, including engineering design teams, UF Mock Trial - LitiGators and service clubs. He said his experiences in these groups will help him serve the students he’ll represent.
“I’m able to understand all the view-
points from all different grade levels,” he said. 
For the College of Engineering, he 
wants to find a way to allow engineering students to park closer to their classes, he said. He would also ask them what areas they would prefer to park in. 
If elected, Meredith said he hopes 
there isn’t a strong political divide in the Senate chamber and that Impact, Prog-ress and independent senators are able to work together for the Student Body.
“We have to respect each others dif-
ferences,” he said. “As a whole, we all share the common goal of making UF better.”Impact  — Alex Esperanza
After being hit by a 
car on Museum Road 
while riding his bike, Alex Esperanza said he 
wants to improve road 
safety on campus. 
After riding his bike 
in the bike lane down 
Museum Road, Espe-ranza was hit by a car 
and suffered a concussion and shoulder injuries. Because of this, the 18-year-old UF chemical engineering freshman hopes to fill in potholes if elected as an engineer-
ing senator. 
“I’d really thought that I’d like to par-
ticipate in the force of good in Student 
Government,” he said.
In addition to improving safety, Esper-
anza said he wants to set up a time in the beginning of Fall and Spring semesters for advisers to go over what each engineer-ing major has to offer. He’s noticed that 
many first-year students aren’t always 
sure which type of engineering they want to pursue. 
This would help prevent students from 
switching majors or dropping out of the College of Engineering, he said. He also wants to create online advising, where en-gineering students could get advice. 
Though he’s running with Impact 
Party, Esperanza said he could work with senators outside of his party, because good ideas are still good ideas no matter who they come from. 
“I definitely really want to hear what 
they have to say,” he said. “I just think of them as any other student in Student Government.Meredith
 Esperanza
Graduate
Independent —
 Pulkit Kumar Dhir
After Pulkit Kumar 
Dhir’s friend of three 
years was killed by a drunk driver, he said he wants to join Student 
Senate to help create 
safer bus stops. 
The UF computer 
engineering master’s 
student, who came 
to UF from Ghaziabad, India, in Decem-ber 2015, said he wants to implement reflective tape on the sign polls after his friend Karan Khullar was killed at a bus 
stop Feb. 11. He’s hoping he can do this 
through Student Government by running for the graduate seat in Senate. 
“In the wave of change, we find our 
true direction,” he said. 
After being rejected to run as an Im-
pact Party senator, Dhir still wanted to represent Indian students. With plans to graduate in Fall, Dhir said he wants to in-
crease funding for successful technology 
programs on campus and make students more aware of them, like brain-drone rac-ing. 
His biggest asset is that he’s a people’s 
person, he said. In India, he held different management and technology positions, which he said make him qualified to lead. 
He said if elected, he hopes to set up 
GatorNights for doctoral students and or-ganizations to share their research with the rest of UF. Impact — Clay Hurdle
UF student Clay Hurdle is hoping to 
help graduate students be represented.
After earning two 
bachelor’s degrees from 
UF, Hurdle returned to work on his master’s in agricultural education and communication. Hurdle, who is running for the graduate seat 
in Student Senate, said one of his biggest priorities is to give back to the university through Student Government, he said.
As an undergraduate in Spring 2015, he 
ran for the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Senate seat with Access Party, but he lost. In Fall 2015, he served as the SG academic affairs executive secretary.
Losing the seat didn’t discourage him 
from re-running as a graduate student. He said he decided to run with Impact because they always seemed positive, he said. 
One of the biggest problems for gradu-
ate students is that they might feel discon-nected to the university and undergraduate students, he said. If elected, Hurdle wants to work with GatorNights to create an event at the beginning of Spring and Fall semesters to have all students share their research and ideas. 
Additionally, Hurdle said he wants to 
create an event that celebrates all the his-torical significance of the university for all.
“It’s what’s in my heart,” he said. “My 
heart’s not red. It’s orange and blue. That’s Hurdle
 Dhir
Journalism
Progress — 
Jacob McManamon
Jacob McManamon 
said he wants to help 
fund new and upcom-ing clubs.
The 19-year-old UF 
journalism sophomore, 
who’s running for the College of Journalism and Communications Senate seat, said he 
wants to bring more money to the smaller UF journalism clubs that were previously denied Student Government funding. He said Impact doesn’t give new organiza-
tions the proper resources they need to 
succeed.
“I feel like the representatives for the 
other party may not be aware of the issues or even concerned with the issues that the people of the journalism college have,” he said. 
In Fall 2016, McManamon was an as-
sistant supervisor of elections, a nonparti-
san position, but he hasn’t been involved 
in SG since. When talking to students, he said many don’t know anything about it. If elected, he said he will send a weekly Sen-ate update email to promote transparency.
McManamon said he knows all the sen-
ators are working toward the same goal.
“We’re all students,” he said. “When it 
comes down to it, we all want to have the 
best environment for learning and grow-
ing as people.”Impact - Marcela Astudillo
Marcela Astudillo said she has always 
been passionate about Student Government.
The Innovation 
Academy student said 
she’s running for the College of Journalism and Communications seat in Student Senate to represent the best ideas for the college with Im-
pact Party. Astudillo previously applied to run with the party but was denied, so she came prepared with a list of ideas for her 
own platform this Spring.
“I want to give back to the students,” 
the 21-year-old UF public relations junior 
said. “I feel like there’s nothing better than being in Student Government.”
If elected, she hopes to put up more di-
rection signs around the college and cre-ate a resource center for students to check their grammar and AP Style.
For students outside her college, Astudi-
llo said she wants to have a day where art students can paint a mural in the Norman Tunnel to commemorate students who have passed away. She also plans make an event where different councils on campus can meet students and learn about other councils to create a positive community.
She also wants to speak to different or-
ganizations to learn about their needs.
“I’m really passionate about helping 
everyone, and I think inclusivity is really important,” she said.Astudillo
 McManamon
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2Volunteers of America is offering
FREE, ALL-INCLUSIVE 
HOUSING FOR
HOMELESS VETERANS
in a friendly, supportive atmosphere.
Please call Woody at 352-642-8313
for immediate move-in!
2-22-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Female only. Sublease a furn BR in 3/2 pent-house at fabulously close to campus Social 28. Avail 5/1 to 7/31, 2017. $825/mo. Pool, gym, internet, utils & flat screen TV in BR are incl. Please call Tammy 954-599-6433     2-20-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-20-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
JEEP WRANGLER UNLIMITED
For sale, 2016, white 4 door, 3810 miles, 
$38,000, or $10,000 and take over pay-
ments. Call 225-239-8512    2-21-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Typist needed for book. 10 to 20 hours per week , call 317-5427
2-20-5-14
Assessment Writers/EditorsProgress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center currently has openings for swim instructors who love work-ing with children. Must be friendly, enthusias -
tic, reliable, and self-motivated. Possibility of add'l hours in other depts.Apply at suncountrysports.com/jobs     2-24-17-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-161. In 2015, the New York Mets’ 
Michael Conforto became the 
third-youngest player (22) in World 
Series history to have a multiple-ho-
mer game. Who was younger? 
2. Who was the last Chicago White 
Sox pitcher to win 20 games in a sea-
son?
3. In 2016, TCU tied a record for 
biggest comeback in a bowl game (31 points). Who else did it?
4. The Los Angeles Lakers (33 
games) and Golden State Warriors 
(28) have the two longest winning 
streaks in NBA history. Which team 
is third?
5. Name the last NHL defensem-
an before Ottawa’s Erik Karlsson in 2015-16 to have an 80-point season?
6. Toronto FC’s Sebastian Giovinco, 
in 2016, recorded the fourth hat trick in Major League Soccer playoff histo-ry. Name two of the first three to do it.
7. Whom did Evander Holyfield beat 
to win the undisputed heavyweight boxing crown for the first time?
Answers
1. Andruw Jones was 19 when he 
did it for Atlanta in 1996, while Tony Kubek was 21 when he did it for the New York Yankees in 1957.
2. Esteban Loaiza won 21 games in 
2003.
3. Texas Tech, in 2006 versus Min-
nesota.
4. The Miami Heat won 27 games in 
a row in 2013.
5. Nicklas Lidstrom had 80 points 
for Detroit in 2005-06. 
6. Raul Diaz Arce (1996), Stern John 
(1999) and Landon Donovan (2014).
7. James “Buster” Douglas, in 1990. 
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 20, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Soothsayer
5 Quick fix for an
elbow hole
10 Underwater
vessel
13 Cuba libre fruit
14 Lorena of LPGA
fame
15 Phony16 Votes in favor17 “My mistake”18 Rice field draft
animals
19 Panama Canal
nickname
22 Robotic maid on
“The Jetsons”
23 Inherently27 Where to find
Lima and llamas
30 Like farm country31 Thanksgiving
tuber
34 When baseball
closers usuallyshine
38 They’re often big
in showbiz
40 Sparkle
41 “I’m hungry
enough to __
horse!”
42 NYC thoroughfare
that becomes
Amsterdam at59th Street
45 Vert. counterpart46 Gandhi’s land47 Garbage email49 “Get moving!”53 Wash or spin57 When time is
running out
60 Computer image63 TV signal part64 “Giant” author
Ferber
65 Four-sided
campus area
66 Extended
families
67 Cincinnati
ballplayers
68 Tennis match
segment
69 Saintly rings
70 “Garfield” pooch
DOWN
1 Not as forthright
2 “Old MacDonald”
letters3 Webzines
4 Mail again, as a
package
5 Fancy-schmancy6 Have __: freak
out
7 Pulsate
8 Like grandpa’s
jokes, probably
9 Contemporary of
Mozart
10 Jazz combo horn
11 Don Ho’s
instrument
12 “Gone Girl” 
co-star Affleck
15 Mint of money20 High school
junior, usually
21 Merit24 Dickens villain
Heep
25 Totaled, as a bill
26 “Pomp and
Circumstance”
composer
28 Capital of Latvia
29 Sch. near the
Strip
31 “Abominable”
critters
32 Insurance rep33 Paris newspaper
Le __35 Golfer’s starting
point
36 __ Christian
Andersen
37 “Still sleeping?”
response
39 Regular payment
43 Precipitation
stones
44 A pop48 Rescued
damsel’s cry
50 Enlighten51 Throat dangler52 Bicycle feature54 Encrypted55 Monday, in Le
Mans
56 Use the delete
key, e.g.
58 El __: weather
phenomenon
59 Throw away60 Mensa nos.61 Billiards stick62 Breakfast grain
By Mark McClain
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/20/1702/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Caeleb Dressel led the UF men's swimming team to its ﬁ  fth-consecutive SEC Championship. For a recap of the meet, go online to alligator.org/sportsUF women's basketball falls on the road
The Gators lost to the Kentucky Wildcats in Lexington on Sunday, bringing 
their SEC record down to 4-10 with two regular season games left. For a re-
cap of the game, go online to alligator.org/sportsBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Ryan Hall reacted immediately, sprinting 
toward the wall the moment the ball left Aus-
tin Langworthy’s bat. 
As the ball got closer, the William and 
Mary right ﬁ  elder got slower, eventually com-
ing to a full stop before watching the ball sail 
over the right ﬁ  eld fence, about 10 feet from the foul pole. 
Langworthy trotted the bases before being 
met by a tunnel of teammates after stepping on home plate, each giving the freshman a high-ﬁ  ve following his ﬁ  rst career home run. 
That home run was the beginning of an of-
fensive onslaught that catapulted the Florida 
baseball team to an 11-6 win and season-opening sweep of the William and Mary Tribe 
on Sunday afternoon.
“I saw it start to turn a little bit, and I was 
like, ‘Stay fair, ball,’” Langworthy said. “It 
stayed fair, so I was pretty happy.”
Langworthy’s home run came a day after 
he pitched 2 and 2/3 scoreless innings. He’s 
hitting .444 to start the season and his ERA is zero. But while his home run on Saturday was the day’s ﬁ  rst, it wasn’t the most impressive. 
That distinction belongs to second base-
man Deacon Liput, who hit a towering three-run shot over the scoreboard in right ﬁ  eld and 
onto Stadium Road. Those three RBIs led the 
team, while Langworthy had the most hits with three. Freshman Keenan Bell also hom-ered — his ﬁ  rst in college — in the bottom of the seventh.“Those are one of those things where you 
just hit it so well, you don’t even feel it,” Liput said of his home run. 
Not to be outdone, however, Florida start-
er Jackson Kowar was equally potent on the mound. 
Armed with a 95-mph fastball and a danc-
ing changeup, the sophomore accumulated 10 strikeouts and gave up three runs over 5 and 2/3 innings pitched. 
Of Florida’s three weekend starters (Alex 
Faedo, Brady Singer), it was Kowar who racked up the most strikeouts, threw the most 
innings and tied Singer for the fewest earned 
runs allowed with one. 
“After watching the ﬁ  rst two nights, I got 
kinda antsy,” Kowar said. “So I was just ex- Gators rout Tribe to complete sweep
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Austin Langworthy swings during Florida's 5-4 win over William and Mary on Friday. Langworthy accumulated four hits — 
including his ﬁ  rst college home run — during UF's season-opening sweep of the Tribe. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
I.J. Ready went straight for Florida’s 
weakness. 
Down two points with only 30 seconds on 
the clock, the Mississippi State guard drove 
to the rim. 
The No. 15 Gators were playing the ﬁ  rst game since their rim-protector, center John Egbunu, tore his ACL. 
As Ready took his shot to tie the game, 
in swooped backup center Kevarrius Hayes. 
Swat.That block, Hayes’ fourth of the game, 
preserved the Gators’ 57-52 win in Starkville, Mississippi, on Saturday. 
“You just practice it,” Hayes said. “I try 
not to make a big deal out of it.”The win gave the Gators 22 on the year, 
enough to eclipse last year’s win total.
The win also showed that Florida could 
lose Egbunu — its leading rebounder and de-
fensive anchor — and not be doomed. 
And ﬁ  nally, the win showed that Florida 
(22-5, 12-2 SEC) can beat teams in more than 
one way: UF scored half as many points on  Florida ﬁ  nding 'diﬀ  erent ways to win'Kyrie Irving, NBA superstar, said he believes Earth is ﬂ  at, and now everyone on God’s green disk is losing their minds. 
But I don’t understand why.
I think he’s right.In my opinion, the Earth is ﬂ  at.Think about it: Do you have any proof the 
Earth is round? I’m not talking about fake NASA pictures. I mean real, actual, scientiﬁ  c proof. 
Try having an open mind for once. I bet you always accept what people tell you. But the scientists, the media, even your 
teachers in elementary school have only been 
giving you one side of the story. 
You know how I know I’m right?
Because as soon as I even start talking about 
this stuff, everyone tries to silence me. 
Like Kyrie, they tell me I’m wrong. They 
laugh. 
They don’t want us to ask the real questions 
because we’re not supposed to know the real answers. 
It’s like I’m not even allowed to believe what 
I want. 
After all, it’s just my opinion. Ask Golden State Warriors star Draymond 
Green.
“I wouldn’t necessarily say crazy, though. 
It’s just his opinion,” Green told reporters over the weekend. 
“I’m not saying I think it’s ﬂ  at or round. I 
don’t know, but it could be.”
Green’s got a point. Who are we to dismiss 
someone’s opinion? 
I don’t call you out for believing in dinosaurs, 
even though there’s no evidence that dinosaurs existed. 
I’ve seen evidence — from credible blogs 
— that reptilian shape-shifters from space just want us to believe that dinosaurs existed. 
But I would never say you can’t have that 
opinion.
Even if you believe (wrongly) that the Earth 
is round, that’s ﬁ  ne. 
Because Kyrie believing that the Earth is ﬂ  at 
doesn’t matter. 
Kyrie even said he thinks it’s hilarious that 
the media is freaking out about him. 
All of the sudden, these so-called news 
outlets care about him just because he’s a prominent person with a controversial view. 
It’s not like he has a following of young kids 
listening to him. 
It’s not like a random public ﬁ  gure 
questioning facts can affect anything. 
It’s not like he’s running for president or 
something.
 The Earth is ﬂ  at, 
obviously, you idiot
SEE BASEBAL,  PAGE 15
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727MONDAY MATTERS / OPINION14   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
cited to get out there and help the 
boys out.”
The Gators’ bullpen also contin-
ued a solid start to the season until the eighth inning, when freshman Nate Brown made his college debut. The righty allowed three hits and three earned runs in his inning of work. Other than Brown, no Florida relievers have allowed a run. “I’m very, 
very optimistic 
about our bull-pen,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’s just a matter 
of when the light 
goes on and kinda clicks for them.”
Florida is back 
in action on Tuesday when it travels to Jacksonville to take on the Jack-sonville University Dolphins in its first road game of 2017. Sophomore Michael Byrne will get the start. 
Entering that contest, three play-
ers are tied for the team lead in RBIs with four, while shortstop Dalton Guthrie leads in hits with five. 
“We’ve gotta continue to build 
our depth,” O’Sullivan said. 
“We’ve got a long ways to go 
still.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg13Brown struggled, but the rest of 
Florida's bullpen didn't allow a run 
Saturday as it did when it won 114-
95 in Auburn four days earlier. 
“We’ve been able to find differ-
ent ways to win different games, and it’s been different guys,” UF 
coach Mike White said after the 
game. 
“You’re coming off a game that 
was an absolute track meet,” White said about the Auburn game, an up-tempo, high-scoring contest where Florida made 33 field goals. He said the matchup in Mississippi State, where the Gators made just 20 
shots, was equally as intense. 
Since Egbunu’s ACL tear was di-
agnosed on Wednesday, the Gators 
have made clear the loss hits hard. 
“Emotional week for us. Tough 
week,” White said. 
But White added that after Satur-day, the team will have to adjust to playing without one of its key rim-protectors. 
“We don’t have two anymore, 
but we have one and he was tre-mendous today,” White said.
White was talking about Hayes. 
The sophomore registered four blocks and a career-high 10 re-bounds in the win Saturday. 
“I think we rallied around John 
being out,” White said. 
Florida will likely miss the depth 
Egbunu brings most.
Hayes used to come into games 
when Egbunu was in foul trouble, so when Hayes picked up an early foul against Mississippi State, Flori-da had to sub in Schuyler Rimmer, who had played 83 minutes coming into Saturday. 
After a couple minutes of shaky 
defense, Rimmer had to come out, and White put 6-foot-8 redshirt freshman Keith Stone at center. 
Experimenting with the inexperi-
enced Stone at center resulted in the Bulldogs’ largest lead of the game. 
Florida’s defense improved when 
Hayes came back in the game, but he has to be careful about picking up fouls. 
In every game that UF’s oppo-
nents have attempted more free throws, the Gators have lost. 
Hayes said he’ll be focused on 
staying out of foul trouble, acknowl-
edging the defensive burden that’s 
been thrust upon him without Eg-bunu. 
“Now, instead of, like, starting 
over him or playing behind him,” Hayes said, “I know that he’s just not with us.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg13White: 'I think we rallied around 
John (Egbunu) being out'Brown
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer 
Gordon Neale smashed his club 
into the mulch. 
After coming up about five yards 
short of the green on a wedge shot 
from the deep rough, the sopho-more finished the par-5 seventh 
hole with a bogey during the first 
round. For the Gators, it was that 
kind of weekend at Mark Bostick 
Golf Course.
Despite beautiful conditions on 
Sunday, No. 2 Florida just couldn’t 
find its swing as Arkansas was able 
to win the SunTrust Gator Invita-
tional by seven strokes over Mis-
souri and Jacksonville. Charles Kim, 
a sophomore for the Razorbacks, 
stole the individual title on the last 
hole. Kim sunk a 15-foot birdie putt 
from the top of the green, vaulting 
him ahead of Missouri freshman Rory Franssen at 6 under.
“Just too many mistakes. And 
just pushing too hard on a golf course that you couldn’t push around,” coach J.C. Deacon said. 
“We just made too many mis-
takes when we couldn’t, and they 
were all mental. Our talent is there. 
We have world-class players. We just gotta be smarter and more pa-tient and disciplined.”
The Gators finished in sole pos-
session of fourth place at 13-over par. But despite the fourth place 
team finish, the Gators saw four of 
their eight players finish in the top 10. 
Alejandro Tosti couldn’t con-
tinue his streak of top-three finishes 
but still provided a solid tourna-
ment for Florida, finishing at 1 over after shooting 4-under par in the fi-
nal round.
“I think I had good momentum,” 
he said, “and that’s really common 
of me when I’m playing good. It’s 
easy to keep going.”
Andy Zhang, UF’s lone fresh-
man, also tied for sixth after shoot-
ing 4 under in the final round. He 
was kept out of the UF team lineup 
because of a wrist injury, but he 
played as an individual to test the 
wrist. This was his first time playing 
eighteen holes in four months. 
Deacon had high praise for 
Zhang, even with the doubts about his wrist being 100 percent.
“Andy is an ultimate team play-
er. He loves the guys, loves being 
a part of the Gators,” Deacon said. 
“He didn’t want to risk possibly not being able to play the full day… He 
didn’t want to put his own team at risk, (which was) a very mature de-cision.”
Tied for eighth place was Sam 
Horsfield, last year’s runner up. The sophomore started the day with two birdies through the first six holes. 
However, on the par-3 eighth, Hors-
field drove short of the green, end-
ing up in the water and finishing 
with a double bogey on the hole. He also shot a double bogey on the 
ninth hole.
But he bounced back, closing the 
round with two birdies on 17 and 
18. He finished the round with a 71.
The last Gator to finish in the 
top-10 was senior A.J. Crouch. 
Crouch was able to bounce back 
from shooting 3-over par in the sec-
ond round with a 1-over final round 
to tie for 10th place.
Deacon said his preparation was 
good, but it just couldn’t find a way 
to execute. 
“We’re ranked second in the 
country right now," Deacon said. "To be honest, we expect to win 
every tournament that we play in.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgArkansas wins SunTrust as Gators come up short at home
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti sits on the grass at the Mark Bostick Golf Course 
during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational. T osti finished the competition tied for sixth place at 1-over par, tying him with Andy Zhang as Florida's best finisher. 
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
As Belinda Woolcock stared 
down her opponent, she slowly raised her arm to serve. With the deciding point against No. 5 Stan-ford on the line, a packed crowd at the Ring Tennis Complex held its breath. 
Ace.Both the crowd and the Gators 
women’s tennis team roared with excitement as Woolcock put No. 1 Florida (9-0) up 4-1 to beat the Cardinal (4-1) on Sunday. It marked UF’s ninth straight win and extended its home winning streak to 163 consecutive wins.
The Gators 
started hot, 
dominating  doubles play. The pair of Josie Kuhlman and Wool-cock were off the court first 
as they overpowered Stanford’s Emma Higuchi and Caroline Lam-pl. Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan were not far behind as they routed Emily Arbuthnott and Taylor Davidson 6-3. 
However, Florida had to battle 
in singles play. Despite Ingrid Neel’s commanding 6-1, 6-3 vic-tory over Caroline Doyle that put them ahead 2-0, the Gators were forced to go deep in sets to pull out the win. 
Spencer Liang, who filled in 
for Keegan at the six position, was next off the court after get-ting trounced 6-2, 6-1 by Higuchi. Although Stanford cut the lead to 2-1, it was the Cardinal's only score of the day. 
After losing 6-2 in her first set 
against Lampl, Austin fought back and scored next for the Gators, winning 2-6, 6-1, 7-5. This gave Florida a 3-1 lead. 
Then, after an admittedly frus-
trating first set, Woolcock found her rhythm to come back and dominate Davidson 4-6, 6-2, 6-0, giving the Gators the win. 
“Physically, we were dominant 
today,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “Look at the scoreboard, at the last 30 minutes. I just felt like we were at a different level physi-cally. I told them in the locker room. It’s a good feeling when you know you’re the strongest team.”
Despite their superior per-
formance Sunday, the weekend didn’t start off as well for the Gators. After losing the doubles point for the second time this sea-son, Florida fought back in a tax-ing match against No. 6 Oklahoma State to win 4-2. 
To read the full story, go online 
to alligator.org/sportsWomen's tennis 
fends off Stanford and Oklahoma State
Woolcock
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9th
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
One day removed from suf-
fering its ﬁ  rst loss of the 2017 
season, the Florida softball team entered its Aquaﬁ  na Invitational ﬁ  nale looking for a strong perfor-
mance against Florida Interna-
tional.
The bottom of the ﬁ  rst, two 
outs and the bases loaded set the 
scene as freshman third baseman 
Jaimie Hoover stepped up to bat.
Panthers freshman pitcher 
Shannon Saile tossed a fastball that caught the top of the bat just right.
Hoover had a second career 
grand slam that sailed over cen-ter ﬁ  eld and nearly rolled into Museum Road.
“Two grand slams in her ﬁ  rst 
at-bats in games,” coach Tim Walton said. “A lot of kids don’t hit that many grand slams in their life, let alone two in a week.”
Hoover shouldered the offen-
sive load for Florida, and Kelly Barnhill had another solid per-formance on the mound as the Gators (10-1) shut out the Golden 
Panthers (8-3) 5-0.
In nine games of action, 
Hoover has been featured heav-
ily on both offense and defense. The transition from high school to college play looks smooth for 
her, but she believes that isn’t 
the case.
“It didn’t just click,” Hoover 
said. “We do the same stuff every day, and repetition really helps out a lot.”
Apart from the ﬁ  rst-inning grand slam, Florida’s offense didn’t do much. The group was held in check by Saile until the seventh inning, when  junior ﬁ  rst baseman Kayli Kvistad whacked a double to left ﬁ  eld to bring home senior Justine McLean.
Barnhill gathered her fourth 
victory on the year after strik-ing out 12 in 5 and 2/3 innings pitched.
In ﬁ  ve appearances this year, 
Barnhill has allowed one earned run and has a team-low ERA of 0.27.
The win softened the blow of 
Florida’s low point on the week-end, as it suffered a 4-2 defeat at the hands of a previously winless Maryland team.
“No matter what a team’s 
rank, no matter what a team’s record is, anybody can beat you at any given time,” Walton said. “The kids say ‘Aw, it’s coach 
talk’ – it’s not coach talk. We 
have to play well… hopefully we can learn from that game.”
The Gators responded well 
after the defeat, outscoring their next two opponents by a com-bined 15-0.
“The loss was tough,” Hoover 
said. “But I think we bounced 
back well.”
Florida has a few days rest 
before the Citrus Classic tour-
nament in Orlando. The Gators start out their ﬁ  ve-game week-end on Friday against the Syra-cuse Orange. First pitch is set for 1:15 p.m.
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.org   Gators get watered-
down win to close 
Aquaﬁ  na Invitational
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera (right) congratulates Jonathan India during UF’s 5-4 win over William and Mary on Friday.
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
LEFT: Aleshia Ocasio pitches during the UF 
softball team’s win on Friday. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
BELOW: Ingrid Neel returns a ball during Florida’s   win over Oklahoma State on Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
WEEKEND IN PHOTOS
