We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 12 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorPublished by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
First annual Google Games 
The coding competition was held Tuesday, pg 5. 
Performer to speak about psychedelics 
He will talk about the drugs and mental health, pg 3.   FIVE OTHER EMPLOYEES 
WERE POSSIBL Y 
INVOLVED. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
The senior director of UF’s Hous-
ing and Residence Education depart-
ment was arrested Monday for using $180,607.65 in university funds for personal gain, police said.
Azfar Mian, 41, and ﬁ  ve other 
Housing ofﬁ  cials were placed on administrative leave Monday, wrote UF spokesperson Janine Sikes in an email.
The other ﬁ  ve UF Housing of-
ﬁ  cials placed on leave are Jennifer Andrews, Mian’s executive assis-tant; Stina Schoneck, the associate director of ﬁ  nancial services; Kevin Morgan, a UF information technol-
ogy worker for the department; 
Dirk Smith, a warehouse and stores specialist; and Curtis Harris, an em-ployee, according to an email sent internally among UF Housing staff and obtained by the Alligator.All ﬁ  ve employees worked under 
Mian’s supervision and were placed on leave for potential involvement, Sikes said.
A trespass warning was issued 
from UF’s campus for all six, includ-ing Mian, pending an investigation, which could take up to eight weeks, according to the email.
In the email, housing staff were 
instructed not to make statements regarding the incident before the in-vestigation is complete.
Norb Dunkel, an associate vice 
president of Student Affairs and a former UF Housing executive direc-tor, will oversee the department in the interim, Vice President of Stu-dent Affairs David Parrott wrote in an email to students.
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Internal Audit 
began investigating Mian’s funds in April after several employees anony-mously reported that Housing of-
ﬁ  cials were using their positions to 
make fraudulent reimbursement and expenses claims, according to a Uni-versity Police arrest report.
Investigators suspect Mian used 
university funds to buy items includ-ing televisions, household furniture, cell phones and meal reimburse-ments, according to the report.
The audit claims Mian used 
$37,171.07 on electronic equip-ment, $1,798.27 in fraudulent Fe-dEx purchases, $44,910.98 on fur-niture, $24,800.84 on household items, $11,509.83 on items such 
as lawn mowers and trimmers and 
$44,108.15 on miscellaneous per-sonal goods including seven cell phones, internet and electricity for 
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Receivers to open up oﬀ  ense vs. UK
After a walk-off win against T ennessee, Florida’s 
receivers will take their newfound conﬁ  dence 
to Kentucky. pg 14
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
ONE OF THE OFFICERS 
SUSPENDED GAINED 
INTERNET FAME AS 
A ‘HOT COP . ’
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Three Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers 
were suspended within the past 
week after internal investigations re-vealed they were proﬁ  ling, sending crude texts and posting anti-Semitic 
comments on social media. 
Ofﬁ  cer Nicholas Domico, Sgt. Bil-
ly Senn and Ofﬁ  cer Michael Hamill 
have been suspended after a GPD investigation showed their miscon-duct. While Hamill was suspended with pay, according to an internal affairs investigation report, Domico and Senn were suspended for 40 
hours without pay, about one work 
week.
Hamill was suspended Friday 
for making anti-Semitic remarks in Facebook posts from 2011 and 2013, which were discovered after a viral selﬁ  e he took with two other ofﬁ  cers after Hurricane Irma that made him famous as a “hot cop.” 
An internal investigation, which 
was completed in August, disclosed 
that Domico, just after President 
Donald Trump’s 
election or after his inauguration, 
told a clerk at a military supply store to call him anytime “a Mus-lim person” asked 
to look at ﬁ  rearms, so that he could 
check the individual in the computer 
system, according to the report.
The employee told investigators 
that about a year earlier, Domico was in the store when a Muslim male entered intending to purchase police regalia. Domico asked to speak to the man outside and later told the employee that he spoke with 
him outside because he was Muslim, 
according to the report. 
Domico told investigators that he Three GPD oﬃ   cers 
suspended in a week 
SEE POLICE,  PAGE 4T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
CLIMBING FOR A CAUSE
Gainesville Fire Rescue ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters are lead by Marie Goltara in full rescue gear as they climb the 
steps of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 11 times on Tuesday as a tribute to the ﬁ  rst responders and victims. 
Housing oﬃ   cial arrested for grand theft, using UF funds 
SEE HOUSING,  PAGE 4
Hamill
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government Senate passed a bill 
afﬁ  rming UF President Kent Fuchs’ support of 
the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals pro-gram Tuesday night, but not without debate. 
The bill, authored by Senator Dylan Santalo 
(Impact, District A), the Hispanic Student As-sociation President Robert Lemus and Senator Soloni Patel (Impact, District D), stated support for UF students represented under the DACA Program.
Senators passed the bill with a 49-11 vote. Senator Yael Diamond (Impact, Springs) 
said she and Senator Daniel Weldon (Impact, Keys) don’t oppose DACA but opposed the bill because they believe SG shouldn’t take a politi-cal side.
“Senate Chambers is not the proper place for this legislation to be passed,” Diamond said. 
Victor Santos, a UF business management 
junior and Inspire Party candidate, objected 
to the bill because he disagreed with parts of 
Fuchs’ statement. 
“President Fuchs is essentially endorsing 
coming here illegally and telling students that are here illegally that it was OK that they basi-cally committed a crime,” Santos said.
The 20-year-old said he immigatred to the U.S. from Brazil legally in 2010 after his mother saved enough money. Santos said students have other legal options to stay in the U.S. 
Senator Ian Green (Impact, Business Ad-
ministration) said the bill is about support, not politics. 
“The only side of this resolution is speak-
ing towards the side of the Gator Nation and making sure it’s welcoming for all students,” Green said. UF Senate debates resolution supporting DACA studentsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 12
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Ali: Fear Eats the Soul at the 
Hippodrome Cinema
The last two showings of the movie “Ali: Fear Eats the Soul” will be Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. 
and Thursday at 8 p.m. at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre, 25 SE Second Place. “Ali: Fear Eats the Soul” tells the story of two people: Emmi Kurowski (Brigitte Mira) is a widow about 60 years old who works two shifts as a building cleaner and whose chil-dren avoid her. Ali (El Hedi ben 
Salem) is about 40 years old, a 
garage mechanic from Morocco who lives in a room with five other Arabs and describes his life simply: “Always work, al-ways drunk.” Ali is not even his real name; it’s a generic name for dark-skinned foreign work-ers in Germany. The movie will 
be shown with subtitles. Tickets 
are $7 matinee, $7 for students, $7 for seniors and $9 for general audiences. Tickets are available online at thehipp.org, or by call-ing the box office at 352-375-4477.
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad Fair at the Reitz Union North Lawn on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad program directors and indepen-dent program providers will have table displays and be available to answer questions. 
Former study abroad students 
will share their international ex-periences. The UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application pro-cess and to help students find the right program. Overseas in-ternship opportunities are avail-able. Study abroad can be used 
to satisfy summer residency re-
quirements and most financial aid can be used. For more in-formation visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539. 
Free Concert Series: Wild Blue 
Yonder The Wild Blue Yonder classic 
rock band will play on Friday 
from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, 111 E. University Ave., as part of the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department’s free concert se-ries. Concerts happen every Friday until Oct. 20. 
GatorNights: Broadway, NYC
This Friday, GatorNights is tak-ing you to the city that nev-er sleeps with GatorNights: Broadway, New York City in the Reitz Union. You’ll be the star of your own show as you take a photo on Broadway or make your own street sign. You can 
create custom airbrush t-shirts 
or put your friends in a hall of fame with our featured carica-ture artists. Create a set of cork coasters for your cast party or go to the Big Apple Bingo in the Orange & Brew from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. Comedy and music duo Dakaboom will per-
form Broadway show tunes and 
an a capella set in the Grand Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. The featured movie of the night is “Despicable Me 3,” premier-ing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. The party continues in the food court with pizza for Midnight Munchies. GatorNights is al-
ways Friday, always free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event. 
The Fall Equinox Psychic Faire
The Seraphim Center of 
Gainesville will celebrate the 
beginning of autumn with a Fall Equinox Psychic and Spiritual Faire on Saturday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. A variety of readers, channelers and healers will be available at $20 per session. There is no admission fee, and all are welcome. The Seraphim 
Center is located at 1409 NW 
Sixth St., #G110 in Gainesville.
Tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned dancer, everyone is welcome. 
No experience, partner or spe-
cial shoes are required. Just bring a thick pair of socks. Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., fol-lowed by advanced-level les-sons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Find us on Facebook 
for more details.
Talk on refugees in Mosul 
Cindy Nelly, Gainesville mid-
wife and nurse practitioner, will talk about her work with refugees from Mosul, Iraq at 7 p.m. Sunday at the Mennonite meeting house, 1236 NW 18th 
Ave. She recently returned 
from Mosul where Iraqi forces took back the city from ISIS after street-to-street fighting left many civilians dead or wounded. Isabella Bobadilla, a UF senior, spent the summer working with refugees in over-crowded camps in Greece. She will also talk about her experi-ence there. The event is spon-sored by Welcoming Gainesville 
and Alachua County as part of 
Welcoming Week. It is open to the public without charge. 
English and Citizenship Classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program of-fers free English and citizenship classes at the Millhopper Branch 
Library, located at 3145 NW 
43rd St. Classes will be Tuesday evenings at 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more infor-mation or to register, visit lati-nawomensleague.org or email info@latinawomensleaguer.org. 
Hispanic Heritage month: Fiesta 
Fiesta is one of the seven inter-nal programming events dur-ing Hispanic Heritage Month. This social event will feature a Spanish music festival experi-ence. The theme is Vida en Color (which means Life in Color). With food, giveaways and a great outdoor vibe, all individu-
als can enjoy and learn about 
the Hispanic culture. Fiesta will be held on Flavet Field on Sept. 29 at 7 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with "What's Happening" in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day's newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted "What's Happening" submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.  
Correction
In an article titled "Medieval fair recruits actors," published Monday, about 60 people are part of the Thieves Guilde cast. 
Candice Chambers is the director 
for the Thieves Guilde. The final round of auditions for the Thieves Guilde were Sunday, and actors were informed Sunday night re-garding casting. The Alligator re-ported differently. 
HIGH  91° LOW  69°WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we believe in providing the 
best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our 5 year salary structure (Year 2 - $90k,  
Year 3 - $95k, Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - 
Starting  
at $80KFully 
Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-
Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
Crash Increases
Traffic crashes are trending an increase of 20% per year, and 
bicyclists make up 6% of the people using our area roadways...
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedShare the Road and
Check twice for motorcycles, 
bicycles and pedestrians Help Everyone
Stay Safe!
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
THE BIRD OF PARADISE
Ian Mitchell, 24, practices yoga on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. Mitchell, a UF 
graduate student in entrepreneurship and international business, was working on his “bird of paradise” pose.
THE STAND-UP COMEDY 
ACT WILL  ADDRESS  
MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES.
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
Adam Strauss took psychedelic mush-
rooms to treat his obsessive compulsive 
disorder, and he thinks a crowd can re-
late. 
Strauss, a comedian and storyteller, is 
coming to Gainesville on Thursday and 
Friday to discuss his search for a cure 
through psychedelics. He hopes by shar-ing his darkest experiences with the dis-order, it will help his audience feel less 
alone during their own struggles.
He will be performing his show, “The 
Mushroom Cure,” both days at 7:30 p.m. 
at the Squitieri Studio Theatre, located in the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts. General admission tickets are $30 
for the public and $10 for UF students. 
Tickets can be purchased online, in per-son or on the phone.
Strauss said UF is paying him to speak 
but as of press time did not say how 
much.
The show will be a combination of 
theatre and dark comedy to detail his ex-
periences within his mental health and mushroom use, he said. 
Strauss said his OCD trapped him. He 
began to use psychedelics to self-medi-cate, but then worried for his life. 
“I had a sense that I may not survive,” 
he said. “I knew that if I somehow made it through this, it would make an incred-ible story.” 
He said the ability to laugh at his dark-
est moments takes power away from 
them. 
Lisa Chacko, a primary care doctor 
and assistant professor at the UF College 
of Medicine, said she sees mental health 
issues in the clinic every day.
“Anything to promote dialogue about 
mental health is important,” Chacko said. Psychedelic mushroom 
user to perform at UF 4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
did not use the term “Muslim,” 
he used the term “Middle East-ern descent,” according to the report. 
Domico also told investiga-
tors that as a military veteran who served in the Middle East, he was trained on suspicious activity that can lead to terror-ist behavior, according to the report. 
Domico’s manners and 
methods gave people the im-pression that he signaled out in-
dividuals based on their religion 
and race, which violated GPD policy, according to the report. 
“Ofﬁ  cer Domico’s actions demonstrated poor decision making,” the report said. 
Senn was suspended after 
an investigation showed he was harassing a Gainesville Fire Res-cue driver and operator who was dating Senn’s ex-girlfriend, sending sexually crude text messages and publishing an in-
appropriate Facebook post, ac-
cording to the report. 
The GFR employee ﬁ  led a 
complaint against Senn, claim-ing he posted a picture on his Facebook page of Leonardo DiCaprio toasting with cham-pagne and a caption that said, “You can’t steal someone’s girl-
friend. You can only steal some-
one’s whore.”
Senn’s ex-girlfriend told of-ﬁ  cers she received about 40 to 50 texts a day from Senn, and she provided investigators with screenshots of vulgar text mes-sages Senn sent to her and other ofﬁ  cers, according to the report. 
Senn told investigators his 
Facebook proﬁ  le is not connect-ed to GPD, and that he made it 
as a private citizen. He also said 
he thought using his personal phone to send personal texts on duty was allowed, according to the report. 
“Sgt. Senn is correct that he 
can engage in incidental errands while on duty. However, those errands are not permitted if they 
constitute a violation of city pol-
icy pertaining to conduct,” the report said. 
POLICE,  from pg 1Two were suspended without pay 
Mian’s home.
From Jan. 3, 2016 to July 30, 2017, 
Mian also claimed lunches he bought us-ing his personal credit and debit card on campus were business expenses and had 
them reimbursed, according to the report.
Police said Mian used his UF purchas-
ing card to buy $44,910.98 worth of fur-
niture at Furniture Kingdom, located at 1420 NW 23rd Ave., on two occasions in November 2016.
Mian told Housing the furniture was in 
Advisor Residence areas in student dorms, according to the report. Ofﬁ  cers said they 
found one of the dining sets Mian alleg-
edly purchased in pictures Mian’s wife posted on Facebook that showed the in-side of their home and rear patio area.Mian told police he was storing the fur-
niture in his house and planned to bring it back, according to the report. Ofﬁ  cers with a search warrant found some items identiﬁ  ed by UF Internal Audit employees in Mian’s home and garage.
Mian has been with the Housing de-
partment for more than 13 years and be-came senior director last year, Sikes said.
“The university is in the process of re-
covering property now and will seek full restitution,” Sikes said.
Mian was arrested on a charge of grand 
theft and taken to the Alachua County Jail. He was released Tuesday afternoon on a $10,000 bond. 
Mian could not be reached for com-
ment. 
@hoffdavid123 
dhoffman@alligator.orgHOUSING,  from pg 1He bought food, furnitureBy Lindsey Vasti
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite delays from Hurricane 
Irma, the UF Student Health Care 
Center is still giving out vaccines at the annual Chomp the Flu cam-
paign.
The kickoff event will occur 
Sept. 27 outside the SHCC at 280 Fletcher Drive from 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m., said Cecilia Luna, the cen-ter’s marketing and communica-tions coordinator. The event was rescheduled due to Hurricane Irma.
The ﬁ  rst 1,500 students to get a 
shot will receive a tank top, Luna 
said. 
Students are encouraged to reg-
ister online in order to avoid wait times. Those not registered will 
have to check in with their Gator 1 Card and health insurance card, Luna said. 
“We want people to be able to 
show up, get stuck with a needle, get a T-shirt and go,” Luna said. 
Kailey Coughlin, a health sup-
port technician at the SHCC, said two students have already tested positive for the ﬂ  u. 
“Students are very prone to 
catching the ﬂ  u due to all of the shared spaces on campus such as libraries, dorms, classrooms and bars,” Coughlin said. 
This year, the SHCC ordered 
10,000 4-strain ﬂ  u vaccines to use until the ﬂ  u season ends in Decem-ber, said Kelly Mitchell, the ﬂ  u co-ordinator at the inﬁ  rmary. Mitchell said the inﬁ  rmary will order more ﬂ  u vaccines if needed. 
Jess Simmonds-Short, a 21-year-
old UF marketing senior, received her free ﬂ  u shot three weeks ago.
“The ﬂ  u shot at the inﬁ  rmary 
is awesome; I get it every year,” Simmonds-Short said.
UF Inﬁ  rmary reschedules Chomp the Flu vaccines, shirtsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A 19-year-old inmate died at the Alachua County Jail 
on Saturday after two months in custody. 
Gainesville resident Maurice Devon-
te Page was found unconscious and not 
breathing in his cell at about 5:30 p.m., 
said Sgt. Chris Sims, a spokesperson for 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
The detention ofﬁ  cer who found 
him called nursing staff for help, and 
Gainesville Fire Rescue and then Ala-
chua County Fire Rescue personnel at-
tempted CPR for about 30 minutes be-
fore Page was declared dead, Sims said. 
Sims said both an investigation into cause of death and 
internal investigation, to ensure jail staff acted ethically 
and within the right protocol leading up to Page’s death, are underway and should take about two months.  
“There is no foul play or criminal activity suspected,” 
Sims said. 
Page was arrested in July after being accused of sexual 
assault to a victim under 12 years old, according to court records. 
Prior to Saturday, no deaths had been reported in the 
jail for more than a year, Sims said. 
In 2015, there were three reported inmate deaths, two 
due to suicide and one to a preexisting medical condition. 
WCJB reported that the family will hold a candlelight 
vigil on Friday night and a funeral on Saturday.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Alachua County Jail 
inmate dies in cell
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
At the ﬁ  rst annual UF Google Games, 
students huddled close to their laptops, 
ready for a logic competition to win prizes. 
The UF Association for Computing 
Machinery and alumni Google software engineers hosted the event Tuesday night in Turlington Hall. About 250 students completed coding and puzzle questions in teams of three to ﬁ  ve, said Steven Hurtado, the vice president of professional affairs of the Association for Computing Machinery. 
Students had to solve as many ques-
tions as they could in 90 minutes to win gift bags full of Google merchandise.
Caroline Hobson, a UF computer en-
gineering sophomore, said she hoped her team would pull through with grit, determination and logic. 
Hobson said she was excited about 
competing with her team since last Wednesday, when she saw the event 
on Facebook.  
“I think it will give me some fore-
shadowing of what I’m expected to 
know later in the future when I’m a ju-nior or a senior,” the 19-year-old said. 
Hobson said she felt proud of herself 
for completing one of the nine puzzles. The puzzles had themes, including smartphones and Old Spice. Competi-tors had to write code to solve them. 
“They’re really just a bunch of logic 
puzzles, so it’s really more about think-ing outside the box than anything else,” she said.  
John Zoldos, a UF computer engi-
neering senior, felt prepared to take home the title of Google Games Cham-pion. 
“It seemed like a cool thing to do 
with friends while also networking with Google recruiters,” the 21-year-old said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgGoogle engineers host UF’s inaugural 
coding competition for students
Christina Morales / Alligator Staff
Graduate computer science students, 35-year-old Pradeep Rajan (left) and 
25-year-old Harshit Vijayvargia (right), excitedly open goodie bags from Google. 
Page
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Column
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgOver the last several days, even amid all 
of the news coverage surrounding Hur-ricane Irma, Hillary Clinton has once again managed to find her way into the news cycle for the release of her new 
book, “What Happened.” Stories surrounding Clinton and her book reveal excerpts that dem-onstrate her true thoughts on President Don-ald Trump, her now-evident dislike of Bernie Sanders and, ultimately, her thoughts on the 2016 election. As someone who has had noth-ing but political disdain for Clinton for most of my adult life, I now pity the poor woman. To detail her political loss, which was supposed to be the highlight of her ca-
reer, must have been devastating. I wouldn’t wish it on 
anyone. In fact, I feel bad for Hillary Clinton. 
Now you may be thinking, “What the hell am I read-
ing? Could this be?” Those of you who know me are likely shocked at the notion that I feel sorry for Clinton. Rest assured, my sympathy is sincere, and let me tell you why. 
Clinton is a woman, who in my opinion, had every-
thing gifted to her politically. OK, mostly everything. 
She deserves credit for the role she played in getting her 
husband elected governor of Arkansas and president of the U.S., I’ll give her that. As far as her individual politi-cal career, however, I’ll leave you with the words of my former liberal political science professor at Georgetown University: Hillary Clinton’s entire political career exists because of her husband. She rode his coattails to the Sen-ate and the State Department. 
That’s coming from a man who likely voted for her. 
But even if you don’t agree with him, consider this. The national media has fawned over Hillary Clinton for years, and last year her own party rigged the Democratic Primary in her favor. She escaped scandals that would destroy most people (Whitewater, Benghazi, Clinton Foundation). Yet, despite all of this, she still lost the elec-tion. Between interviews and her new book, Clinton has blamed the FBI, James Comey (an FBI director who exon-erated her before properly investigating her), the Russians, “anti-American forces,”  Vladi-mir Putin (she oddly claims he wanted her to lose), poorly informed voters, everyone who assumed she’d win, President Barack Obama, 
misogynists, suburban women, The New York 
Times, Netflix, Facebook, Twitter, Wikileaks, “content farms in Macedonia” and “millions of white people” for her loss. It’s rather bizarre to me that Clinton never seems to assume personal responsibility for her campaign loss. 
That exact lack of self-awareness and proclivity to play the blame game is precisely what is infuriating members of the Democratic Party and the media. 
Need more convincing? Here are some recent head-
lines from her book tour: “Hillary Clinton’s book signing was as insufferable as you’d expect,” “Democrats dread Hillary’s book tour” and most embarrassingly, “Hillary Lannister?”— a headline that references a comparison Clinton made between herself and the evil, murderous Cersei Lannister from “Game of Thrones.” I am still try-ing to figure out why she would compare herself to a character guilty of things Clinton herself has been ac-
cused of. 
As you can tell, Clinton is embarrassing herself and 
doing a disservice to the Democratic Party. She’d serve 
them better to retire quietly and exit from politics. If you think I’m being too harsh, a former Clinton fundraiser recently had this to say about her:
“Honestly, I wish she’d just shut the f--- up, and go 
away.”
And that’s exactly the worst part. She still won’t go 
away. Months after the election, Hillary Clinton is ruin-ing the remnants of her legacy, and she doesn’t even know it. At this rate, we’ll remember her as the biggest letdown who was once a predicted sure thing. That is why I feel sorry for her. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Believe it or not, I feel bad for Hillary ClintonTo put it lightly, America is going through a bit of a rough patch right now. So much so that a lot of Americans can hardly bare to watch the evening news or peruse their local paper as they sip their morning coffee.
Across the country, people are in constant distress 
over the current state of our union. They fear for their free-doms and their futures. As a coping mechanism and a form of self-care, many Americans have resorted simply to shielding themselves from all forms of news. Although we can certainly see where they are coming from with this preventative action, we think there is a better solution: Mix in some humor.
Anything can seem dark and intimidating when it is re-
ceived in a monotonous, serious tone. Unfortunately, this is the way most serious media outlets relay news to the public. 
This, of course, is not their fault. Some news — most news, 
really — needs to be delivered in this way. It’s the way that journalists and newscasters have been taught to present news since the beginning of time. Plus, who would have expected that in 2017 we’d be living in a world where nearly all news is bad news for someone?
As journalists, we are in a tight spot when it comes to 
this. We can’t avoid the news. Ever. Since we can’t pretend it doesn’t exist, we’ve learned that sometimes it’s better to 
laugh at it.
Needless to say, we all spend a lot of time consuming 
news from serious and well-respected media outlets like The 
New York Times or the Wall Street Journal. However, we’ve learned it is just as important to consume news that is slightly less professional.
TV shows like “Saturday Night Live,” “The Daily Show” 
and “The Colbert Report” have  been a godsend to us. Reading articles from jovial websites like “The Onion” have provided 
to us the comic relief we desperately need. Basically, without 
these heroes constantly poking fun at America’s dark reality, we probably would have all fallen into a deep, dark hole of depression by now.
We feel the need to clarify at this point that getting your 
information solely from comedy news sources is definitely not a good idea. You need a base that is factual, balanced and pro-vides you with the necessary knowledge you need to fully un-derstand current events and America’s political climate. If you 
only pay attention to these sorts of whimsical news sources, 
you won’t get all the information you need and you certainly won’t get balanced news. 
Comedy is key in times of upset and anxiety, and Ameri-
ca’s current state is no exception to the old adage. Having the news explained in a comedic way is comforting and calming. It helps people feel less alone, and it gives people a chance to laugh at themselves for some of their more ludicrous anxieties. Basically, it’s all about self-care and your mental health, and 
it’s a whole lot cheaper than therapy.
If you’ve been avoiding comedy news because you’re wor-
ried about falling down the fake news rabbit hole, remember 
that comedy news is not fake news. Comedy news is meant to be funny and can oftentimes come out slanted or biased, but it usually offers only factual information. And, just like journal-istic news, look at both sides. Take liberal comedy alongside conservative comedy (and point us in the direction of good conservative comedians while you’re at it — no, Jeff Foxwor-
thy doesn’t count).
Please, dear reader, if you find yourself avoiding news at all 
costs, give comedy news a try. A good laugh is exactly what 
America needs right now.In times of distress, 
comedy is keyColumnWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
As I wade through my last semester at 
UF, it has become evident that a por-tion of students here weren’t meant to go to college. Does that mean I think they’re not intelligent or competent? 
Not at all. 
If you’re at UF right now or you recently 
graduated, I’d like you to think of where you saw your life right before you graduated from high school. Let me guess: At least half of you thought you would be studying for the MCAT and preparing for medical school, right? That was me, too. Which is ﬁ  ne, because there’s nothing wrong with having your life go in a 
different direction than you planned. The prob-
lem begins when you don’t ﬁ  nd yourself lov-ing your degree and planning for a future in it. 
On my ﬁ  rst day at UF I was sure 
my degree (journalism) was a back-up plan or a means to an end. I ﬁ  g-
ured I’d get published a few times 
and then get into law school and ﬁ  gure it out from there. 
But once I got into writing and 
talking to people, I fell in love with journalism. I’ve spoken to many of my friends and classmates who don’t have that love for their major. It makes me wonder if they chose the right major or if they’re even meant 
for college.
Our elders and high school guidance coun-selors encouraged us to apply to a 
million universities, but often they failed to realize that a portion of us aren’t meant for college.
Some of us are meant for things 
like technical school, or to be beau-ticians. These types of education should be encouraged as ﬁ  ercely as college degrees. 
The important thing to me is to 
love what you do. I hope you’re able 
to look at your work and feel a chill down your spine thinking about the things you do and cre-ate. 
If you’ve changed your degree more than 
once, that’s ﬁ  ne. I've changed mine three times. Changing your degree doesn’t mean you’ve failed, it just means you’ve realized your tal-ents belong elsewhere. This is your life; don’t let money or anyone else pull you into some-thing you can’t see yourself doing every day.
As Steve Jobs once said: “The only way to 
do great work is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. Don’t settle.” 
I hope, dear readers, that you don't settle, 
because if I’ve learned anything from being here it’s that if you put everything into doing what you love, you’ll go places. 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appear on Wednesdays.
We need to stop pushing people to go to college, it's not for everyone
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
“mother!” Review:
Aronofsky’s latest isn’t for the faint of heart (pg 10)Rare Books: 
Matheson History Museum to host annual sale (pg 9)By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Imagine Music Festival, one of 
the largest 3-day electronic music 
festivals that the southeast has to of-fer, is ready to hit Georgia this week-end from Sept. 22 to 24. Located just 
four hours north at the Atlanta Mo-
tor Speedway in Hampton, Georgia, this festival draws students and mu-sic lovers in general from all around Florida. The aquatic-themed event promises various positive changes for this year, including all-night si-lent discos at their campgrounds, more interactive activities and a 
later date (the festival was normally 
held in August) to make for a cooler, more moderate experience for all in-volved.
As for the lineup, Imagine will 
bring some of the biggest names in electronic music together on six different stages throughout the weekend. Here are a few artists you 
should deﬁ  nitely clear your sched-
ules to see.
IlleniumOver the past few years, Nick 
Miller, better known by his stage name as Illenium, has soared in popularity. His melodic dubstep style combines the heaviness of bass music with euphoric vocal melodies and other softer elements, making for a sound that attracts music lovers of all kinds. His sophomore album, “AWAKE,” is set to debut Thursday,  which will make for an exciting set 
full of new music. Illenium plays 
Sunday from 6:55 p.m. to 7:55 p.m. at the Oceania stage.
OttFor the more experimental elec-tronic music fan, Ott is certainly one to catch. The British producer spe-
cializes in psychedelic music that’s 
often slower than other artists in the industry today. His set will no doubt be a good place to unwind in be-tween the other bass-heavy acts that Imagine will host. Catch him from 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at the Amazo-nia stage on Saturday.
Chris Lake
Although he’s been in the game 
for over 15 years now, house music 
producer Chris Lake has seen mas-sive growth over the past couple of years. In this year alone he launched his own record label, Black Book Re-cords. His most notable achievement of 2017, however, would be his guest spot curating the popular “HOW-
SLA” compilation, which premiered 
on Skrillex’s label, OWSLA, in May. His track from the compilation, “I Want You,” has already racked up over 5 million plays across streaming services. He plays from 7:40 p.m. to 8:40 p.m. at the Disco Inferno stage Saturday.
Claude VonStroke
Claude VonStroke, a legend in the 
house and techno world, will close 
out the festival at the Disco Inferno stage on Sunday from 11 p.m. to midnight. Not only is he one of the most seasoned veterans in the indus-try, but his label, Dirtybird Records, will be taking over the stage for all of Sunday’s festivities. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
This weekend’s Spirit Fest will be a celebra-
tion of music, art and food hosted by The Jam: Gainesville and Heartwood Soundstage.
When it came time for the venue to close its 
doors last year, The Jam, formerly located at 817 
W University Ave., said goodbye to Gainesville in 
true rock ’n’ roll fashion — with a three-day mu-sic festival known affectionately as Spirit Fest. This weekend, Spirit Fest is returning to Gainesville.
“This year’s Spirit Fest, no doubt, is a reunion,” 
said former owner of The Jam, Blake Briand. “We’re going to kind of come haunt Gainesville be-nevolently for a weekend and give our friends and our family a place to come back and reminisce.”
On Friday and Saturday, 42 musical acts will 
descend on Gainesville alongside nearly 25 art and clothing vendors, several food vendors and sur-prise art installations. The festival will take place at Heartwood Soundstage and in the entirety of the Historic Baird Center across from Depot Park. Headliners will be Holey Miss Moley, Groove Ori-ent, Electric Kif, Displace, Savi Fernandez and Applebutter Express. Visit The Jam: Gainesville 
Facebook page for a full lineup.
“We’re doing one less day, but we’re doing both 
days more extravagant,” Briand said. “We’ve got a 
lot more art installations and it’s turning out to be an incredible thing.”
As for now, these art installations remain top 
secret. No names or photos have been released. However, Briand said to keep an eye on Facebook for teaser videos that may hint toward some of the 
surprises that Spirit Fest has to offer. The event will be family friendly with activities for all ages.
“We’re going to have a lot of really cool interac-
tive things,” Briand said. “We’re going to have a bounce house. We’re going to have this big sand, 
Etch A Sketch kind of table. We’re going to have some sciencey neat things to look at, great vendors, lots of art.”
Briand said that he made the decision to bring 
Spirit Fest back for a second year thanks to a Face-book memory. When the anniversary of the festi-val arrived, a photo emerged of a rainbow shining over the original Spirit Fest. This memory made the 
decision for him. Briand announced the return of 
Spirit Fest on the spot.
“I wanted to feel that again. I wanted The Jam 
to be alive again and people to enjoy it again,” Bri-and said. “For me it’s a return to my passion. It’s something that I love, after kind of healing over the (closing of The Jam).”
Weekend passes can be purchased online for 
$25 or for $30 at the door. Day passes for Friday 
and Saturday are only available at the door for $15 
and $20, respectively. Special VIP packages are also available for $75 for the full weekend. Deals on these prices may also be found with certain lo-cal businesses and bands.
VIP packages include free craft beer for the 
weekend, dinner at Dragonﬂ  y on Saturday, ﬁ  rst-come-ﬁ  rst-serve VIP parking and two exclusive performances. VIP guests can attend a performance 
with Ricky Kendall and Friends at 6 p.m. Friday. 
Saturday, the Juan Rollan Quartet will perform John Coltrane’s “A Love Supreme” in its entirety.
“I remembered saying, ‘We’re going to pop up 
every now and then and sprinkle unicorn dust on Gainesville,’ and that’s what we’re doing,” Briand said.Spirit Fest returns for second year at new location 
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Spirit Fest, which began as a ﬁ  nal celebration at The Jam, will return 
to Gainesville this weekend at Heartwood Soundstage.
Photo via Imagine Music Festival.
Imagine Music Festival, located outside of Atlanta, will hit Georgia this weekend.
Four artists to catch at Georgia’s Imagine Music Festival  
MUSICBy Anna Burbano
Avenue Contributor
Trees fell, a “hot cop” was suspended and 
Gainesville recovery efforts are ongoing, but an 
auction of authentic alligator purses and Semi-nole Indian prints stops for no one — or hur-ricane aftermath.
Amidst cosmetic repairs in the wake of Hurri-
cane Irma, the Matheson History Museum is set to reopen this Saturday for the Antique, Vintage Floridiana and Rare Book Sale.
The sale, which takes place on Sept. 23 from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m., is free and open to the public. Visitors can expect to look at and purchase an overwhelming array of one-of-a-kind products, ranging from antiques to rare 19th century books 
and vintage memorabilia.
Over 13 vendors will attend, including the 
museum.
All sellers are Floridiana experts, hand-picked 
and recruited from across the state. Most travel 
to Gainesville speciﬁ  cally for this event, rejoicing in the thrill their goods bring to collectors.
Last year, one item in particular drew the at-
tention of many senior Gainesville residents in 
the room: a rare glass framed photo collage of 
Glen Springs, a local recreation area that closed in 1970.
Dewy-eyed visitors who had once swam in 
the spring began to shout out their offers, and soon the Matheson became equivalent to an adrenaline-ﬁ  lled bidding war.
The collage sold immediately.As for Matheson executive director Peggy 
Macdonald, it was a ﬁ  rst edition of Harriet Beecher Stowe’s “Palmetto Leaves” that caught her fancy.
This 1873 memoir, one of the ﬁ  rst guide 
books written about Florida, also sold in record time — for only $75.
“I was really jealous,” Macdonald said. “But 
a lady came from Middleburg just to buy that book.”
Fanaticism runs high at the sale, so while 
the casual sightseer might stay for only half an hour, some avid collectors spend all day sifting through the small treasures.
“Once they see something they like, they have to have it,” Macdonald said, who left one year’s sale with an alligator purse she had suc-cessfully bid on.
(In other words, arrive early and prepared if 
you want the best items.)
Concerning her favorite aspect of the Mathe-
son sale, Macdonald couldn’t help but gush over the variety of unusual and historical artifacts for sale.
“It’s a real feast for the eyes,” Macdonald 
said. “When you walk in, you won’t know where to start. We have specialty bottles, old 
tins, old photographs, postcards dating back 
one hundred years, stereograph cards from the 1870s, and rare books with a regional, southern theme. There’s really something for every price range.”
Certainly, the sheer volume of vintage Flo-
ridiana leaves nothing to be desired. Not even cravings, as light food and drink will be sold to fund the museum’s maintenance and rotating 
exhibitions.
With such a wide range of collectibles on dis-
play, Macdonald believes that the sale is a won-
derful opportunity to build a collection or add to a pre-existing one, and a fun one at that.
“It’s a great diversion after we’ve survived 
Hurricane Irma,” Macdonald said.
It may also bring in a new stream of regu-
lar museum visitors to the Matheson, many of 
whom would beneﬁ  t from the Matheson library 
archives and in-house librarian.
One such possible recruit is Viviana Moreno, 
an 18-year-old UF English freshman who found the event on social media. 
“When the Matheson Antique, Vintage Flo-
ridiana and Rare Book Sale popped up on my Facebook feed, I grew very excited,” Moreno said. “The event immediately drew me in. A Sat-
urday spent thumbing through yellowed books 
and interesting antique ﬁ  nds sounds like heaven to me!”
So, is heaven really the Matheson on a Satur-
day? I’ll leave you to ﬁ  gure it out.
The Matheson History Museum is located on 
513 East University Avenue.
The Antique, Vintage Floridiana and Rare 
Book Sale is on Sept. 23 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It 
is free and open to the public.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
As long as the local art community 
never stops creating, Gainesville’s Indie 
Flea Market, a favorite for students and 
locals alike, will always be a home to 
some of the best vendors in the area. 
Due to Hurricane Irma, the ﬂ  ea mar-
ket, which was originally set to be held 
on Sunday, Sept. 10, will be rescheduled 
to this Saturday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., at The Wooly, located downtown at 20 N. Main St. The event will host around 40 vendors throughout the entire day.
Here, Gainesville residents can sup-
port local and regional artists in a cooler environment than the usual location, De-pot Park, has to offer.
Seanissey Loughlin, who co-founded 
The Indie Flea two years ago alongside partner Rosey Williams, said the Indie Flea on Sept. 10 was the ﬁ  rst event they were ever forced to reschedule. 
“Rain or shine, that’s us, but when 
people’s safety and well-being is on the line, we draw the line in the sand,” Loughlin said. “Making sure our makers 
were able to spend time preparing for the 
storm, checking in with loved ones and, for many, eventually evacuating, was our main thought.” 
Making safety a priority is just one 
example of the devotion the Gainesville Indie Flea has toward its local artists and community. 
Whether coming in to buy or sell, any-
one involved always has a lasting impres-sion from the ﬂ  ea market.  
“We have had a lot of makers that 
have actually started out just as shoppers at our events,” Loughlin said. “We have 
even had makers who have started with 
us and have grown to open their own storefronts.” 
Madeline Bowman, a 19-year-old Uni-
versity of Florida history sophomore, said that she’s been to quite a few Gainesville Indie Flea events in the past due to her love of supporting local art. 
“It’s awesome getting to interact with 
the artist and knowing where your mon-ey is going,” Bowman said. “I love seeing communities come together to support local businesses, and I’m excited for the 
upcoming ﬂ  ea.”
Bowman said that one of her favorite 
vendors is O’Berry’s Succulents, a suc-
culent and cacti dry garden vendor from Saint Petersburg. Bowman added that 
she’s eager to see the plants that they 
have to offer this coming weekend. 
“I’m excited to check out what lo-
cal vendors have to offer and to see the 
Gainesville community come together to 
support art and craftsmanship,” Bowman said. 
Loughlin said that as Gainesville 
moves past Hurricane Irma, the goal for 
the Gainesville Indie Flea Market is to re-
turn to normality. 
Saturday will be the Indie Flea’s last 
date in their indoor market Summer se-
ries, where the indoors of The Wooly al-
lowed the vendors sweet relief from the summer heat. The series ran all summer long with a total of four events, with each one taking place on every second Sunday 
of the month starting on June 11.   
“This ﬁ  nal ﬂ  ea at The Wooly should 
be just as much of a blast for everyone 
as the last few,” Loughlin said. “We will 
have food, drinks and a ton of really tal-
ented craftspeople.”
After Saturday, the Gainesville Indie 
Flea will return to its regular destination at Depot Park, every second Sunday of 
the month from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Matheson History Museum 
to host Rare Book SaleGainesville Indie Flea to hold 
ﬁ  nal event of the summerBy Alex Watson Tremellen 
Avenue Contributor
The ﬁ  lm’s opening shot gives the viewer a 
glimpse into what they’re getting themselves 
into. It serves as a forewarning that watching “Mother!” is not going to be easy, not in the slightest. Darren Aronofsky’s previous ﬁ  lms, 
including “The Wrestler” and “Black Swan,” 
are child’s play in comparison to his latest creation.
Aronofsky’s “Mother!” has been shroud-
ed in secrecy for nearly a year, with an ee-rie premise of a couple’s relationship being tested when uninvited guests arrive at their home. The premise is indeed true, but only describes the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve minutes of the ﬁ  lm.
The couple lives in a desolate Victorian-
era house that is encircled by nothing but tall grass and trees (there are literally no points of access and no driveway). A young woman (Jennifer Lawrence) lives in the house with 
her husband (Javier Bardem), a famous poet 
with severe writer’s block. Neither Lawrence nor Bardem are given actual names, but are billed as mother and Him. 
While Him tries to ﬁ  nd inspiration for 
words, mother focuses on the domestic work while diligently restoring the house, which, we learn, had been nearly destroyed in a ﬁ  re. Unexpectedly, a man (Ed Harris) appears at 
the front door and Him welcomes the man 
into their home with no apprehension. The next morning, a woman (Michelle Pfeiffer) comes to their doorstep and is the wife of Ed Harris’ man.
From that point on, the couple’s tranquil 
existence is no longer, and a steady stream of guests enters the house, much to the hor-ror of mother. But these are not your typi-cal house guests. These house guests lack a shred of decorum, steal belongings, rip apart 
the house, rape, murder and are cannibalis-
tic. As the camera closely follows Lawrence as she reprimands the guests, it feels like the audience is winding through a horror maze of gore and the worst representations of hu-manity.
It’s no secret that Aronofsky is not 
afraid of depicting biblical themes on the big screen, as seen with his controversial 
“Noah.” Aronofsky once again draws inspi-
ration from the Bible with biblical allusions — Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, the Eucha-rist and Revelation — incorporated through-out the ﬁ  lm.
The story itself resembles that of the Bible 
with two chapters that are similar to the two testaments. Environmental allegories and metaphors of fandom are also frequently pummeled at the audience.
At some points, the allegories and meta-
phors pummel the audience to the point of overkill. But, Lawrence’s and Bardem’s per-formances are deﬁ  nitely worth seeing (and Oscar-worthy). 
Watching the ﬁ  lm is traumatic enough, 
but actually performing these roles seems too demanding for anyone. If anyone could handle the weight of the ﬁ  lm’s ostentations, it’s Lawrence and Bardem.
It’s up to the viewer to draw their own 
conclusions, whether they be religious or en-vironmental interpretations. Whatever your analysis, there’s no doubt that this ﬁ  lm will create controversy and discussion — but that is exactly what Aronofsky’s objective was in making this ﬁ  lm.10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
Ride  
Smarter! 
BIKE EDUCATION IN GAINESVILLE
Ride your bike safely, confidently, and legally.
The Gainesville Cycling Club has an educational program to 
promote best practices of street cycling. We offer workshops to help teens and adults improve their cycling skills as well as outreach presentations to inform participants about the rights and responsibilities of motorists and cyclists sharing the road. For more info  on the program, contact Stephen Perz, GCC Bicycle Ed. Director at Stephen_perz@yahoo.com  
or visit the GCC website at www. gccfla.org .
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikeped
WAS YOUR ROOF 
DAMAGED BY HURRICANE IRMA?
The army corps of engineers can provide temporary repairs to your roof.
Operation blue roof can 
install a temporary roof covering on standard shingled roofs at no cost. 
Call 1-888-roof-blu (1-888-766-3258)
 for more 
information.
Call today. If you qualify, 
the temporary roof will be installed at no cost to you.preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTESBy Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance is bringing Anton Chek-
hov’s “The Seagull” to life at the 
O’Connell Center with eight perfor-mances beginning Sept. 21 and end-
ing Oct. 1. 
Despite the 121 years between 
Friday’s opening and the famous failure that marked the 1896 un-
veiling, “The Seagull” will continue to explore the universal themes of 
love, art and artists in love. 
Bearing in mind its disastrous 
debut, it was to Chekhov’s sur-prise that the play (during which 
he spent the last two acts hiding be-hind the scenes in embarrassment) 
became a success. Amidst the au-
dience’s heckling, literary buff and audience member Anatoly Koni felt 
that Chekhov had achieved some-
thing special. 
In a letter to the playwright, he 
wrote of “The Seagull,” “It is life itself onstage, with all its tragic al-liances, eloquent thoughtlessness 
and silent sufferings — the sort of 
everyday life that is accessible to ev-eryone and understood in its cruel internal irony by almost no one.” 
According to legend, a critic later 
called the piece “one of the great-est events in the history of Russian 
theater” when it was brought to the 
Moscow Art Theatre stage in 1898. 
On Sept. 21 to 24 and 26 to 30, 
Marian Fell’s 1912 English transla-tion will receive a reimagining by associate professor of acting, Tim 
Altmeyer, who “adapted it to be 
even more engaging and relatable to contemporary audience,” accord-
ing to the press release. 
Though the work focuses on the 
romantic and artistic conﬂ  icts be-tween its four principal characters, it 
also relies upon an ensemble cast of diverse and developed personalities 
who will explore their dreams and 
engage in conﬂ  icts largely through the subtext of rich dialogue. 
“I think there is something pro-
found about being freshly moved — to laugh, to think, to cry — by 
a theatrical work that was written 
in a foreign land, for a foreign cul-ture, in and about a certain long-ago 
moment on the time continuum,” 
Altmeyer said, according to the re-lease. “I think, by looking back and 
beyond, and somehow seeing our own reﬂ  ection, we feel a little less alone in this world and can face our 
own future a little more bravely.” 
Gabriella Carballo, a 19-year-old 
sophomore studying theatre at UF, knows ﬁ  rst-hand what kind of work goes into the School of Theatre and 
Dance’s productions. She said the 
actors who are cast in the shows have work ethics that could equal 
those of professionals.
“Since it’s my second year, I 
know a lot more people around the School of Theatre and Dance. One 
of my really great friends from my Acting 1 class last Fall, Jarod Atch-
ley, is in this production of ‘The 
Seagull,’” Carballo said. “He is one of the ﬁ  rst friends I made at UF and 
is incredibly talented. I cannot wait 
to see his performance.” 
Performances on Thursday, 
Sept. 21 through 23 and 26 through 29 will have a 7:30 p.m. curtain, while Sept. 24 and Oct. 1 will begin 
at 2 p.m. 
Tickets are $18 for the general 
public, $15 for seniors, $15 for UF faculty and staff and $13 for stu-
dents and can be purchased at the University Box Ofﬁ  ce or online at 
ticketmaster.com. UF School of Theatre and Dance to present “The Seagull” 
Review: Aronofsky’s “Mother!” isn’t for the faint of heartCourtesy to The Alligator.
(From left) Actors Nicole Cannon and Jarod Atchley help 
bring “The Seagull” to life.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other fe-
males. Campus View Condos. Short walk to 
UF, Sorority Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  
305-710-1232   9-22-17-9-3
CABANA BEACH APT! 1BR/1BA in 4BR/4BA 
$445/mo! Furnished. Utilities & amenities in-cluded! W/D in unit. Female only. Great pool, rec room. Close to UF & The Oaks Mall. No pets. Call 352-207-1039     9-29-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
WE'RE HAVING A YARD SALE!
September 23, 7am-3pm.
1211 NW 10th Ave.
More info: thefiatcenter@gmail.com     9-22-
17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     10-2-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
1.  Spoof
1.  Model, example 5.  Tropical fruit
2.  On a ____6.  Upper-class
3.  Causing an uproar 7.  Old hand, veteran 
4.  SeemIRTAES
PLAMSENMGAO
TIEEL
ATNGETN
IOINRGTGRATSE
REAPAPANSWERS: 1A-Satire  5A-Mango  6A-Elite  7A-Stager
1D-Sample  2D-Tangent  3D-Rioting  4D-Appear  B-Palestine9-20-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The boundaries of ____ have changed 
a number of times throughout history.
BONUS
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What was the name of George Wash-
ington’s estate?
2. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first president to appear at a live tele-vised news conference?
3. TELEVISION: In what year did 
the children’s show “Sesame Street” debut?
4. MATH: In Roman numerals, what 
is D divided by X?
5. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
19th-century novel “Mansfield Park”?
6. MEDICAL: What is a common 
name for the childhood disease vari-cella?
7. ASTRONOMY: What is the only 
planet in our solar system named after a female deity?
8. MEASUREMENTS: What is the 
metric equivalent of a teaspoon?
9. NICKNAMES: What major city is 
also known as “The Big Smoke”?
10. BIRTHSTONES: What is the 
official birthstone of September?
Answers
1. Mount Vernon2. John F. Kennedy3. 19694. L (50)5. Jane Austen
6. Chickenpox
7. Venus8. About 5 milliliters9. London10. Sapphire
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 18, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Helps illegally
6 “London Fields”
writer Martin
10 Serengeti grazer
13 French name
meaning “born
again”
14 Goal-oriented
suburban parent?
17 Mexican pyramid
builder
18 Late with one’s
payments
19 Bulb that’s more
sweet thanpungent
21 Scheming22 Quarterback
Dawson
23 Renewable fuel
made from
organic matter
27 Crow’s cry
28 Building guideline30 Tokyo, long ago31 Basic two-
elementcomputation
36 “Want the light __
not?”
37 “Golly!”38 Good-sized
backyard
39 Concern for a
marketingdepartment
44 One of the
Galápagos, e.g.:Abbr.
45 Fed a line to46 Cartoon frame47 Balance
precariously
49 Justice Dept.
division
50 Car stat with city
and hwy.
components
53 Forgetful person
literally indicated
by this puzzle’scircles
57 Fundraising
portmanteau
60 “You Don’t Join
Us, We Join You”
insurancecompany
61 “Monday Night
Football” airerbefore ESPN
62 Lingering looks63 Deleted, with
“out”
64 Scheme65 Wade noisilyDOWN
1 Many Mideast
natives
2 Chisel’s cutting
edge
3 Contest
submission
4 Abound (with)
5 Not connected to
the church
6 From Thailand,
say
7 Like old records8 “__ See for
Miles”: The Who
9 Metal-marking
tool
10 “Today” rival,
familiarly
11 Fish-fowl link12 Hesitation
sounds
15 Beethoven’s
Third
16 Nevada city near
Tahoe
20 Like morning
grass
24 Company with
“save you 15%”
ads
25 Beautify
26 Loudness units27 Astronomer
Sagan
28 Ignore the limit29 Spa treatment
31 Hasbro game
requiring quick
reflexes
32 Unavailable33 Duke or duchess34 Fairy tale brute35 Elongated comet
part
40 Arctic covering41 Museum manager42 Big name in PCs43 Lipton pouches48 Disdainful clicks
49 Like thick fog
50 Passover cracker
51 Needle bearers
52 Grind, as teeth
54 Drive-__ window
55 Youngsters
56 Legitimate
57 Car wash extra58 Prez in a
stovepipe hat
59 Type of TV
display
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/20/1709/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 “More or less”
suffix
4 Rose and fell on
the waves
10 Tax pros
14 Cohort of Larry
and Curly
15 Not widely
understood
16 Boffo review17 Extemporaneous,
as a speech
19 Theater honor20 “Firework” singer
Perry
21 Near-perfect
bridge feat
23 Amigo
26 Liam of “Michael
Collins”
27 Appointed 
White Houseoverseer
32 __ Vegas
33 Peaceful34 Dalai Lama’s
homeland
38 Planets, in
poems
40 Not suitable for
military service ...
or an apt
description of 
17-, 27-, 49- and64-Across
43 Thick book44 Salami type46 Nevada senator
Harry
48 Red wine choice,
for short
49 Laundry service
option
53 ’60s dance 
craze
55 Opus __: “The
Da Vinci Code”
sect
56 DJ known for
playing novelty
tunes
59 Surrealist
Salvador
63 Geological age
64 Beanstalk giant’s
chant
67 Unclothed
68 Like bears
69 Alias, on police
blotters
70 List of appts.
71 English writer
Edward 
Bulwer-__
72 “Oedipus __”DOWN
1 “Didn’t hurt a bit!”
2 Living room seat3 Lift with effort4 Scoff from
Scrooge
5 Calif. neighbor
6 Covertly sends
an email dupe to
7 “The Wizard of
Oz” author
8 __ terrible: difficult
child, in French
9 Rid of parasites,
as a dog
10 Multi-discipline
strength-training
program
11 Painter Picasso
12 Like many nest-
builders
13 Look (like)
18 Tap out a text, say22 Departed24 N.Y. Jets’ org.25 Bread shape27 Bathtub blockage
28 Cocksure
Aesopian racer
29 Library ID
30 Mel’s Diner
waitress
31 Blue toon
35 Memorable
clown36 Disney’s “__ 
and the
Detectives”
37 See to
39 Began to melt
41 Stephen of
“Michael Collins”
42 Locate
45 Grad
47 Pres. before JFK
50 Beneficial51 Fancy duds
52 Pal of Rover53 Perpetrate, as
havoc
54 Love to pieces
56 Pats gently
57 Exam
58 “Think nothing __”
60 Many miles off61 “Use the 
Force, __”
62 Big-screen format65 Masculine Italian
suffix with bamb-
66 Marshland
By Matthew Sewell©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/19/1709/19/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 19, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Football team releases 2018 schedule
Along with the Gators' annual opponents (SEC East teams, LSU and FSU), UF 
will play Charleston Southern (Sept. 1), Colorado State (Sept. 15), at Missis-sippi State (Sept. 29) and Idaho (Nov. 17). Patriots running back and 
former Gator Mike Gillislee scored another TD this weekend. See which other ex-Gators had big games in the pros, pg. 15.By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Carli Snyder stepped to the 
baseline on the right side of the 
court. From about ﬁ  ve feet out, Snyder approached the line and sent a serve that knocked over a 
Florida State defender.
Snyder's serve was a micro-
cosm for UF's match Tuesday, 
as the Gators pushed around and knocked down No. 19 FSU on their way to a 25-21, 25-15, 25-12 win. With the victory, UF doubled the amount of wins over its in-state ri-val, now leading the all-time series, 
40-20.
Coach Mary Wise said in a post-
game interview that it was one of 
the team’s most complete matches it has played this season.
“We were low-error,” Wise 
said. “The fact that we took 120 swings and only hit seven balls out of bounds, that’s hard to do in practice let alone in a match. Of-fensively, we did so many good things. But, again, the story contin-
ues to be what we can do defen-
sively.”
There was all-around produc-
tion from Florida with four players notching eight or more kills. Lead-ing in that category was senior Car-li Snyder with 12 kills. Snyder also had 12 digs, giving her a double-double for the third straight game.
SEC Player of the Week Rhamat 
Alhassan contributed as well, pro-
viding the Gators with 10 kills and 
four blocks.
And ﬁ  nally, sophomore Rachael 
Kramer built on her impressive 2017 campaign, accumulating 10 kills and adding to her SEC-leading hitting percentage.
As a team, Florida hit .317, its 
second-highest hitting percentage  Florida dominates in 
third set, sweeps FSU
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 16By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Florida hasn’t lost to Kentucky 
in 30 years.
Freddie Swain had no clue.
“I mean, that’s probably their 
Super Bowl,” the sophomore re-
ceiver said on Tuesday. “If I lost 
to a team that long, I’d try to win too.”
There may be some truth be-
hind Swain’s words: According to SEC Country, the Kentucky football program failed to sell out a home game all of last year. 
Saturday’s game sold out on 
Tuesday.
“We’re going to have a couple 
of boos and a couple of people that ain’t cheering for (us),” Swain said. “We’ve got a big target on our back.”
The Gators play their ﬁ  rst true 
road game this Saturday against the Wildcats in Lexington, Kentucky, a matchup that has been historically and overwhelmingly one-sided. The last time UF lost to UK was in 1986.
Several of Florida’s players 
weren’t even aware of the streak, including Swain, redshirt fresh-
man linebacker Jeremiah Moon 
and sophomore defensive lineman Luke Ancrum.
“That’s crazy. That’s a long 
streak,” Ancrum said. “I thought (the) Tennessee (streak) was long.”
Other players, like veteran safety 
Nick Washington, said they hadn’t thought about it. And, Washington 
said, neither has the team.
“I don’t think many guys are 
thinking that,” Washington said. 
“It’s not the focus.”
DT Luke Ancrum reﬂ  ects, 
seeks to improve:
Sometimes, Luke Ancrum wish-
es he could go back.
He was selﬁ  sh, he said. Imma-ture. He didn’t seek advice from the older players, the ones with the most to offer a redshirt freshman playing his ﬁ  rst season of college football.
“I didn’t really listen to any-
body,” Ancrum said.
Now a redshirt sophomore, 
the defensive lineman said he has changed dramatically over the last year. He feels more comfortable on the defensive line, a unit that lost two players to the 2017 NFL Draft. His focus has improved, something he said was an issue last season. 
And he’s even willing to seek 
out help from his teammates and coaches, the same ones who told him he had “to grow up.” 
He just wishes he would have 
realized that sooner.
“Then again,” Ancrum said on 
Tuesday, “it’s not about the past. It’s about now.”
Ancrum, who usually comes off Despite three decades of dominance 
vs. Wildcats, Gators couldn't care less
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 16By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Freddie Swain doesn’t want to rely on a last-sec-
ond pass to beat Kentucky this weekend.
“Now, you’re not trying to win by a Hail Mary, 
you’re trying to win by 20, 30 points,” Swain, a soph-
omore receiver, said.
Although the Gators’ 26-20 win against Tennessee 
could’ve been more convincing, Swain said he’s seen how the team’s ﬁ  rst victory has affected each of its players.
“You could see the difference in everybody be-
cause everybody could see we could actually win,” Swain said Tuesday. “It boosted (our) conﬁ  dence.”
The Gators (1-1, 1-0 SEC) can capitalize on that 
change in attitude Saturday when they take on the 
Wildcats (3-0, 1-0 SEC) in Lexington, Kentucky. It’s 
Florida’s ﬁ  rst true road game of the season after open-ing the year with a neutral-site loss against Michigan.
Now that Swain and the rest of the receivers have 
a sense of certainty about who their starting signal caller is in Feleipe Franks, they can start to have a little more fun with a quarterback who isn’t afraid to chuck it deep and let his playmakers take off. Swain said just having Franks behind center opens up the 
playbook.
“You know (that) you can run and (Franks) will 
ﬁ  nd you because he deﬁ  nitely has a cannon,” Swain 
said Tuesday. “He will take a chance with it.”
Franks will take the ﬁ  eld against a Kentucky pass 
defense that ranks second-to-last in the SEC, giving up about 290 yards per contest. And he’ll have plenty 
of pass-catching weapons he can use.  With conﬁ  dence from win, Gators receivers ready for UK
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF receiver Tyrie Cleveland (89) had a career-high ﬁ  ve catches and totaled 93 yards in Florida's 26-20 win against T ennessee 
on Saturday. Brandon Powell (4) and Cleveland are a few of the weapons UF's offense can utilize at Kentucky. 
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
VOLLEYBALL: UF 3, FSU 0 FOOTBALL NOTEBOOKWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
In Week 2 of the NFL’s regular 
season, a few former Gators had 
big performances for their respective professional teams. Here’s a look at how some of those players did this 
weekend in this edition of Gators in 
the NFL:
Thompson and Gillislee score:Two former Gators found the end 
zone in Week 2 of the NFL season.
Bears wide receiver Deonte 
Thompson was a bright spot for Chi-cago in its 29-7 loss to the Tampa 
Bay Buccaneers.
Thompson caught four passes 
on ﬁ  ve targets for 57 yards — good 
for second best on the team — and scored Chicago’s only touchdown of the day. He also had a 20-yard reception in the fourth quarter, the longest completed pass by quarter-back Mike Glennon on Sunday.
This week’s performance was a 
signiﬁ  cant improvement from Week 1, where Thompson had just one catch for 15 yards.
New England Patriots running 
back Mike Gillislee added another touchdown to his season total on Sunday in a 36-20 win against the New Orleans Saints.
Gillislee ran for a game-high 69 
yards on 18 carries, including a 2-yard run into the end zone in the second quarter to put the Patriots up by 14 points.
So far, the former Gator is having 
an impressive season. In two weeks, Gillislee has 114 rushing yards and four touchdowns, compared to his 577-yard, eight-touchdown season in 2016.
Defenders making highlights:Oakland Raiders defensive back 
Reggie Nelson followed up a big 
game in Week 1 with another solid performance against the New York 
Jets. 
Last week, Nelson had eight 
tackles, ﬁ  ve of which were solo. This week, he added eight more, three solo and ﬁ  ve assisted in the Raiders’ 45-20 win. 
On the opposite side of the ﬁ  eld, 
Jets safety Marcus Maye wasn’t too far from Nelson in terms of produc-tion. Maye led the team with seven tackles, six of which were solo.
Detroit Lions linebacker Jarrad 
Davis also played well in Week 2 in the Lions’ 24-10 win against the New York Giants.
Davis recorded six tackles (three 
solo, three assisted) on Monday and sacked Giants quarterback Eli Man-ning in the win. Following his nine-tackle game last week, the former Gator is having an impressive start to his rookie campaign.
Atlanta Falcons safety Keanu 
Neal and defensive back Brian Poole 
had another good week in a 34-23 
win over the Green Bay Packers.
Neal, who is tied for third on the 
team in tackles, had ﬁ  ve solo tack-les, including one for a loss. Poole recorded six total tackles, four of which were solo, and had one pass defended in the win.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
WR Thompson, RB Gillislee score TDs
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After interconference play took 
the Gators to Ames, Iowa, UF (7-1) once again ﬁ  nds itself travel-
ing westward as it takes on Texas 
A&M (4-2-1) on Thursday.
Coach Becky Burleigh, fresh off 
a win against Iowa State, said she was looking forward to her team’s 
second road trip in as many weeks 
when it leaves for College Station, Texas, on Wednesday.
“[Texas] A&M is always a fun 
game because it’s usually a pretty raucous crowd,” Burleigh said. 
“It’s been a good rivalry between 
our two teams.” 
Following No. 6 Florida’s 2-1 
victory against the Cyclones on Sunday, Burleigh stressed the 
importance of situational game-
play. She said practicing different scenarios will be useful for the 
upcoming SEC games, and that 
they’re always applicable no mat-ter the opponent.
“It’s managing the clock; it’s 
understanding what the state and 
the stage in the game is,” Burleigh 
said. “I thought that that was 
something that we struggled with early in the season, and we did a much, much better job this time.”
Burleigh said that the situa-
tions her team usually rehearses include being tied or down a goal with ﬁ  ve or so minutes remaining on the clock. She said it was satis-fying to see that in action against the Cyclones in overtime on Sun-day.
Some Gators got their ﬁ  rst 
taste of SEC competition against Ole Miss last Thursday in a 1-0 defensive struggle in Gainesville. Freshman forward Deanne Rose was locked in several different physical battles with Ole Miss de-fenders in a game that featured 15 
combined fouls.
Rose said, all that considered, 
the preconceptions she had of 
SEC matchups lived up to her ex-pectations.
“My coaches and my team 
kind of warned me about how the SEC is played and how teams go after us,” Rose said.
Rose said she welcomes the 
extra emphasis opposing teams put on a matchup with the Gators. She said the top program in the SEC is supposed to get the best ef-fort out of its opponents.
“You never want to have a dull 
game,” Rose said.
Sophomore transfer Parker 
Roberts, who played for Kansas, is no stranger to competing in the 
Midwest heat. She said moving 
back into conference play against Texas A&M will give the team a 
chance to refo-cus.
The Aggies 
were picked to ﬁ  nish second in the conference in a preseason 
coaches’ poll. 
They’ve out-
scored their 
ranked opponents 7-3, including 
a 5-1 win over then No. 19 Kan-sas on Sept. 10. The Gators and Aggies kick off at 7 p.m. EST on 
Thursday.
“They’re a really good team, 
so we need to get back into our 
SEC mindset and be ready to go,” Roberts said.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.orgGators ready to resume 
SEC play vs. Texas A&M
DALLAS — The room where athletic di-
rectors, coaches, administrators, former play-
ers and journalists from across the country meet to discuss the College Football Playoff is as regal as you’d expect. 
It sits in an unassuming fourth-ﬂ  oor con-
ference room of the Gaylord Texan hotel — the largest hotel in Texas — where its bal-cony overlooks an indoor river. Its carpet is elaborately decorated by three dark col-ors that dance in harmony across the ﬂ  oor. There are 11 televisions spread throughout the room and one large projector in the front, with each committee member assigned a seat 
that comes with a name plate, a Dell laptop 
and a binder containing every statistic for ev-ery team in the Football Bowl Subdivision. To enter, you pass under a large sign atop dark wooden doors that reads: “Selection Central.”
Pretty nice, right? But what goes on be-
hind those fancy doors is just as elaborate. 
I know all this because I spent Tuesday in 
that very room doing a mock selection of the 
College Football Playoff. The committee that 
runs the real selection invited a few college journalists from different schools — among them Florida, Michigan State, Oklahoma and DePaul — to participate in the exercise. It started at 8:30 a.m. and 
lasted until 3 p.m., and while the intricate details of the process are best left for a column closer to selection day, I’ll sum it up like 
this: We were locked in a room 
and argued for about six hours. 
As anyone who knows me 
could guess, I didn’t do much (read: any) of the arguing. I’m not a big talker. But what trans-pired in that room was something I consid-ered remarkable nevertheless. 
There were tense moments of debate, with 
a prominent example being a conversation about Wisconsin. We were ranking teams from the 2012 season (before the playoff existed), and due to very unusual circum-stances, the Badgers won the Big 10 that year despite ﬁ  nishing 8-5 prior to its bowl game.
One person was adamant Wisconsin 
be ranked highly because of its conference championship, while just about everyone 
else said its ﬁ  ve losses were too great to over-
come. 
There was a back-and-forth between the 
two sides that went on for about 45 minutes, and while it was tense, it was never disre-spectful. It was never name-call-ing or mocking or insulting. It was just looking at the numbers and trying to make a case. Even if there were disagreements, they 
were dealt with reasonably. 
In sports and many other dis-
ciplines, such conversations are 
increasingly rare. They happen, and when the College Football Playoff teams are decided later 
this season, surely there will be some ana-lysts who weigh multiple factors, try to in-form their audience rather than persuade it, 
and recognize that sometimes there’s more 
than one reasonable choice to make. 
But thanks to what I’ll call First-Takeiza-
tion of sports talk, that’s not highly valued. “First Take” and “Undisputed” and “Speak for Yourself” aren’t out to enlighten and discuss. They’re about scoring a point over standing on the correct side. Winning over losing. Virality over substance.
In other words, it doesn’t matter what Ste-
phen A. Smith, Skip Bayless and Clay Travis say or write. As long as they say it in a way that pisses people off, it gets attention, makes money and reproduces. And that style rubs off on fans.
This, of course, isn’t unique to sports. 
Whether it’s Thanksgiving dinner with grandma or an opinions section in a major newspaper, “taking a side” is increasingly 
valued over nuance.
That wasn’t what happened in that room 
on Tuesday. Multiple people commented af-
ter the meeting that teams they’d brought in ranked in the top 10 now didn’t even crack the top 20 after our discussion. And the result was a list of teams that we felt both knowl-edgeable about and conﬁ  dent in.
Now, I get it. It’s human nature to want to 
win every argument. I’m guilty of succumb-ing to that temptation, and you probably are, too. But if I learned anything from this trip to Texas, it’s that my list of 25 teams would have been much worse without our discus-sion. And that can be applied to much more important conversations than deciding a mock college football ranking. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Look out for 
his next column on Sept. 28. Follow him on 
Twitter @ebaueri and contact him via email at ebauer@alligator.org.
How do you lose an argument about sports? By trying way too hard to winSweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriSOCCER GATORS IN THE NFL
The Associated Press
New England running back Mike Gillislee (35) runs from Kansas City defenders on Sept. 7. Gillislee has four touchdowns this year.Roberts
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2017
of the year, trailing only its .354 effort against 
NC State.
But it wasn’t just the offense that played a 
role for UF. The team allowed only 32 kills on 113 attempts while forcing 20 attack errors in 
the process. Florida also had four service aces 
to complement its defensive efforts.
In a close match throughout the ﬁ  rst two 
sets, Florida found a way to pull through and ﬁ  nd FSU’s weaknesses. The Gators went on an 11-1 scoring run to kick off the third set and never looked back.
After the game, Alhassan said the ﬁ  rst and 
second sets were used to make adjustments 
and ﬁ  gure out what FSU was doing, which led 
to the blowout in the ﬁ  nal frame.
“By the third set, we had them. We got 
them,” Alhassan said. “We knew what we were doing, we knew how to do it and we just kept on going.”
For Florida State, there weren’t too many 
bright spots in the Sunshine Showdown. Se-nior Milica Kubura led all players with 13 kills, while junior setter Brianne Burkert led all players with 25 assists. Senior Shainah Joseph said Kubura was an effective right-side hitter and containing her was key for the Gators.
“She was scoring a lot in the beginning,” 
Joseph said. “But then we made an adjust-ment with our blocking and our defense and 
we started defending her. So I think that was 
the biggest thing we focused on this game.”
It was the Gators' last match before start-
ing SEC play. To begin their conference sched-ule, UF will travel to Fayetteville, Arkansas, to take on the Razorbacks. Arkansas (10-2) heads into the match with the current leader in kills per set throughout the nation, redshirt senior Pilar Victoria (6.31 per set).
Wise talked about preparing for the Razor-
backs and having to face the “hottest hitter in the country.”
“She has a fast arm and it will be a chal-
lenge for our players,” Wise said. “But I think they’ll embrace the challenge.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org VOLLEY,  from pg. 14
Florida’s bench, is one member of 
a young defensive line class seeing 
playing time early this season. But he wants to prove to coaches that he de-serves more snaps.
Ancrum said he has been trying 
to improve his technique by watch-ing redshirt junior defensive lineman Taven Bryan, one of four Florida players with at least one sack so far 
this season.
But, Ancrum said, he models his 
game after Aaron Donald, the three-
time Pro Bowl defensive tackle for the Los Angeles Rams.
Ancrum isn’t focusing on earning 
highlight plays and sacks, however. He has a more modest goal.
“Just do your job,” Ancrum said, 
“and everything falls into place.”
Tyler Jordan noticing change 
in O-line:
Tyler Jordan isn’t happy with the way the offensive line played in Flor-ida’s season opener against Michigan 
on Sept. 2.
But he has noticed improvement.
“We took a step this weekend of 
being able to show the world that we can run the ball,” said Jordan, a ju-nior offensive lineman. “We have to keep doing that week after week.”
After rushing for just 11 total 
yards in their loss to Michigan, the 
Gators ran for 168 yards against Ten-
nessee, a statistic that Jordan said is a direct reﬂ  ection on the offensive line.
He said the biggest problem in 
the beginning of the season was the line’s lack of communication. But that has changed.
“You look back at the ﬁ  lm and 
nobody really got beat. It was just 
that we didn’t communicate the play 
right,” Jordan said. “We did a lot bet-ter job of that this weekend.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org NOTEBOOK,  from pg. 14
One of them is Tyrie Cleveland, 
a sophomore receiver who has soaked in the spotlight over the 
past ﬁ  ve days after his game-win-
ning catch to down the Volunteers, earning himself an honorable men-tion for player of the week by Earl Campbell Tyler Rose — an orga-nization that annually honors the season’s top offensive player.
With UF’s 2016 leading receiver 
Antonio Callaway still suspended, Cleveland has taken on the No. 1 receiver role. After never catching more than three balls in a given 
game in his ﬁ  rst season, Cleveland 
has led the Gators in receptions in both of their games in 2017.
“Freshman year, I was just out 
there running, just playing,” Cleve-land said. “This year, I feel like I’m more comfortable with the play 
calling and the offense.”
Another tool Florida will likely 
look to incorporate is freshman 
quarterback-converted-receiver Kadarius Toney, who coach Jim McElwain dubbed “a human joy-stick” for his quick cuts and ability to juke out would-be tacklers.
Swain remembers when he ﬁ  rst 
realized Toney would be a night-mare for defenders.
“At camp when he switched 
over (from quarterback), … he was running little routes and mak-ing people miss,” Swain said. “I don’t think he has any ACLs to be honest with you.”
Toney's elusiveness makes him 
one of the most explosive players on the team with big-play poten-tial. Of his six catches so far, two have gone for 19 yards or more.   But Franks and his receivers 
won’t be able to waltz in and win by 30 easily. While Kentucky’s pass defense ranks low in the SEC, McElwain said the Wildcats are adept at disguising coverages to confuse young quarterbacks, something Franks, a redshirt fresh-man, will have to watch out for. Kentucky’s defensive backs are 
also some of the tallest in the con-
ference, and Swain said they’re physical to the point where they can run you off your route.
But after coming off a statement 
win against Tennessee, Swain has no doubts about his offense's odds against Kentucky's secondary.
“Yeah they’re big DBs,” he said. 
“Ain’t nothing we can’t handle.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org 
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UF boasts weapons in receiving corpsAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators All-American middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan helped UF beat the Seminoles 
in straight sets on Tuesday night. "By the third set, we had them, " Alhassan said.
