We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 128 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
Gymnastics coach keeping UF elite
Second-year coach Jenny Rowland has Florida 
back in the postseason, pg. 16
Gainesville closing in on biomass purchase
 The current price tag is set at $750 million, pg. 4
UF Law professors dispute state attorney ouster
They argue Gov. Rick Scott overstepped authority, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Three UF students were among 
more than a dozen men arrested 
earlier this month for attempting to solicit sex with minors in a ﬁ  ve-day undercover operation, ofﬁ  cials said 
Tuesday.
Fifteen Florida men, including 
the students, were arrested during 
the sting, dubbed Operation Resil-ient, which was carried out by 46 law enforcement agents from seven agencies, including the Federal Bu-reau of Investigation, the Florida De-partment of Law Enforcement and Gainesville Police, said GPD spokes-person Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
During the operation, which ran 
from March 15 to March 20, under-
cover ofﬁ  cers posed as teenagers be-
tween the ages of 13 and 14, or as guardians of the children, and met with the men on an unknown social networking site, according to arrest reports. 
The men — seven of whom live in Gainesville — all traveled within the state’s borders with the intent of meeting the teenagers for sexual acts, according to the reports.
Police arrested three UF students: Hongyan Huang, 22, Siddhartha Jain, 27, and  Quinton Marcus Reddick, 22. 
Authorities ar-
rested Reddick at 
a Kangaroo Ex-
press gas station 
on Southwest 
34th Street on March 17 and Huang on March 19 at a Winn-Dixie super-market, located at 2002 SW 34th St., after they reportedly contacted ofﬁ  -cers who were posing as 14-year-old boys. Reddick is a computer science junior in Innovation Academy and Huang is a master’s student studying information systems and operations 
management in the Warrington Col-
lege of Business Administration, said UF spokesperson John Hines. Reddick traveled nearly three miles to meet with who he thought was a young boy after exchanging texts, according to an arrest report.
 GPD: UF students arrested in undercover sex sting 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Conor MacDonnell, a 25-year-old UF soil and water science graduate student, receives a free bicycle 
helmet at the Keep Calm and Helmet On event held by UF Campus Diplomats, Alpha Epsilon Delta, Florida Pedestrian and Bicycling Safety and Regional Transit System. Paul Simpson, a 50-year-old PedBike Safety Resource Center employee, demonstrated how to properly strap a helmet.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
About ﬁ  ve months after a UF stu-
dent riding her bicycle near Midtown 
was killed by a garbage truck, one 
of her best friends hopes to teach his peers at UF about bicycle safety.
Abigail Dougherty, a 20-year-old 
UF applied physiology and kinesiol-
ogy senior, died following the Octo-
ber 28 accident, one that shook the Student Body over the next days. 
She had been a proponent of im-
proving Gainesville’s bicycle lanes and overall bicycle safety, said her friend Aditya Mahadevan.
In her honor, Mahadevan, 20, 
teamed up with UF Campus Diplo-mats, Alpha Epsilon Delta, Florida 
Pedestrian and Bicycling Safety and 
Regional Transit System to organize 
a bicycle safety event on the Plaza of 
the Americas.
“I wanted her life to have a broad-
er impact,” the 20-year-old said.The organizations gave students 
brochures with bicycle safety infor-mation, and the Florida Pedestrian and Bicycling Safety gave away 80 helmets.
Event organizers held a rafﬂ  e, 
which students could enter after re-ceiving two safety brochures. Stu-
dents got brochures after answering 
a question about bicycle safety, re-ceiving a helmet or writing a safety 
tip on a whiteboard and taking a pic-
ture with it. 
The rafﬂ  e prizes were eight $10 
and $15 gift cards from restaurants like Starbucks, Cold Stone Creamery 
and Cookiegazm.
Paul Simpson, the Florida Pedes-
trian and Bicycling Safety operations 
manager, said the red and black hel-
mets, made from a dense foam with 
a plastic shell, were funded through a Florida Department of Transporta-
tion grant.
Simpson said he adjusted helmets  After student death, 
bicycle safety a focus
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Prominent conservative speaker 
Ben Shapiro will address UF students 
about differences between left and right political ideologies on Monday.
Shapiro will be paid $20,000 for 
the event, held in the University Auditorium. Accent Speakers Bu-reau will cover $15,000, while the UF chapter of Young Americans for Freedom will pay the remaining $5,000, said Accent Chairman Mike Greenberg. 
“Believe it or not, he’s probably 
the most requested speaker that we’ve had via our website and Face-book suggestions,” Greenberg said. 
Doors will open at 6:30 p.m. and 
the event starts at 7 p.m. Shapiro will speak for about 30 to 40 minutes with a 30-minute Q&A afterward.
Only 750 tickets are available due 
to auditorium capacity, Greenberg said. Beginning Monday at noon, UF students can get up to two free tick-ets each with their 
Gator 1 Cards at 
the University 
Auditorium box ofﬁ  ce. At 6 p.m., the general public can get tickets if any are left.
Greenberg  
said Shapiro will 
talk about national politics on col-lege campuses and differences be-tween liberal and conservative be-liefs in government.
Jarod Atchley, a UF theatre 
performance freshman, said even though his ideals are liberal, he’s considering attending Shapiro’s talk.
“It’s important to see the other 
side and what their perspective is,” the 19-year-old said. “It’s important 
for us to understand each other.”
  @taveljimena
 jtavel@alligator.org
Conservative political commentator to speak at UFSEE STING,  PAGE 4
SEE SAFETY,  PAGE 4Huang
 Reddick
 Jain
Shapiro
Ben Shapiro will be paid $20,000Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  90° LOW  59°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Our Fake Democracy
Today at 6:30 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union, Room G320, Democracy Matters UF is orga-nizing an event called Our Fake 
Democracy, where there will 
be a panel discussion on non-partisan democratic values and institutions that are under at-tack and are eroding in contem-porary times. These institutions include voting rights, obstruc-tionism and big money in poli-tics. The panel will include a 
student, professor and commu-
nity activist. Afterward, there will be action tables where par-ticipants can move and act on the democratic institutions the panel discussed. People can call or write their representatives, sign petitions and join other po-litical organizations.
Visiting Artist Lecture with 
Adam Brown The UF School of Art + Art History is proud to present visit-ing artist Adam Brown as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series on Thursday, at 6 p.m. in Fine Arts Building B, 
Room 103 (FAB 103). Brown’s 
visit is generously supported by contributions from UF College of the Arts Council Members Lois and Mark Rule, UF Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere (Rothman Endowment), UF Biodiversity Institute, UF Genetics Institute (UFGI) and 
UF Biology Department. For 
more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
EACN 20th Annual Glow Run
The 20th Annual Equal Access Clinic 5K Race will be a “glow run” and will take place Saturday at 7 p.m. at the 
Southwest Recreation Center. 
The EACN is a network of stu-dent-run free health care clinics established by the UF College of Medicine. The clinics are made possible through the generous contributions of student and faculty volunteers, as well as funding from the community. 
Register for the EACN 5K Glow 
Run at equalaccess5k.itsyour-race.com. Registration will be $20 for children and $25 for adults for pre-entry until 11:59 p.m. Friday. Race-day entry will be $25 for children and $30 for adults.
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels, including first-time dancers. Classes will take place in Dance Studio A in the Reitz Union on Sundays. The begin-ners class will start at 6:15 p.m., followed by an intermediate/
advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be 
sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, ballet, salsa shoes or even a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week, April 3 to April 7The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s sec-ond annual Graduate Student Appreciation Week. This weeklong event is designed to celebrate the accomplish-ments and contributions of 
more than 12,000 UF graduate 
students. The week will show-case the work of UF’s gradu-ate students and highlight the services they provide to the university and the community through research, teaching and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, 
Graduate Wellness Day with the 
Counseling & Wellness Center, professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student or-ganization showcase, an ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut 
Spring game. To learn more, 
please visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual ViolenceJoin Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, the UF Student 
Health Care Center and plan-
ning partners as they Take Back the Night to demonstrate sup-port for sexual violence survi-vors, share stories and create a culture of care. The event will take place on April 5 at 5:30 p.m. on Norman Field. It in-volves a 1-mile march around 
campus that ends with an open 
mic event. There will be speak-ers, resources for survivors, free T-shirts, food and amaz-ing performers. Learn more at www.facebook.com/StriveUF or email RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as Connecting the Living to the DeadA historian of the Islamic world, France and medicine from McMaster University will give a free public lecture April 6 at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Ellen Amster will discuss the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in precolonial Morocco. For Muslim pilgrims visiting the 
tombs of the saints, these holy 
bodies offered cures by link-ing heaven and Earth. These traditions and beliefs were challenged by French colonial-ism and notions of science in the late 19th century and early 20th century. This event is the seventh in an eight-part series 
called “Death: Confronting the 
Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars and filmmakers explore unique cultural and historical confron-tations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion.
University Galleries presents: 
‘Currents 2017’University Galleries and student organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present “Currents 2017 Perception: Color and Content” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until April 19. 
“Currents” is an annual nation-
al juried exhibition co-juried by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. “Perception: Color and Content” is thematically focused on the idea of how perception of color can change the way content is perceived. This important annu-al exhibition selects jurors and 
addresses contemporary themes 
in ceramic art. “Currents 2017” will expand the educational ex-perience for students in UF’s School of Art + Art History and engage the public with color and content within contempo-rary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening reception are free 
and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 128WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
After his arrest, Reddick told po-
lice he wasn’t going to have sex with 
the boy, and he only wanted to talk 
to him, according to the report.
At the same Southwest 34th 
Street Kangaroo gas station, police 
arrested Jain on March 16 after he reportedly told an undercover officer posing as a 14-year-old girl he want-ed to engage in oral sex, according to an arrest report. Jain is also a UF master’s student studying informa-
tion systems and operations man-
agement at Warrington, Hines said.
Police arrested Huang after he 
told an undercover officer online who was posing as a 14-year-old boy that he wanted to perform oral sex on him, according to an arrest report. 
Hines said the three student sus-
pects have trespass warnings against them on campus.
The other men arrested are as 
follows: German Daniel Varela, 36; Zachery Reid Page, 22; Darren Gene Lunbery, 47; Jack Denby Bergstress-er Jr., 59; Edwin Cantero Hernandez, 56; Ray Steven Wood, 43; Cristian Omar Torres-Vega, 22; Joshua Tyler Gillen, 25; Jackie Lamar Bush II, 24; Doe Doe, 39; Scott Terry Kravatz, 38; and Toddrick Lavonne Speights, 20.
All of the men were arrested on 
charges of soliciting a child to com-
mit a sexual act, traveling to meet a 
minor for unlawful sexual contact and unlawful use of a phone, ac-cording to the reports. Lunbery was also charged with resisting an offi-cer after he pulled away as officers tried to arrest him, according to the report. In the struggle, he pulled the trigger of an officer’s taser, which 
was attached to the officer’s vest.
Lunbery, Reddick, Bergstresser, 
Hernandez, Wood, Gillen, Huang, 
Bush, Kravatz and Speights remain in Alachua County Jail in lieu of bonds ranging from $45,000 to $450,000.
Varela, Jain, Page and Torres-Ve-
ga were released from jail on bonds ranging from $45,000 to $90,000.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
STING,  from pg.1The accused students have been trespassed from UF’s campusBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The City of Gainesville is on its 
way to purchasing the privately owned Gainesville Renewable En-ergy Center, or GREC.
After months of negotiating, 
officials from both Gainesville Regional Utilities and GREC came to the nonbinding agreement that GRU may purchase the privately owned biomass plant, located at 11201 NW 13th St., for $750 mil-lion.
The possible acquisition could 
reduce electricity rates for GRU customers by 8 to 10 percent, said GRU communications specialist Lauren Munsey.
On March 22, GRU General 
Manager Edward Bielarski and GREC Chief Executive Officer James Gordon signed a memoran-
dum of understanding. 
The city must approve the 
memorandum before April 21. If 
it is approved, both parties will have four months to finalize the deal.
At-large City Commissioner 
Helen Warren said Bielarski con-sistently updated the commission 
on negotiations with GREC, and so far, she said she’s pleased with 
the direction of the deal.
“This is a good start,” Warren 
said. “I’m real happy to see us get to this point.”
Warren said she wants com-
munity members to know that 
the purchase is not yet final, and 
GRU will be conducting thorough inspections of GREC’s facilities during the four months the com-mission has to approve the mem-orandum of understanding.
“All the equipment will be 
tested to verify its working order and that there isn’t some part of 
the system that will need mainte-nance right away,” Warren said. 
“I think it’s going to be good to have those four months to make sure it’s a win-win for both GRU and GREC.”
Warren said because many 
people in the community have 
concerns about the city’s acquisi-
tion of the plant, the city will be as transparent with the negotia-tions as possible.
“One of the most important 
things for everybody to under-stand is that there will be a com-munity conversation about this,” Warren said. “There will be open 
transparency so we can get input and people will feel comfortable 
with the city moving forward.”
In an effort to be more trans-
parent, GRU launched the website whybuygrec.com, which includes 
a copy of the memorandum as 
well as facts and figures regarding the purchase, Munsey said.
“We want to make it as trans-
parent and understandable as we can, because it’s a lot of numbers, a lot of history,” Munsey said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
Gainesville moves closer to purchasing biomass plant
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A small fire started in the kitchen of Reg-
gae Shack Cafe on Tuesday afternoon.
At about 12:30 p.m., one of the burn-
ers in the kitchen caught fire, said owner 
Omar Oselimo. Kitchen staff called 911, and Gainesville Fire Rescue quickly put out the flames. The restaurant had not reopened as of Tuesday.
No customers were in the restaurant dur-
ing the fire, and it closed shortly after, Ose-
limo said.
The restaurant’s manager called Oseli-
mo, who then rushed over to the restaurant, located at 619 W. University Ave.
“I didn’t know what to expect,” he said. Oselimo said he was relieved the fire 
didn’t damage more of the restaurant. The cause of the fire and damage costs are un-
known.
“I was happy it wasn’t so bad,” he said. 
“Hats off to GFR for their quick response.”
Dominic and Astrid Gosein drove from 
Williston to the restaurant at about 1:30 p.m., hungry for oxtail and goat curry. The couple, who are from Trinidad and Tobago, and Haiti, wanted to treat their son to Carib-bean food.
“We wanted to show him real Caribbean 
spice,” Astrid Gosein said.
Instead, they were greeted by the smell 
of smoke and no food. They said they would visit another restaurant instead. 
“It’s not the same but it’s just one of 
those things,” Dominic Gosein said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgKitchen fire causes minor 
damages at Reggae Shack
SENATORS ALSO APPROVED 
FUNDING REQUESTS FOR FOUR 
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Senate unanimously ap-
proved adding $10,000 to fund requests 
through the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 on Tuesday. 
The Senate budget started off the fiscal 
year with $7,000 for these requests, which are almost exclusively for interpreters, said James Tyger, the associate director of Stu-dent Government advising and operations. But this year, the budget for these requests ran dry, and senators unanimously approved 
to transfer $10,000 from SG’s reserves to ful-
fill the rest of the fiscal year’s requests. 
“(The transfer is) making sure we cover the additional requests that come in for the rest of the fiscal year,” Tyger said. 
Money leftover from the transfer will roll-
over into the next fiscal year, he said.
In addition to the transfer approval, Sen-
ate also unanimously approved four student organization funding requests. 
Senators unanimously approved $922 for 
the Latino-Hispanic Organization of Graduate 
Students, $1,350 for Layalena Dabke Team, a 
student dance team, $490 for Delight Minis-tries, a women’s Christian organization, and $474 for the Nepalese Student Association. 
Allocations Vice Chair Trevor Pope (Im-
pact, District C) said he was happy his com-mittee could provide the funding, especially to the Nepalese Student Association because the organization had to go through the com-
mittee several times. 
“We’re just really excited to fund them,” 
he said. “They deserve it.” Senate transfers $10,000 to 
fund Disability Act requests
for students so they knew how to 
wear them correctly. 
“You know, you spend 60 to 80 
thousand dollars on your school, you might as well protect your brain,” 
Simpson said he told students.Kevin Kim, a UF chemical en-
gineering junior who helped orga-
nize the event, said he never knew Dougherty personally. 
Kim, Mahadevan’s mentor in 
their pre-health fraternity, Alpha Ep-silon Delta, said Dougherty’s death reminded him of a high-school friend who died in a car crash. 
He wanted to help students learn 
to be safe on the road.
“I thought the only way to get 
people reeled in to bicycle safety was giving them free stuff,” the 21-year-old said.
Yajaira Varillas, a UF chemical engineering junior, received a free helmet on her way to Smathers Li-brary, which she’ll need after pur-chasing a bicycle soon, she said. 
“I learned people don’t re-
ally watch out for cyclists, but they should,” the 22-year-old said. 
Mahadevan said he appreci-ated seeing students come together to learn about bicycle safety after Dougherty’s death.
“She’d be happy that something 
positive came out of it,” Mahadevan said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@aligator.org
SAFETY,  from pg.1The organizations handed out 28 bicycle helmets at the event
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured are the men arrested during Operation Resilient.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Spencer Thompson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The endangered species list has 
a new addition: the rusty patched 
bumblebee.
Since the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service added the bee to the list on March 21, researchers and conser-vationists have been working to 
find a solution to the species’ rapid 
population decline.
This is the first time any type 
of bumblebee has become endan-gered. 
Georgia Parham, a spokesperson 
for Fish and Wildlife Services, said 
the rusty patched bumblebee once dwelled in states between Connect-icut and South Dakota, even reach-
ing provinces in Canada, but it has 
never reached Florida. Now, the bee barely inhabits nine states as its population has decreased more than 90 percent in the last 20 years. 
“It’s abundance has gone down 
dramatically in a relatively short period of time,” Parham said. “And basically that’s what we cited when 
we listed it (on the endangered spe-
cies list).”
The bumblebee is responsible 
for pollinating crops that grow 
fruits and vegetables such as toma-
toes, cranberries and peppers. 
About 30 percent of food is 
dependent on the ability of bees 
to pollinate the crops, said Tony Hogg, president of the Florida State Beekeepers Association. Hogg said about 44 percent of the bee popu-lation declined last year, and he thinks this could become a serious 
issue.
“I think people are aware of the 
problem,” he said. “I don’t think 
the vast majority is aware of the significance of the problem.”
Both Hogg and Josh Campbell, a 
postdoctoral associate researcher in UF’s Entomology and Nematology Department, said some of the prob-lems are because of lack of research and knowledge on the insect. 
Campbell said he thinks the 
first step in solving this problem is to figure out what’s causing the rusty patched bumblebee’s declin-ing population. Once that’s discov-
ered, Campbell hopes to apply that 
knowledge to other species of bees. 
“If we can figure out what’s 
causing this bee’s decline, most 
likely whatever the culprit or cul-
prits are are also causing other spe-
cies’ declines,” he said. “Conserva-
tion strategies that go into aiding this particular bee will probably aid dozens or maybe hundreds of spe-
cies of bees.”
Rusty patched bumblebee becomes first endangered bee
By Brooke Henderson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nancy Hunt is using a gang-
ster film, a comics workshop and 
a discussion of masculinity to change how students view the Democratic Republic of the Con-
go, an African country stained by violence and civil wars.
The UF history professor said 
she and UF’s Center for African 
Studies helped organize “Congo-Kinshasa Meets Gainesville,” 
three events starting today to 
teach students about Congolese art and history.
“There’s nothing else like it in 
the world,” she said.Today at 6 p.m., The Wooly in 
downtown Gainesville is screen-ing “Viva Riva!” a film by Congo-lese filmmaker Djo Munga using gangster themes to analyze issues 
like gender and race, Hunt said.
On Thursday, from 3 p.m. 
to 5 p.m., historians will host a 
workshop discussing comics by street artist Papa Mfumu’eto in Smathers Library, Room 100, she said.
Felicien Maisha, a 35-year-old 
anthropology graduate student from the Congo, said he plans to 
attend and thinks students inter-
ested in colonization should also go.
“The history of the Congo is 
of great importance in Africa,” he said.
On Friday, Indiana University-
Purdue University Indianapolis professor Didier Gondola will lead a discussion about how America’s Buffalo Bill influenced 1950s and 1960s Congolese masculinity in 
Grinter Hall, Room 404, from 3:30 
p.m. to 5 p.m.
Hunt said she wants attendees 
to think of the Congo beyond the violence in the country. 
“Through this major city we 
are showing that, yes, people are struggling, but there is also enor-mous creativity,” she said. UF professor hosts events promoting Congolese art, historyBy Courtney Moberley 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF students will take to the North 
Lawn this week to act out a unique Shakespeare play.
UF’s Shakespeare in the Park 
is hosting it’s annual free produc-
tion from Thursday to Sunday, but 
unlike years prior, it won’t be held on the Plaza of the Americas due to construction. This year students are performing Troilus and Cressida, a problem play, meaning it has com-ponents of a comedy and a tragedy, said Alena Poulin, the public rela-tions officer for the club. 
The play will be performed at 7 p.m. on Thursday through Saturday and at 1 p.m. on Sunday, the 21-year-old UF journalism junior said. 
The play’s two separate plot lines 
take place in Troy and Greece and contain elements of popular Greek mythology, she said.
“There are a lot of different 
themes to it,” she said. “There’s love, there’s jealousy, there’s trag-edy and political warfare.”
David Ponoroff, the production’s 
co-director, said he wanted the club 
to put on this production because 
it’s different from other Shakespeare plays.
“It’s like Romeo and Juliet mixed 
with the Trojan war, and instead of whiny teens there’s people actually dealing with real human emotions and problems,” the 22-year-old UF political science and sustainability 
studies senior said.
Sarah Hall, a  21-year-old psy-
chology junior, said she’s playing 
Ajax, a Greek prince with a lot of brawn and little brain. She said most people are afraid of Shakespeare, but this play should be appealing to col-lege students.
“Shakespeare has a lot of dirty 
jokes that people just don’t catch,” she said. “This one is chock full of those, a lot of sword fighting, and I think college students like dirty jokes and sword fighting.” UF Shakespeare in the Park to 
put on Troilus and Cressida 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Members of UF’s Shakespeare in the Park practice for their 
upcoming production of Troilus and Cressida. The free play is being put on from Thursday to Sunday on the North Lawn. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF law professors have signed 
a letter opposing Florida Gov. Rick 
Scott’s decision to remove a state attorney from overseeing the case of a cop-killer in Orlando because 
of her stance against the death pen-
alty. 
On March 16, Scott, a Republi-
can, removed Orange and Osceola County State Attorney Aramis Aya-la, a Democrat, from the high-pro-file case of Markeith Loyd, who is accused of killing his pregnant ex-girlfriend, Sade Dixon, and Orlando 
Police Lt. Debra Clayton, who at-
tempted to arrest him in January. Ayala announced on March 16 she would not pursue the death pen-alty in Loyd’s case or any other she oversees. She argued that there isn’t evidence that the death pen-alty improves public safety and that it’s expensive and time-consuming, the Associated Press reported.
After Ayala’s announcement, 
Scott removed and replaced her with Ocala-based State Attorney Brad King, immediately drawing scorn from Ayala, who now fights to stay on the case. 
Since then, 155 people have 
signed a letter on scribd.com ask-ing for Scott to reverse his decision. 
Three UF Levin College of Law 
professors, Michelle Jacobs, E. Lea Johnston and Kenneth Nunn, have signed the letter. 
On Tuesday, a circuit court judge in Tallahassee sided with Scott, de-nying Ayala’s attempt to delay case proceedings for her to prepare a case for the Florida Supreme Court, the AP reported.
“The governor is given broad 
authority to assign another state at-
torney,” the judge, Frederick Laut-
en, said.
Michelle Jacobs, one of the UF 
professors who signed the letter, said Scott overstepped his authority in removing Ayala from the case. 
“People in the legal profession 
following this think it’s inappropri-ate for the governor, who is a politi-
cal appointee, to step into the role 
of the state attorney,” she said.
Even though Ayala filed a mo-
tion in court against this, Jacobs said she doesn’t believe Scott’s decision will be reversed or that he will face any repercussions. 
Despite this 
letter and other public opposi-
tion to Scott’s 
decision, several 
Florida sheriffs 
condemned Ayala’s decision not to seek out the death penalty. Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell issued a statement March 16 that she was outraged by Ayala’s choice. 
“Ayala’s stance is considered a 
betrayal to the voters as she failed to make her anti-death penalty po-sition known,” Darnell said. 
Last fall, Ayala became the first 
black State Attorney elected in Flor-ida, according to the AP. 
Kenneth Nunn, a UF Law profes-
sor who signed the letter, said life in prison without bond isn’t a lesser punishment than the death penalty. 
Nunn said Scott’s decision was 
politically charged because Ayala’s views didn’t align with his. He said the argument that Ayala was re-moved because she didn’t publicly state her stance regarding the death penalty while she was running for state attorney isn’t a good reason to take her off the case. 
“He’s stepping into the politi-
cal arena that overrides the people who elected their state attorney,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
UF Law professors petition ouster of State Attorney Ayala
Ayala
Events are today, Thursday and FridayThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
What freedom 
of speech 
really means
It’s a popular pastime nowadays to rant about how the U.S. 
is infringing upon freedom of speech. Conservatives speciﬁ  -cally will talk about how oppressed their freedom of speech is because they feel like they cannot express their views with-out people criticizing them. What a lot of people fail to realize 
is that freedom of speech does not mean freedom to speak with-out repercussion: It means that the government cannot censor or restrain you. It does not mean people can’t criticize you, that your workplace cannot ﬁ  nd your speech or actions inappropriate or that what you say won’t be subject to negative social reper-cussions. You have the freedom to say what you want, without the government regulating you; other people, press, companies, celebrities and social media, however, have the freedom to react.
Let’s take a trip now, to a country where that isn’t the case. In 
March 2015, Singapore teenage blogger, Amos Yee, uploaded a video criticizing Singapore’s long-time Prime Minister Lee Kwan Yew. He was arrested and, at age 16, tried as an adult on counts of “deliberate intention of wounding the religious or racial feel-ings” and “threatening, abusive or insulting communication.” 
Now it should be pointed out that, regarding the ﬁ  rst charge, 
Yee made no explicit threats against the religious groups (in this case Christians and Muslims in question). He made critical, of-fensive statements, but it was to the caliber of comments you’d 
ﬁ  nd in a nasty Reddit thread or the YouTube comments section. 
What we’re trying to illustrate is the difference between the 
way Singapore handled this situation and the way America 
would have — and illustrate that our freedom of speech is much greater than some conservatives would have you believe.
Yee criticized a revered leader. He was arrested at 16 and tried 
as an adult. In America, people criticize the president all the time — and not just in YouTube videos. They do it on radio shows, on television, even in large public spaces. They make a living 
yelling at a camera about political leaders. They do it across the 
political spectrum. People criticize President Donald Trump and people criticized former President Barack Obama and before that, people criticized former President George Bush, former President Bill Clinton and everyone else before. People post angry blog en-tries and videos and write long raging social media posts. 
And they don’t get arrested.Now, that’s not to say you can scream or post anything with-
out government repercussion. The government steps in for the 
(understandable) instances of child pornography, fraud, certain 
cases of obscenity and speech that pose a clear and present dan-ger.
The point is, here in America, we have a considerable free-
dom of speech that we don’t even realize. It just takes one glance at your estranged uncle’s Facebook rants or the blog post by that girl from your Preview group to realize that the government isn’t about to swoop in to restrict their freedom of speech. 
Where the confusion comes up is that people mistake the 
freedom of speech for freedom of being a jerk. Here’s where we can clarify things. The government is not going to arrest a man for making lewd comments about his female coworkers; but his company can ﬁ  re him. The government is not going to swoop in because a student made a racist group on Facebook; but the university can remove him or her from leadership positions. Freedom of speech does not mean you are immune from the re-actions of those around you, because, believe it or not, they have the same freedom of speech as you.There has been some debate about the eth-
ics of so-called sanctuary cities. Let’s look 
at one argument against non-compliance 
with federal law enforcement and whether it holds up.
First, deﬁ  nitions: A sanctuary city is one that 
has policies of noncooperation with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ICE frequently issues 
requests to local law enforcement for the use of 
jails and prisons or the holding of arrested individ-uals without bail on the basis of their immigration 
status. The exact policies of sanctuary cities vary, but the 
most common are refusal of these requests and law enforce-ment that does not take immigration status into account.
Sanctuary cities have seen a great deal of backlash from 
the Trump administration and the conservative community. In January, President Donald Trump issued an executive or-
der to withdraw federal grant money from sanctuary cities. 
It’s worth noting that the executive branch cannot cut all federal funding, as most is distributed through Congress, and 
courts in the past (South Dakota v. Dole) have held that the 
withdrawal of funds as punishment must be related to the crime, meaning Trump could not pull funding for highways, 
for example.
While the Trump administration’s threats amount to so 
much shouting and ﬂ  ailing, there is an ideological stance buried under these actions, and it bears examination. In dis-
cussions, I hear one argument raised again and again: The president is only demanding the enforcement of existing 
laws. Police and local governments are in the wrong because 
they are refusing to enforce the law.
The question I rarely see considered is this: Is strict en-
forcement of the law really what we want? As children in school, we were taught that the civil rights movement and the American Revolution, moments of deﬁ  ance in the face of 
unjust laws, were some of the most righteous in our shared 
history. To condemn acts of nonviolent civil disobedience now seems beyond hypocritical.But perhaps you think cases of justiﬁ  ed disobe-
dience are few and far between. You may claim 
that sanctuary cities have nothing in common 
with these noble movements. I think you need to look again, but let’s consider your point.
Is it best that the vast majority of laws are en-
forced? Would we be better off if police kicked down your door to arrest your father for giv-
ing you a sip of his beer when you were 10? Is 
Gainesville Police’s time best spent pulling sed-entary stoners off the couch, rounding up bags of 
chips like so many bullet casings? Should we post ofﬁ  cers with stopwatches in Publix to kick you out when comparing avocados has become loitering?
Of course not, you say. This is ridiculous and a waste of 
police time. These laws are not meant to be enforced exactly, they are laws that police enforce at their discretion to prevent 
trouble.
The problem comes when we consider just how many 
discretionary laws we have in America. Cruising laws allow police to arrest you for driving through the same neighbor-
hood or intersection more than once in a set span of time, thereby making lunch breaks, quick trips to the store and 
borrowing sugar from your neighbor down the road illegal. 
Laws against joyriding make it illegal to drive for fun with-out an express reason. These laws are not designed to be 
enforced. They are designed to allow police to arrest anyone 
with a car. Search, and you will ﬁ  nd these laws exist for any situation. Noise ordinances without set decibel levels allow 
police to arrest you for playing music. Loitering restrictions 
allow you to be arrested for standing around.
Many segments of our population are painfully aware that 
they don’t have to have done anything wrong to be arrested. If we enforced every law, no American would be left outside a cell. Law has nothing to do with right and wrong, and 
anyone who claims it does simply hasn’t been targeted yet.
David Billig is a UF linguistics masters student. His col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.Is ‘law enforcement’ actually what we want?
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
David Billig
opinions@alligator.orgBy Jeremy BishopWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
When the president of the U.S. 
uses Twitter to get his message out, it’s safe to say that Twitter 
has become part of mainstream 
media consumption. With 140 
characters or less, there’s a lot of room for misinterpretation or misrepresentation of 
the facts. 
Media outlets use Twitter to report 
breaking news. But it’s important to read 
beyond that and dive deeper in order to be an educated media consumer. In the 
race to be the ﬁ  rst one to uncover the lat-
est scoop, nuance can be lost. There may be more opportunities to lie because social media lacks the editing or accountability of 
traditional media.
Facebook’s algorithm makes it possi-
ble to only see the news you want to see. 
Compare this to the 5 p.m. news, which has a little bit of everything. Depending 
on which Facebook pages you follow, you may only see cute animal videos 
as opposed to the real problems of the world. Getting news from 
Twitter or Facebook means that 
you’re only getting the news that you would be interested in. But by venturing outside of your 
bubble, you might be able to 
educate yourself on an issue of which you were unaware. 
President Donald Trump’s tweets are 
becoming headlines on their own — which 
is watering down the news cycle with 
whatever he wants us to talk about. In-stead, the rest of the media should be more like Rachel Maddow, who has stopped 
covering Trump’s tweets. Trump's Twitter 
is so ﬁ  lled with lies that the information can no longer be considered reliable. It’s better to focus on the impact of what he’s saying. For instance, with just a couple of 
tweets he baselessly accused former Presi-dent Barack Obama of wiretap-
ping him. Now that he’s presi-dent, Trump’s tweets have the 
power to cause a diplomatic 
nightmare — including when he tweeted that Germany owed the U.S. money for NATO, accord-
ing to Politico. The tweets are 
no more than a distraction from real problems that we face.
Twitter doesn’t leave a lot of room to 
explain yourself. Just skimming the head-
lines of the Alligator might lead you to be-
lieve that the UF community has reached a consensus on just forgiving Smith Meyers and moving on. But if you paid more at-
tention to what was going on around you, 
you would know that’s not the case. Those who didn’t actually read the columns and letters or look into who wrote them might think that this is an outpouring of support 
from UF as a whole, but upon closer ex-amination it’s clear that “the System” de-
cided to ﬂ  ood in letters of support to the Alligator.
Social media allows the news to become 
sensationalized, which can ultimately per-petuate harm. It’s like saying vaccines cause autism — which is technically based 
on a scientiﬁ  c study. If someone took it at 
face value, they might decide not to vac-cinate their kids. Further research would show that the study had been discredited and that not vaccinating is actually quite 
dangerous — but it’s hard to capture all 
the nuances of this in a tweet.
Don’t settle for what’s presented to you 
on social media. In the age of alternative 
facts and fake news, it’s even more impor-
tant to delve into the issues instead of tak-ing what you see at face value.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. 
 Don't settle for face value and stop relying on social media for your newsColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.Starting T onight @ 6PM
1. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our pageThe Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — Declar-
ing an end to what he’s called “the 
war on coal,” President Donald Trump signed an executive order Tuesday that eliminates numerous restrictions on fossil fuel production, breaking with leaders across the globe who have embraced cleaner energy sources.The order makes good on 
Trump’s campaign pledge to unravel former President Barack Obama’s ef-forts to curb global warming, elimi-nating nearly a dozen measures in an effort to boost domestic energy production, especially oil, natural gas and coal.
Environmental activists, includ-
ing former Vice President Al Gore, denounced the plan. But Trump said the effort would spark “a new energy revolution” and lead to “unbeliev-able” American prosperity.
“That is what this is all about: 
bringing back our jobs, bringing back our dreams and making America wealthy again,” Trump said during a signing ceremony at the Environ-mental Protection Agency headquar-ters, where he was ﬂ  anked on stage by more than a dozen coal miners.While Republicans have blamed 
Obama-era environmental regula-tions for the loss of coal jobs, fed-eral data shows that U.S. mines have been shedding jobs for decades un-der presidents from both parties as a result of increasing automation and competition from natural gas.
Trump’s order initiates a review 
of the Clean Power Plan, which re-stricts greenhouse gas emissions at coal-ﬁ  red power plants. The order also lifts a 14-month-old moratorium on new coal leases on federal lands.
Gore blasted Trump’s action as “a 
misguided step away from a sustain-able, carbon-free future for ourselves and generations to come.” But he said no one — not even Trump — “can stop the encouraging and esca-lating momentum we are experienc-ing in the ﬁ  ght to protect our planet.” 
 Trump, in break from other world leaders, digs in on coalBy Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Seven roads maintained by the 
City of Gainesville will experience closures throughout the week, for reasons ranging from construc-
tion to repaving. 
Depot Avenue will experience 
temporary lane closures between 
Southeast Seventh Street and Williston Road, according to a Gainesville Public Works Depart-
ment press release. Roads will be 
closed as the city prepares for an 
upcoming construction project that will add a new roundabout and brick sidewalks. 
Chip Skinner, the assistant 
public information ofﬁ  cer for 
the City of Gainesville, wrote in 
an email that these closures can cause commuting delays and af-fect businesses and neighbor-
hoods. 
“We try to limit the impact to 
businesses and residents in an 
area that will be under construc-tion,” Skinner said. 
A section of Northwest 14th 
Street has remained closed while 
a new sewer is being installed 
and construction on The Standard at Gainesville continues. Four blocks away, the development of One College Park Apartments has 
partially blocked Northwest 18th 
Street, according to the release. 
Skinner said drivers should be 
aware of possible delays associ-
ated with the closures and realize 
that not every road in Gainesville 
is maintained by the city. 
“We try to maintain access 
whenever possible,” he said. 
Parts of Northwest First and 
Third Avenue will also be closed 
for a redevelopment project and 
repaving, and parts of Northeast 
Third Avenue and Southeast Sixth Terrace will be closed for paving.
Elinor Garlington, an 18-year-
old Santa Fe College health sci-
ence freshman, drives her car to 
campus every day, she said. Road closures have caused her to miss class in the past, forcing her to 
take long detours.
“Trafﬁ  c always seems to be an 
issue,” Garlington said. “It would 
be nice if the construction was spread out instead of all at once.” 
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org  Citywide road closures continue
By Lindsey Paige
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students walking through UF’s 
campus this week may notice 
backpacks adorned with purple ribbons, symbols of domestic-vio-lence awareness.
As part of its No More Silence, 
No More Violence event, UF’s Levin College of Law hopes to give students, faculty, lawyers and judges a platform to discuss their experiences with stalking, domes-tic violence, sexual violence and intimate partner violence, said Leif Stringer, a resource counselor 
at Levin. The two-day-long event 
began Tuesday.
Student organizations will 
have booths in the college’s court-yard today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Organizers will be passing out purple ribbons to show their sup-port, Stringer said. 
“Domestic violence affects 
more people than we know,” Stringer said. “It’s time we talk about it.”
At noon, James Colaw, a Cir-
cuit Judge in the Eighth Judicial 
Circuit Court of Florida, and vic-
tim advocate Gretchen Casey will speak about how students can recognize when this violence af-fects law clients and colleagues, he said.
Stringer said the ﬁ  rst-ever 
event was inspired by a student who was a survivor of sexual as-
sault, who visited his ofﬁ  ce and 
talked about the topic with him. 
“I asked, ‘Why don’t we do 
our own thing?’” he said. “‘What messages do you want folks to know?’ And we did it.”
Michael Bennett, a ﬁ  rst-year 
UF law student, said it’s important for law students to understand 
sexual and domestic violence. 
“These are important issues 
to discuss because as future at-
torneys, we may have to assist people who have been impacted by these incidents,” the 23-year-old said.  UF Levin College of 
Law raises awareness 
for domestic violence  
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
THE PURPOSE IS TO ENCOURAGE 
PEOPLE TO MAKE HEALTH 
CARE PLANS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Before he dies, Quoc Pham wants to tell his 
crush he likes her.
The 19-year-old UF criminology and the-
atre freshman wrote his goal Tuesday in chalk 
on a “Before I Die” wall inside Reitz Union. 
The wall is one of ﬁ  ve placed throughout 
Gainesville as part of UF Health Shands Hos-pital’s annual celebration of National Health Care Decisions Day, said Wendy Resnick, the project manager.
“Oddly enough, it looks like a random wall, 
but it helps you see what you want to do with your life,” Pham said.
The “Before I Die” wall is an international 
art project encouraging people to write some-thing they want to accomplish before they die, Resnick said. The annual National Health Care Decisions Day on April 16, which has been cel-ebrated for six years at UF, is meant to encour-age people to express their future health care plans to loved ones.
Future health care plans include ﬁ  lling out 
a surrogate form to designate who makes de-cisions for you if you’re unable to; specifying which medical procedures you don’t want to go through, like being fed through a tube; and sharing your wishes after you die, she said. 
“The reality is, everybody’s going to die at 
some point, so it’s good to have people un-
derstand what you want to have happened,” 
Resnick said. 
Resnick said Shands puts together a group 
of doctors, nurses and social workers who are passionate about the topic to organize the cel-ebration. Last year, Resnick said the group held focus groups with UF students to brainstorm ideas about how to publicize it further.
“We used to put up a table, but that was 
kind of boring, so we decided to talk to stu-dents and they came up with this idea,” Resn-ick said. 
The walls were stationed at the Alachua 
County Senior Recreation Center, the UF Health Science Center, the Reitz, the Haven Hospice Attic and Depot Park. All walls were installed Friday, except for the one inside the Reitz, which was installed Monday.
“People have been eager to write on the 
walls,” Resnick said. “That’s a good thing to have because the whole idea is to get people talking and setting goals.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  ‘Before I Die’ walls invite students, residents to plan ahead
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Savannah Edgens, a 21-year-old UF journalism junior, writes on the “Before I Die” wall on 
Tuesday inside the Reitz Union. Edgens wrote that she would like to meet Prince Harry.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
3 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-25 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
A PRIVATE COTTAGE 2BR/1BA
Fenced, hardwood, W/D hk-ups, 4 minutes 
to Everything. SW area. $1200/mo. 352-260-
2209    3-29-17-5-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles 
from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
University Club Apts Summer Sublet 1/1 in 4/4, M or F, (3 F roommates). Fully furn, w/d, great location, 24 hr study lounge & gym. No sublet fees, rent incl WiFi, cable, utils, ame-nities. Call now for more info 954-494-5759    3-29-5-3.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a re-covering brain-damaged woman in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bkgrnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    4-4-17-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Sun Country Sportsis hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14
Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Research A ssistant position
requires Javascript, AWS,  
email 1 page resume to science@mammacare.org    3-30-17-10-14
Looking for someone to drive a beverage cart at our golf course selling beers, soda & snacks to our golfers. PT, hours flexible. Easy, fun, casual work environment. Salary + tips. 352-807-3176 ask for Doc.    2-28-5-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
1. MEASUREMENTS: How much 
Champagne does a Jeroboam-size 
container hold?
2. MEDICAL: What is the common 
name for the condition called ony-chophagia?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek prefix “pyro” mean?
4. TELEVISION: How many crew 
members were on the USS Enterprise in the original “Star Trek” series?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What country has an airport called Ninoy Aquino International?
6. STATE CAPITALS: Which U.S. 
state capital is named after an explorer who popularized the use of tobacco in England?
7. FAMOUS SAYINGS: What is the 
end of the following idiom? “Take it with a grain of ...”?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
male turkey called?
9. CHEMISTRY: What is another 
name for a mineral known as “fool’s gold”?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What is the larg-
est peninsula in the world?
Answers
1. Three liters or four bottles2. Nail biting3. Fire4. 4305. Philippines
6. Raleigh, N.C. (Sir Walter Raleigh)
7. Salt8. A tom9. Iron pyrite10. Arabian
© 2017 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 27, 2017 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
GatorWell Seeking Health Hut Wellness 
Educators GatorWell HPS is seeking current UF students to work at the GatorWell Health Hut, to begin Summer 2017.  For more infor-
mation go to jobs.ufl.edu & search requisition # 501769.      3-30-17-5-14
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patients
Call/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDNeed records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACROSS
1 Anemic
5 Dukes not
among royalty
10 Huge production
14 Rod in a hot rod15 Kate’s sitcom pal16 Pilaf base17 *Rain-X auto
product
19 Like port, usually20 Lacking a key
21 *Manhattan
theater district
locale
23 Proofer’s mark25 Feathery layer26 Oomph29 Set apart from
the group
33 Org. with the staff
of Aesculapius inits logo
36 Big name in gas38 Slam-dance39 Compressed
video format
40 *Electrician’s
basic knowledge
43 See 22-Down44 Mane area45 Like some
buckets
46 Cotillion girl47 Move more
product than
49 Absorb, as a cost50 Nonpro sports gp.
52 Trapper’s trophy
54 *Many a military
spouse
59 Subtle difference
63 Continental coin64 Far-reaching ...
and a literalfeature of theanswers tostarred clues
66 Brought up67 Like nocturnally
counted critters
68 Unrestrained
party
69 Cotton bundle70 Archibald and
Thurmond of theNBA
71 Water testers
DOWN
1 Bedtime drink, in
totspeak2 Freeway sign
3 Chop House dog
food brand
4 Laments loudly
5 Sources of
morals
6 Not in the pink
7 Cabbage dish8 Laundry room
brand
9 Views
10 Dry-__ board11 Risky purchase,
metaphorically
12 Tea preference13 Relinquish18 Be frugal with
22 With 43-Across,
fraternal order
24 Alley scavenger
26 Handled clumsily27 Writer Zola28 Special-interest
government
spending
30 Aerial maneuvers
31 Not paying
attention
32 Howe’er34 Greek sorceress
35 Cut taker
37 Sue Grafton’s “__
for Corpse”39 1988 Motown
acquirer
41 Safari grazer
42 Arrive by auto
47 Sharer’s word
48 You can see right
through them
51 Dwelling
53 Deck that’s worth
a fortune?
54 “Dragnet” star
Jack
55 Subtle glow56 Triumphant
shout
57 One who insists
on the spotlight
58 Ready for print
60 Fictional sleuth
Wolfe
61 “La __ aux
Folles”
62 “Grand” ice
cream brand
65 Denver-to-Des
Moines dir.
By Jeff Stillman©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/29/1703/29/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 29, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Men's golf team takes to T ennessee
The Gators leave for Nashville today to prepare for the Mason Rudolph 
Championship on Friday. For the coach's comments and pre-tournament coverage, read our story online at alligator.org/sports.The Florida lacrosse team faces 
No. 1 Maryland today at 2 p.m. Find out what coach Amanda O'Leary has to say about the matchup, pg. 16.By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer 
JACKSONVILLE — It should’ve been 
a sign. 
Already up by one in the top of the 
first inning, Florida catcher Mike Rivera 
cranked a ball up and over the left field 
fence, but it landed a few feet foul. He 
didn’t even leave the batter’s box.
The junior stepped back in, took a 
few pitches and smacked one again, this time placing it just out of reach of FSU left fielder Jackson Lueck and just over the left field wall for his first home run of the season. 
It was all the Gators needed to down the Seminoles for the fourth straight time, this time taking the game 4-1 on Tues-day night in Jacksonville. It was Florida’s ninth win in its last 10 games against Flor-ida State. 
“I really can’t explain it,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said of UF’s recent dominance 
in the series. “I really don’t have an 
answer. I don’t.”
Rivera’s homer was the decisive blow, 
but it wasn’t the first. 
That distinction belongs to Deacon Li-
put, who opened the game with a leadoff walk. After designated hitter Dalton Guth-rie followed him with a single to center field, first baseman JJ Schwarz knocked 
in the game’s first run with a single to right field. 
That set up Rivera, who came up with 
two outs and Guthrie and Schwarz still on 
base.
“That was huge,” Rivera said of his 
homer. 
Outside the first inning, though, Flori-
da couldn’t muster anything off FSU start-er Andrew Karp or the Seminoles’ bull-pen. Nevertheless, Karp took his second loss of the season. Both losses are against the Gators. 
Meanwhile, Florida starter Garrett 
Milchin picked up the first win of his ca-reer in his first-ever start. The freshman stifled the Seminoles in front of the 8,924 Gators take down 'Noles in Jacksonville 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
As Jalen Tabor fielded questions 
from reporters Tuesday, he smiled. 
Though he had just finished a 
mediocre-at-best performance at 
Florida’s Pro Day in UF's Indoor 
Practice Facility, little seemed to 
bother him or shake his confidence. 
Not even after he shocked scouts 
and attendees — for the wrong rea-son — by running a 40-yard dash in 
the 4.7s, many ticks higher than the 
4.62 he posted at the NFL Combine 
earlier this month. “Just press play,” Tabor said, 
referring to his film while at UF. “I 
already did everything I could do…. 
I’m pretty sure I’ve got more picks 
than a lot of the top guys. I’m pret-
ty sure I’ve got more touchdowns, 
probably more touchdowns than 
they got picks.”
Though Tabor may have exag-
gerated a bit, his numbers don’t lie. 
His eight interceptions over the 
past two seasons are tied for 14th-most among players during that 
span, and his three interception-
return touchdowns rank third by an 
FBS player during that same time period. 
While his Pro Day might not 
have necessarily captivated coaches 
in attendance such as New England 
Patriots head coach Bill Belichick 
or Los Angeles Chargers defensive 
coordinator Gus Bradley, Tabor is 
convinced he’s still one of the best 
defensive backs available — despite 
where NFL mock draft experts have slotted him.
“It’s not going to be my loss if 
you pass on me,” Tabor said. “I’m 
going to be in this league for a long 
time. Somebody could lose their job 
if they pass on me, so I ain’t mad at it.”
UF head coach Jim McElwain 
vouched for his star cornerback as 
well. 
“I don’t know if he’s ever been 
beaten,” he said, “and he’s chased 
guys down when he’s had to. On 
a double-move here and there, he 
might have got beaten, but at the 
same time, (what) he plays on film and puts on film (shows) that the 
speed is not an issue.”
Stock going up … on a Tuesday
Unlike Tabor, three Gators put 
on a clinic in front of scouts. The result could lead to Quincy 
Wilson, Jarrad Davis and Marcus 
Maye jumping into the first round of 
the draft. 
Davis, an inside linebacker, 
flashed his freakish athleticism. 
From his 38.5-inch vertical jump 
to a 4.56-second 40-yard dash that 
was “the fastest 40 that I’ve run in 
my life,” the Kingsland, Georgia, native improved his draft stock by 
leaps and bounds. 
No linebacker in the combine 
posted better numbers than that. 
In fact, out of the 48 wide Pro Day hurts Tabor, helps other UF defensive backs By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
When Cameron Newbauer answered his cell 
phone last week and was told he was being consid-
ered for the women’s basketball head coaching job at the University of Florida, a combination of shock and 
awe coursed through his body.
Newbauer had just completed his fourth season as 
head coach at Belmont, leading the Bruins to their 
second consecutive Ohio Valley Conference Champi-onship and a perfect 16-0 record in league play.
The Fort Wayne, Indiana, native was viewed by 
many as one of the nation’s most promising young coaches in women’s college basketball, and it was only a matter of time before he moved up to a Power 
Five conference school.
However, when the moment finally came for New-
bauer, he still couldn’t help but feel dumbfounded.
“My jaw dropped,” he said. “To get that phone call 
was amazing, a dream come true.”
Newbauer was officially hired as the 10th head 
coach in program history on Monday by athletic di-
rector Scott Stricklin and was formally introduced on Tuesday afternoon at a press conference.
Newbauer said he was first and foremost focused 
on spending time with his new players and beginning to develop a bond with the program.
“Change is tough,” he said. “This is tough on me. 
This is tough on them. So just building relationships, that’s the number one most important priority.”
The women’s basketball team is about one month 
removed from one of its worst seasons over the past decade under former head coach Amanda Butler. The 
Gators lost 11 of 16 games against SEC opponents and 
missed the NCAA Tournament for the second time in three years, leading Stricklin to fire Butler on March 6.
Stricklin is confident that Newbauer is capable of UF formally    
introduces new 
head coach 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
FOOTBALLCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Florida's Mike Rivera bats during the Gators' 2-0 win over Miami on Feb. 25 at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL: UF 4, FSU 114   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
If you’ve consistently read the Alligator’s 
sports section this semester (ha), you may have noticed the absence of a word that’s become ubiquitous in sports journalism. 
That word is adversity, and in the Al-
ligator’s sports pages, we’ve avoided it when-
ever possible. In every story that originally 
mentioned how softball pitcher Aleshia Oca-sio overcame the adversity of facing a bases-loaded situation or questioned how the men’s basketball team would overcome the adversity of a two-game losing streak, the word was re-moved. 
Why? Because sports adversity isn’t real 
adversity. And overuse cheapens it in many cases. 
Now, there are certainly cases where the 
word does apply to sports. A player overcom-ing homelessness, the loss of a twin sister or a horrible injury certainly qualiﬁ  es as “overcom-ing adversity.” But that’s not what I’m talking about. 
I’m talking about the stories 
that call coming back from a tough, last-second loss or an in-jury to a key player “adversity.” 
For example, take a look at these 
quotes from UF football players:
“Spring has been challenging,” 
defensive end Antonneous Clay-ton said. “It’s been a lot of adver-sity that I needed to get through, but my team has helped me through at, like, all of the way.”
Then there’s running back Jordan Scarlett:
“It was challenging dealing with the ups 
and downs and the quarterback changes, peo-
ple getting hurt, defensive guys getting hurt,” he said. “But you know, that’s what coach Mac builds us for. You ﬁ  ght through adversity. That’s exactly what we did.”
Finally, there’s lineman David Sharpe.“The game isn’t easy,” he said, 
“and... we’re gonna face adver-sity. That’s why we play.”
Now, I don’t mean to call out 
these players. Adversity is a natu-
ral go-to word when talking about 
athletic hardships. Like I said before, it’s ubiquitous. Everyone uses it. But that doesn’t mean it should be that way.
Adversity, according to Merri-
am-Webster, is deﬁ  ned as “a state or instance of serious or continued difﬁ  culty or misfor-tune.” The key word there is serious. 
Sports are not serious. No matter how much 
money they make or how much catharsis they provide, sports are games. They’re supposed to be fun. And sure, hardships, struggles and dif-ﬁ  culties happen in sports. Some peoples’ liveli-hoods depend on sports. 
But compared to the hardships suffered by children dying from famine, people who can’t afford homes, folks suffering from mental ill-ness or any other real adversity, sports just aren’t on the same plane, and it cheapens true struggles when we use the same word to de-
scribe someone who overcame the adversity 
cancer as we do for someone who overcame the “adversity” a poor performance in the 100-meter dash. 
When asked on Monday if the word adver-
sity is overused in sports, coach Jim McElwain didn’t really answer the question. However, he did provide one useful insight. 
“It doesn’t matter who you are or where 
you’re from,” he said. “There’s some adversity that’s come in your life.”
He’s right about that. Surely all of the afore-
mentioned athletes have faced true adversity at some point in their lives. 
So why cheapen that adversity by using the 
word in relation to their on-ﬁ  eld performances?
 Adversity is the most overused word in sports. Instead, let’s not cheapen it
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
After attending a family funeral 
and missing Friday’s match against Arkansas, Kourtney Keegan met her team in Missouri on Saturday. 
With no shoes and no racquets, 
Keegan was forced to borrow equip-ment from other players. However, according to coach Roland Thorn-qvist, she played without complaint or excuse on Sunday. 
“That tells you all you need to know about that player,” he said. “No ego. ‘Hey, just give me what-ever you’ve got, and I’ll go out and 
do my job for the Gators.’… What 
an attitude. You’ve got to love that.”
It’s this kind of attitude and will-
ingness to play for their team that has helped propel the Gators forward this season. Sitting at second in the SEC with a 16-1 record, the Gators recorded their seventh sweep of the season against Missouri on Sunday. 
But that wasn’t the only highlight 
from this weekend.On Friday, the Gators narrowly 
defeated No. 18 Arkansas 4-3. This was Florida’s 13th win over a top-25 
opponent this season. And it was in 
large part due to Brooke Austin. 
It all came down to Austin after 
Arkansas had tied the game at 3 all, as she came from behind and won in a thrilling tiebreaker set to give Flor-ida the win. More than her physical-ity, Thornqvist attributes her play to her “professional” focus throughout 
the end of the match. 
“She didn’t look at me one time the last 20 minutes,” he said. “In 
three years of Brooke being with us, that’s the most focused I’ve seen 
Brooke in competition. And that’s 
why she was successful.”
Thornqvist is now making it his 
personal mission with Austin to get her back to the state of mind she was in during the ﬁ  nal set of the Arkan-sas match. He wants to use Austin’s set as a teaching moment to the rest of the team before postseason play. 
“Everybody was there seeing that 
and how she was able to handle the pressure from behind and the crowd,” he said. 
The Gators will more than likely 
have other opportunities to play in high-pressure situations as confer-ence play continues. Thornqvist said in his 16 years coaching at UF, he’s never seen a conference tougher than the SEC this season. 
“We’re being battle tested every 
week,” Thornqvist said. 
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org 
 Keegan’s sacriﬁ  ce, Austin’s focus provide teaching moments
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueri
WOMEN’S TENNISWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Email cover letter and resume to Trisha Carey · tcarey@alligator.orgHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTED
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production 
department, and coordinate newspaper design 
and layout with content from student editors. Requirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Expereience working with students is a plus.
• Must have expereience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring. 
Schedule changes during summer semester.Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great work atmosphere. Modest salary. 
No phone calls, please. Must be willing to begin working late April or early May.
fans at the Jacksonville Baseball 
Grounds in his 4.1 innings, allow-ing no earned runs, striking out one and walking three. 
“I’ll be honest with you,” 
O’Sullivan said. “I think I made a mistake not pitching him more.”
Fellow freshman Nate Brown re-
lieved Milchin, not lasting long after 
allowing Florida State’s only run of 
the game. It happened after FSU ﬁ  rst 
baseman Quincy Nieporte grounded 
a ball just past the glove of diving third baseman Jonathan India and into left ﬁ  eld. Nieporte chugged into second and waited for FSU right ﬁ  elder Rhett Aplin to deliver. 
Aplin did — sort of. He grounded 
a playable ball to second baseman Deacon Liput, who couldn’t quite glove it but slowed it down enough for Nieporte to score. 
The run was the ﬁ  rst for FSU 
against Florida in 37 innings and marked the end of Brown’s day. 
From there, sophomore Michael 
Byrne shut the door, throwing 3.2  
nearly perfect innings — he allowed 
one hit in the bottom of the ninth — to secure the win and pick up a save. 
“We came here last year, but I 
didn’t get to play,” Byrne said. “It was nice getting the W then, too, but it’s even better now.”
The win gives the Gators mo-
mentum ahead of a weekend road series against Missouri, which be-gins on Friday. O’Sullivan was es-pecially encouraged by the strides his team’s offense has made after a lackluster start to the season. 
“I didn’t anticipate us coming 
out of the gate so slow, but the good thing for us is the guys have 
kinda kept their heads up,” he said. 
“We’re showing signs of the offense I thought we could be.”
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.org 
BASEBALL,  from pg. 13Byrne gave up 1 hit in 3.2 innings
receivers who partook in both events at the combine, 
just two recorded a better combination of vertical 
jumps and 40-yard dashes: LSU’s Malachi Dupre and 
Georgia State’s Robert Davis. 
After not participating in any strength, speed or 
agility drills at the combine to give a sprained ankle he suffered toward the end of last season more time to 
heal, Davis said he was happy with his results. 
“I think it was important for me to wait until to-
day,” he said. “I didn’t have a lot of time to train, like two and a half weeks total, but for me to have just 
gotten ready to run, I was just getting able to run at the 
combine, I don’t think I would have done that well. I think I would have done pretty good, but not this 
well.”
Then there’s the two defensive backs: Wilson and 
Maye. 
Wilson didn’t participate in the 40-yard dash, but on one drill, Wilson shufﬂ  ed back and high-pointed a 
ball before channeling his inner Odell Beckham to nab 
it with one hand. 
“It’s nothing new,” Wilson said. “They saw it in the 
win against Kentucky. That’s what I do.”
Maye, on the other hand, wasn’t as ﬂ  ashy but ran 
through drills with ease, showing off his footwork and ball skills. 
Like Davis, the 6-foot, 216-pound safety also didn’t 
participate in many events at the combine. But he did 
run an impressive 4.51-second 40-yard dash for his size. 
Of the eyes he opened included his former team-
mate and current Atlanta Falcons safety Brian Poole. 
“I don’t wanna single anyone out, but to me Marcus 
Maye looked really good,” he said. “You know, being 
that he didn’t compete at the combine. He looked 
really good.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 13Poole: 'Maye looked really good'
turning the program around over 
time and emphasized the level of passion the coach displayed over the course of the hiring process.
“(Newbauer) was the most ready to come in here and help us be better from day one, and he was the one who wanted to be at Florida 
more than any other,” Stricklin 
said.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 13'(He) was the most ready'
CAMERON NEWBAUER COACHING TIMELINE
• 2017 – Present: Florida women’s basketball head coach
• 2013 – 2017: Belmont women’s basketball head coach
• 2012 – 2013: Louisville women’s basketball assistant coach
• 2007 – 2012: Georgia women’s basketball assistant coach
• 2005 – 2007: Georgia men’s basketball director of basketball 
operations
• 2004 – 2005: Siena men’s basketball assistant coachAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF's Michael Byrne throws a pitch during Florida's 1-0 win over 
LSU on Friday at McKethan Stadium.
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2017
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
When Jenny Rowland took the helm of the Gators 
nearly two years ago, she inherited a program in its 
prime.
Former coach Rhonda Faehn had led Florida to 
10 NCAA Super Six appearances during her 13-year tenure, and to three straight national titles in her last three seasons, before becoming Senior Vice President of USA Gymnastics.
When she departed, she left Rowland expecta-
tions that any coach — let alone a ﬁ  rst-year head coach — would have difﬁ  culty fulﬁ  lling in the SEC, one of the most competitive conferences in the sport. 
And while there was no four-peat National Cham-
pionship last season, Rowland has kept the No. 3 Gators at the top since taking over, seamlessly avoid-ing a drop-off during the transition.
“The biggest takeaway so far is that no two years 
are ever alike,” Rowland said. “Helping these young ladies get better everyday, not only in gymnastics but in their lives in general, I take a lot of pride in that.”
Despite losing one of the most decorated UF gym-
nasts ever, Bridget Sloan, to graduation after last sea-son, this year’s squad is once again in position to make it far into the postseason with a younger team.
All of the athletes who take to the mat this Sat-
urday at the NCAA Gainesville Regional will return next season.
The ﬁ  ve Gators — Rachel Slocum, Alex McMur-
try, Kennedy Baker, Alicia Boren and Amelia Hund-ley —  who earned NACGC regular-season All-Amer-ica honors are spread among Florida’s freshman, sophomore and junior classes, leaving the future of the program bright.
“Every player has competed this year and that’s 
really exciting,” Rowland said. “Having ﬁ  ve regular-
season All-Americas this year is a great honor and a 
great testament to them.” 
One of the things Rowland has helped do for the 
program is elevate its level of consistency.
Of the 10 regular-season meets in 2017, the Gators 
scored above a 197.10 in each with the exception of just one, and are now ready to peak as they get deeper into postseason.
However, while the Gators may be excited by 
the prospect of vying for another NCAA title, they ﬁ  rst will have to notch one of the top two scores at Regionals on Saturday if they want to advance.
“It’s just amazing to see the leadership of this 
team,” Rowland said, “and their desires, their deter-mination and wanting to succeed and be their best at the end of the season.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Rowland keeping UF gymnastics 
dominant in her second year 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jenny Rowland looks on during a 
gymnastics meet against Missouri on Feb. 24. 
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
As the clock hit zero in the 
Florida lacrosse team’s season-opener against then-No. 1 North Carolina, the Gators were left with their ﬁ  rst loss of the 2017 season. 
Despite tying the Tar Heels late 
in the second half after trailing for most of the game, the Gators couldn’t keep up the pressure, 
succumbing to four UNC goals in 
the last four minutes.
“We did well, but we did not 
play to our full potential and we 
know that,” attacker Mollie Ste-
vens said after the UNC loss.
Since that game, UF has shown 
its potential in full force.
Florida (8-1, 2-0 Big East) is 
currently riding an eight-game win streak, ﬁ  ve of which came against 
ranked teams. Over that stretch, 
the Gators have outscored their opponents 140-79.
On top of that, Florida leads the 
NCAA in scoring offense (16.67 
goals per game) and is ﬁ  fth in 
assists per game (7.44). Stevens ranks sixth in the nation with 3.67 goals per game, and attacker Sam-mi Burgess ranks 13th in assists per game with 2.33.
Five Gators, Stevens, Burgess, 
Shayna Pirreca, Sydney Pirreca and Lindsey Ronbeck have at least 32 points.
Florida’s defense has been just 
as good.
Goalkeeper Haley Hicklen is 
11th in the NCAA in save percent-age (.503) and is on pace to break the UF single-season save record with 84 saves. Florida has also scooped up 219 ground balls and has caused 92 turnovers. 
Since the ﬁ  rst game of the sea-
son, the Gators have shown their full potential, earning their place-ment as the No. 3-ranked team in the NCAA.
While the Gators have shown 
that they are one of the top teams in college lacrosse, if they want to move above their No. 3 ranking, a win against No. 1 Maryland would do the trick. 
“Playing in a game like this is 
why you come to the University of Florida,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. 
Maryland (9-0), one of two 
teams in the top 25 that’s unde-feated, claimed the top spot after a 13-10 win over UNC. That was the closest margin of victory for Maryland, which has outscored opponents 143-75.
“We’ve had a really tough 
schedule to start the season, and I am so proud of how we’ve han-dled it and gotten better with each game,” O’Leary said. “Maryland is a fantastic opponent, and we’re looking forward to a great game.” 
The game is set for a 2 p.m. 
starting time at the Maryland Field Hockey and Lacrosse Complex in College Park, Maryland.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  Florida lacrosse team 
showing its potential 
before facing Maryland