We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 136 MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
Franks stars in Spring game
Gators quarterback Feleipe Franks took the 
lead in the QB race on Friday, pg. 13
An exclusive look at the Turlington dancer’s past
See photos from his high-school and college days, pg. 8
Publix prepares for summer opening
It will include a Starbucks and pharmacy, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Max Chesnes 
Alligator Staff Writer 
He picks out the tiny shorts at 
Goodwill. They show off his quads.
He responds to Dennis, but his full 
name is Dennis Harran Kane.
His mother, Barbara, named him 
after his great-grandfather.
His parents met and fell in love 
in Tallahassee. That’s where they 
ﬁ  rst started a family.
He doesn’t like to say his age. 
He was born in 1975, but he’ll let you do the math (he’s 41).
He moved to Tampa early in his 
childhood.
As a kid, he had a miniature 
Schnauzer named Clyde Von Snyde. 
He looked forward to playing with him 
after school and remembers that “he was a crazy, rambunctious kind of creature.”  
He hated nature, but liked being in Boy 
Scouts.
His older brother, Jason, “was never 
the most positive role model.” They lived together until he was 13.
He was shy, but hated being alone. 
He played the viola. 
As a teenager, he would lock himself 
in his bedroom, turn off all the lights and listen to popular AM radio personalities like Michael “Lionel” Lebron and Bob 
“Mad Dog” Lassiter.
At George D. Chamberlain High 
School, he earned a perfect score on 
his Advanced Placement calculus 
test and was an athlete on the 1991-
1992 Chamberlain Chiefs wrestling squad. He graduated at the top of his class.
He received a scholarship to 
the University of Florida, where he studied engineering and listened to Nirvana and Pearl Jam.
As a student, he often sat 
and watched the ducks by the Reitz Union pond while asking himself metaphysical questions like, “What is the 
world?” and “Who am I?”
He lived in Fletcher Hall, 
where he remembers playing 
Nintendo and watching the 
O.J. Simpson car chase on 
live television.
He hates long questions, but loves long answers.
After two years of college, he dropped out.
His parents tried to re-enroll him, but he 
refused. “He didn’t like the idea of memorizing 
things and spitting them back out for a good grade,” his mother said. “He wanted to understand things in a deeper way.” 
 He was a taxicab driver with 
United Cab Company until he 
got in an accident and lost 
his job. He drove pedicabs, 
delivered pizzas and 
spent his summer months 
working at Adventure Island 
water park in Tampa.
In 1997, he joined the 
Army.
He never failed 
to impress the 
drill sergeants 
at basic training 
in Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. 
His unparalleled 
physical ﬁ  tness 
earned him 
rough-and-tough 
nicknames like “Billy Badass.” 
He ran away 
from the Army — 
twice.
When he was 
ﬂ  own back to base 
after escaping a 
second time, his 
sergeant was waiting 
for him at the airport, 
ready to ofﬁ  cially 
discharge him from the military. 
He started to lose 
his hair. 
Doctors told 
him he might 
have bipolar 
and affective 
disorders. He 
still refuses 
an ofﬁ  cial 
diagnosis.  
“Who doesn’t 
have high 
highs  
and low 
lows?”  
he’ll  say.  By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A former UF linebacker was arrested 
Thursday for attempted sexual battery, 
Gainesville Police said.
Daniel Eugene McMillan, 23, was in 
his apartment with a woman visiting 
for unknown business reasons at about 
3:40 p.m., according to an arrest report. When she walked into his room, he locked his door and stood in front of the locked door, blocking her from leaving.
McMillan lowered his shorts and 
underwear, exposing his genitals to the woman, police said. She told him she was uncomfortable and asked to be let 
out of the room, but he continued to 
block her from leaving and ignored her pleas.
“It’s OK baby, it’s OK baby,” he told 
her, according to the report.
When he walked toward her and 
grabbed her, she tried to get away, po-lice said. She escaped the room after kicking McMillan in the crotch.After the woman 
told police, McMil-lan was brought to 
the police station, 
where he refused to answer questions, said GPD spokes-
person Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
McMillan is a UF 
African American studies senior, said UF spokesperson John Hines.
McMillan was No. 13 on the 2015 UF 
football roster, according to the team’s website, but no longer plays with the team. The Jacksonville native started playing football for UF in 2013.
Police arrested McMillan on charges 
of attempted sexual battery and false imprisonment at 7:16 p.m. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, 
where he was released Friday night on 
a $40,000 bond.
As of press time, McMillan has not 
responded to requests for comment.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Relay for Life is shrinking at UF.In the past ﬁ  ve years, the organization 
has seen a roughly 52-percent decrease in attendance and a 49-percent decrease in fundraising. 
Some at Saturday and Sunday’s 
events said Dance Marathon, a Chil-dren’s Miracle Network Hospitals fund-raiser, may have inﬂ  uenced the decrease since the events are held close together. 
About 1,000 people raised roughly 
$65,000 for cancer research this year, said Vanessa Honorat, the event lead. 
Five years ago, about 2,100 partici-
pants raised roughly $127,000, according to Alligator archives.
“We just had a lot of trouble getting 
people motivated to fundraise,” Honorat, 21, said. 
The 13th annual fundraising event 
was from 3 p.m. Saturday to 3 a.m. Sunday on Flavet Field. The UF biology senior said the organization had techni-
cal difﬁ  culties putting the registration webpage online at the beginning of Fall, 
which may have affected participation.
At 2:45 a.m. Sunday morning, “Imag-
ine” by John Lennon echoed across the ﬁ  eld as the remaining 100 or so people broke down tents, folded chairs and col-lected trash, ending the relay. 
During the event, each team fun-
draised, which included selling food, hosting a photobooth, face-painting or crafting buttons with cancer-awareness ribbons on them. 
“We could’ve had a better turnout, 
but it was a successful event,” said Blake Hygema, the special events chair.
Hygema said he thinks attendance 
has decreased as Dance Marathon has become more popular.
“Not to put down other organiza-
tions, but there’s just a lot going on,” the 20-year-old said.
Although attendance has decreased, 
Hygema, a UF food and resource eco-nomics junior, said Relay for Life still holds a special place in his heart. 
He said he enjoyed the luminaria GPD: Former UF player 
kicked in crotch after 
attempted sexual battery
Fundraising, attendance 
at Relay for Life takes hit
SEE DENNIS,  PAGE 8 SEE RELAY,  PAGE 4
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Staff Writer 
He picks out the tiny shorts at 
Goodwill. They show off his quads.
He responds to Dennis, but his full 
name is Dennis Harran Kane.
His mother, Barbara, named him 
after his great-grandfather.
His parents met and fell in love 
in Tallahassee. That’s where they 
He doesn’t like to say his age. 
He was born in 1975, but he’ll let 
you do the math (he’s 41).
He moved to Tampa early in his 
As a kid, he had a miniature 
Schnauzer named Clyde Von Snyde. 
He looked forward to playing with him 
after school and remembers that “he was a 
crazy, rambunctious kind of creature.”  
He hated nature, but liked being in Boy 
His older brother, Jason, “was never 
the most positive role model.” They lived 
He was shy, but hated being alone. 
As a teenager, he would lock himself 
in his bedroom, turn off all the lights and 
listen to popular AM radio personalities 
like Michael “Lionel” Lebron and Bob 
At George D. Chamberlain High 
School, he earned a perfect score on 
his Advanced Placement calculus 
test and was an athlete on the 1991-
1992 Chamberlain Chiefs wrestling 
squad. He graduated at the top of 
He received a scholarship to 
the University of Florida, where 
he studied engineering and 
listened to Nirvana and Pearl 
As a student, he often sat 
and watched the ducks by 
the Reitz Union pond while 
asking himself metaphysical 
questions like, “What is the 
He lived in Fletcher Hall, 
where he remembers playing 
Nintendo and watching the 
O.J. Simpson car chase on 
questions, but loves long answers.
After two years of college, he dropped out.
His parents tried to re-enroll him, but he 
refused. “He didn’t like the idea of memorizing 
things and spitting them back out for a good 
grade,” his mother said. “He wanted to 
understand things in a deeper way.” 
He was a taxicab driver with 
United Cab Company until he 
got in an accident and lost 
his job. He drove pedicabs, 
delivered pizzas and 
spent his summer months 
working at Adventure Island 
water park in Tampa.
In 1997, he joined the 
Army.
He never failed 
to impress the 
drill sergeants 
at basic training 
in Fort Leonard 
Wood, Missouri. 
His unparalleled 
physical ﬁ  tness 
earned him 
rough-and-tough 
nicknames like 
“Billy Badass.” 
He ran away 
from the Army — 
twice.
When he was 
ﬂ  own back to base 
after escaping a 
second time, his 
sergeant was waiting 
for him at the airport, 
ready to ofﬁ  cially 
discharge him from 
the military. 
He started to lose 
his hair. 
Doctors told 
him he might 
have bipolar 
and affective 
disorders. He 
still refuses 
an ofﬁ  cial 
diagnosis.  
“Who doesn’t 
have high 
highs  
and low 
lows?”  
he’ll  
say.  
McMillan
A thousand words about the 
Turlington Dancer Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
T oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  82° LOW  55°
Local Events / News in Brief
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Visiting Artist Lecture with 
Gean Moreno
The UF School of Art + Art History is proud to present visiting artist Gean Moreno as 
part of the Spring 2017 Visiting 
Artists Lecture Series on Thursday at 6 p.m. in Fine Arts Building B, Room 103. The lec-ture by Moreno, which is free and open to the public, offers the community at large an op-portunity for dialogue about contemporary art and culture 
in relation to national and in-
ternational trends. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Hymns and Heroes from the 
MoviesCan you imagine your favor-ite epic film without a rousing musical score? Can you imag-
ine the final lightsaber duel be-
tween Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Darth Maul in “Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace” without the pulse-pounding beat of the drums, the driving orchestrated energy coupled with the “war-cry” lyr-ics in the old Welsh tongue? We 
doubt it would be nearly as ex-
hilarating. Join the UF Choral Union and the Gainesville Master Chorale as they present “Hymns and Heroes from the Movies” on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are $10 to $40 and can be pur-
chased at performingarts.ufl.
edu. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
School of Theatre and 
Dance presents William Shakespeare’s ‘King Lear’The UF School of Theatre and Dance is pleased to pres-
ent “King Lear” now through 
Saturday at Constans Theatre. Deception and intrigue are the name of the game in “King Lear,” one of the most famous tragedies of all time. This Dali-inspired production reimagines Shakespeare’s heart-wrenching tale of family and the struggle 
for power where chaos and 
tragedy abound. Tickets for the production are $18 for the gen-eral public, $15 for UF faculty, and staff and seniors, and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
University Galleries presents 
Currents 2017University Galleries and stu-dent organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present Currents 2017 — Perception: Color and Content in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now un-til April 19. Currents is an an-
nual national juried exhibition 
co-juried by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. Perception: Color and Content is thematically fo-cused on the idea of how per-ception of color can change the way content is seen. This im-portant annual exhibition se-lects jurors and addresses con-
temporary themes in ceramic 
art. Currents 2017 will expand the educational experience for students in UF’s School of Art + Art History and engage the public with color and content within contemporary ceramic art. The exhibition and open-ing reception are free and open 
to the public.
University Galleries presents 
MFA Thesis Exhibition II
University Gallery is pleased to present an exhibition of art-work by graduating UF Master of Fine Arts (MFA) students today through April 14. The 
types of media represented in-
clude graphic design, ceramics, installation, painting, print-making, sculpture and video. The exhibition is free and open to the public. The brown bag talk will be today from noon to 1 p.m. Beverages and cookies will be provided. Bring your 
own lunch. For more informa-
tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Gainesville Citizens for 
Alternatives to the Death Penalty hosts Criminal Trial Attorney Adam TebruggeThe public is invited to hear a Sarasota, Florida, attor-
ney and Thomas Cooley Law 
School adjunct professor give a presentation entitled “The End of the Death Penalty in Florida is Within Sight.” It will be held on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Emmanuel Mennonite Church, at 1236 NW 18th Ave. Contributing to the discussion 
will be UF Levin College of 
Law professor Kenneth Nunn, one of three UF professors to sign a letter in support of State Attorney Aramis Ayala, who announced she would no lon-ger seek the death penalty. There is ample parking, and re-freshments will be served. Call 
352-278-4342 for more info. 
Do you know what you think 
you know? Challenging ste-
reotypes and perspectives on immigration in the past and presentUF doctoral candidate Alexis Baldacci will give a talk for the exhibit “The Cuban-American Dream” in Smathers Library. The presentation will be Tuesday from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
in the library’s Latin American 
and Caribbean Collection. She will discuss the challenges and opportunities presented by cre-ating an exhibit in collabora-tion with the libraries.
Florida Museum to host speed 
dating science evening event 
April 12
Join the Florida Museum of Natural History for an evening of science and snacks April 12 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. At Speed Science: Night at the Museum, guests may ask scientists their most burning questions one-on-one. Pre-registration is re-
quired, and participants must 
be 18 years of age or older. The cost is $10 for members or $15 for nonmembers. For more in-formation or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/speed-science-1 or call 352-273-2064.
Florida Museum to host 
National Geographic photog-rapher Joel Sartore on April 21Join National Geographic pho-tographer Joel Sartore for a pre-sentation April 21 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. This 
event is part of a yearlong cele-
bration of the Florida Museum of Natural History’s 100th an-niversary as the state’s official natural history museum. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/lecture or call 352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 111 ISSUE 136MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.ceremony, when about 100 white paper 
bags holding candles lit the track as peo-ple walked around in silence.
As he walked in the candlelight, 
Hygema said he reminisced about his 
grandfather pulling him in a red wagon 
through Jacksonville’s streets. His grand-father died of gallbladder cancer in Janu-ary 2016.
“It was a goose bump feel,” Hygema 
said.  
Kelsey Stefan, a UF psychology soph-
omore, said it’s hard for students to at-tend both Relay for Life and Dance Mara-
thon every Spring. “I would like to see more people next 
year,” the 20-year-old said. “But I also 
think it’s hard for college students to fun-draise in general when they’re broke.”
Stefan is part of the UF Pre-Profes-
sional Service Organization, the second-highest fundraising team this year, with the event leadership being the ﬁ  rst, ac-
cording to the UF Relay for Life web-
page. She said her team was successful because they fundraised about $3,500 all year, hosting restaurant nights and sell-ing cupcakes and shirts. 
“It’s been a lot of hard work, so it’s 
amazing to see it come together,” Stefan said.RELAY,  from pg.1Some blamed the decline on 
Dance Marathon popularity
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Volunteers donate their hair on Flavet Field during Relay For Life on Saturday. In the past 
five years, fundraising and attendance at the event have seen sharp decreases.
IT WILL INCLUDE A 
PHARMACY AND 
STARBUCKS.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Within three months, Gainesville 
will see the opening of its 13th Pub-
lix. 
The new grocery store, at 3720 
NW 13th St., near the intersection 
of West University Avenue and 
Northwest 13th Street, will open once construction and stocking are both complete, Publix spokesperson Dwaine Stevens wrote in an email.
The Publix, designed to be cam-
pus-oriented, will also include a pharmacy, a Starbucks and a lounge area, Stevens wrote. The parking lot 
will have 63 car spots, four handi-
cap car spots, 32 scooter spots and two spaces for motorcycles. 
The supermarket will employ 
between 130 and 140 people, some of whom have already been hired, Stevens wrote.“We look forward to continue 
serving the university community and the city of Gainesville,” Stevens wrote.
UF architecture sophomore Ar-
den Lambert said although she most likely won’t do her regular grocery shopping at the new Publix, because she lives near Southwest Archer Road, the new Publix will 
give her one more option for on-
campus food.
“My studio is right here, so if I 
wanted to go get something health-ier than Chick-ﬁ  l-A or CVS, it’s a good alternative,” the 19-year-old said.
Lambert said the grocery store 
will be extremely convenient for 
those of her friends living at The 
Standard at Gainesville, 1404 W. University Ave., next year because they’ll be able to walk.
“They’re super excited about the 
Publix,” she said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgBy Romy Ellenbogen and 
Paige Fry                                    
Alligator Staff Writers 
On Friday, more than 50 
people — a mixture of UF gradu-ate assistants, undergraduates and faculty — sat on the steps of Tigert Hall holding paper 
signs reading, “UF show GAs 
you care” and “Save Gator Grad Care.”
UF’s Graduate Assistants 
United organized the rally to in-form students about UF’s Jan. 30 proposal to raise costs of health insurance premiums, monthly deductibles and other services 
for graduate assistants, said 
Charles Shields, GAU’s com-munications chair. As a union representing graduate assistants, GAU negotiated for costs to re-main unchanged.
Shields said graduate assis-
tants, the lowest-paid employees at UF, won’t be able to afford the 
cost increases. 
GAU wanted to make their position clear outside UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs’ ofﬁ  ce.
“We want to make a state-
ment to them — and where bet-ter to do that than in their front yard,” Shields said.
For about an hour, they sat 
around a light tan, pentagon cloth sign, slit down the middle with a red painted health care “plus” sign and the words “GAU CARES” underneath. 
This represented a makeshift 
ﬁ  eld hospital graduate assis-tants would have to start if they couldn’t afford traditional hos-pitals, said Sebastian Sclofsky, GAU’s organizing chair.
“In many ways it feels like 
that’s where UF is trying to take us,” Sclofsky said, referring to the idea of setting up a ﬁ  eld hos-pital for graduate assistants.
“They can argue that it’s a 
question of money, but I want to ask President Fuchs if he thinks that the shrubs in the Plaza of 
Americas are more important 
than GAs,” Sclofsky said.
As protesters cheered on, Bill 
Connellan, UF’s chief bargainer, watched by the foot of the steps. He said it was interesting seeing GAU’s portrayal of negotiations.
“The issue is a complex one,” 
he said. “The graduate assistants 
have the most robust health care 
plan on campus.”
When the rally ended, GAU 
members offered leftover Five Star Pizza to Connellan.
“We bargain at the table, we 
don’t bargain here,” Connellan said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgNew Publix prepares 
for summer openingGAU protests health care costsCAMPUS
“W e bargain at the table, we 
don’t bargain here.”
Bill Connellan
UF’s chief bargainerMONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Discussions about the ownership 
of Gainesville’s local biomass plant 
will continue after the Gainesville Re-newable Energy Center rejected the 
city commission’s new offer to buy 
the plant. 
The rejection came roughly 12 
hours after the city commission de-cided Thursday to accept a recom-
mendation from the Gainesville 
Regional Utilities’ Utility Advisory 
Board to draft its own contract and 
lower the price from $750 million to $675 million.
“We need to stay with what we 
negotiated if we are to transact,” 
GREC president Jim Gordon wrote in 
an email to GRU General Manager Ed 
Bielarski.
The city wants to purchase GREC 
so that it may exit a $2.1 billion con-
tract with the plant and reduce elec-tric bills for GRU customers by about 10 percent. In an original March 22 
memorandum of understanding, 
which would allow the city to take 
the next steps toward a buyout of the 
contract, commissioners proposed purchasing the plant for $750 million. However, at a nearly four-hour 
meeting Thursday night, UAB chair-man Darin Cook advised commis-
sioners that $750 million was far too 
high, which was a concern echoed 
by other citizens at the meeting.
“I think we’re leaving money on 
the table,” Cook said. “Lots of money.”
He recommended that the com-
mission draft its own contract with 
GREC and lower the price to $675 
million. 
A 4-3 vote approved the motion 
to accept the board’s advice. District 
I Commissioner Charles Goston, Dis-
trict II Commissioner Todd Chase, District III Commissioner Craig Carter 
and Commissioner Harvey Budd (At-
large) approved the deal.
“My business sense says this is 
the right thing to do,” Budd said.
Mayor Lauren Poe, At-large Com-
missioner Helen Warren and Dis-
trict 4 Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos were the dissenting votes. Although all three agreed that GRU should draft its own contract, they 
didn’t want to delay negotiations any 
longer in fear that it could potentially 
ruin the negotiating process with 
GREC.
Commissioner Warren said she was not surprised by GREC’s rejec-tion and is hoping GREC ofﬁ  cials will 
continue negotiations despite the hic-
cup, and agree to the original price.
“I’m glad to see the GREC party 
responded quickly, and I’m anxious to see if we’ll move forward with the 
previous agreement of price,” War-
ren said.
A special meeting to discuss what 
will happen next among GREC, 
the commission and GRU has been 
scheduled for April 19 at 6 p.m.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgGREC rejects $675 million oﬀ  er from city commission, GRU
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
BugFest 2017 attendees observe a beehive of about 6,000 Italian 
honey bees behind Steinmetz Hall on Saturday.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Rose Ashby, 9, picked a maggot 
up with tweezers, dipped it in bright 
pink paint and watched it crawl around a piece of paper, creating a unique bug design.
After watching the maggot 
“paint,” the third-grader waited for her favorite event during Saturday’s UF BugFest: the cockroach race. 
“I really want to get a hissing 
cockroach as a pet, but my parents won’t let me,” she said.
Ashby was one of about 450 peo-
ple at the annual event, hosted by the UF Entomology Club since 2011, according to Alligator archives. 
Along with the cockroach race, 
participants attended seminars in Steinmetz Hall and suited up in bee-keeper uniforms to observe a bee-hive.
The event cost $935 to organize 
and was paid for with Student Gov-ernment funds, said BugFest direc-tor Sage Thompson.
At the cockroach race, Michael 
Gonzalez, a 25-year-old UF entomol-ogy master’s student, wore a cock-roach costume while encouraging a group of about six Girl Scouts to race male Madagascar hissing cock-roaches. 
Once members of the 1616 
Starke, Florida, Girl Scout troop warmed up to the bugs, they took turns letting insects crawl across their arms.
Participants in groups of about 
16 also wore beekeeper attire to get close to a small Italian honey bee-hive with about 6,000 bees, said 
Austin Rankin, a member of UF’s 
Honey Bee Club.
“I think it’s really good to get 
kids out here because there isn’t a lot of environmental education,” the 20-year-old UF sustainability and the built environment sophomore said.Roaches race, bees buzz at BugFest
By Jessica Giles 
and Jimena T avel
Alligator Writers
Roughly $5,000 was raised Sat-
urday toward establishing a suicide 
prevention and advocacy group at UF.
A group of about 120 UF stu-
dents and Gainesville-area residents marched about 2 miles through 
UF’s campus as a part of the second 
annual Out of the Darkness Cam-
pus Walk, hosted by a UF student organization of the same name.
The organization has raised 
$10,200 total so far but will con-tinue raising money until June to donate to the university and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, said Jaclyn Krantzler, a UF statistics junior who organized 
the event.
Krantzler said half of this year’s 
funds will be used for UF to create 
a suicide prevention and advocacy group, while the other half will be donated to the AFSP.
Krantzler said she organized 
the walk, which started at 9 a.m. on Flavet Field, to help reduce the stigma around suicide and encour-age people to talk about it. Before and after the walk, speakers shared their experiences with suicide and stories of how they lost others. 
“There were a lot of tears in gen-
eral,” Krantzler said. “People really resonated with some of the stories.”
The group raised more than 
double what they raised last year, when about 50 people attended and raised $2,700, she said. While walking, participants 
wore colored beads that indicated why they were participating, with reasons including the loss of friends or loved ones.
Hanna Clayton, a UF English 
sophomore, said the colored beads were an expression of unity. 
“Other people can visualize that 
you are not alone, and there are so many other people going through situations like this,” the 19-year-old said.
Campus walk raises $5,000 for UF suicide prevention group
About 120 people took part in the walkThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s pointless to 
boycott Pepsi
Quick recap: Last week, Pepsi came out with a really 
out-of-touch commercial starring Kendall Jenner, who leaves a photoshoot and brings peace to a vague protest by handing an ofﬁ  cer a can of Pepsi. People were, understandably, upset. The commercial was in 
poor taste, trivializing serious matters of protest, such as the Black Lives Matter movement, to an issue that can be solved with a can of Pepsi.
Pepsi did what large corporations everywhere have done for 
years: They found a hot-button topic, and they tried to capi-
talize on it. Do you think the executives at Dove truly care if 
you “Love your body”? Maybe a few of them do, but mostly 
they’re just happy that you’re buying their products. Does the 
CEO of Panera Bread actually have concerns about clean food? 
He might, but also he might be banking off the fact that clean, 
“healthy” food is “in.” We might never know whether these 
corporations have the best intentions or if they’re simply cash-
ing in on the trends, but the fact is, what Pepsi did is not new. 
The difference, however, is that they failed miserably at it.
In true information age manner, the internet took quickly to 
calling Pepsi out for how obviously bad this commercial was 
and the company retracted the ad. Now, it’s unlikely that the marketing heads at Pepsi truly understand what they did wrong. At this point, they probably want to avoid further scandal, es-
pecially with their No. 1 competitor, Coca-Cola, leaping in on 
Twitter to reply to those who are allegedly swearing off Pepsi. So hopefully they will learn from this lesson and bounce back with a better ad campaign. Or maybe they’ll just hang their heads for a while until people forget about the whole thing.
But before you swear that you’ll never drink Pepsi again, 
here’s something to remember. Unless you can somehow mo-bilize hundreds of millions of people to do the same, you’re not really going to make a dent in their revenue. They’ve learned their lesson already, whether genuinely or just to save face. 
Boycotting is null. They may suffer a brief sales dip, bad PR for 
a bit, but eventually they will move on.
We see it time and again from all ends of the political spec-
trum. Target says they support gender-neutral restrooms, and suddenly conservative organizations and their members are 
swearing off Target. Chick-ﬁ  l-A says it’s against marriage equal-
ity — looks like all the liberals aren’t enjoying Chick-n-Minis. But look — Oreo supports marriage equality. Guess those Tar-get protestors aren’t going to be enjoying milk’s favorite cookie. 
Throw Pepsi in the mix, and the left-wing boycotter is out of 
luck when trying to ﬁ  nd dining options on campus.
Liberal, conservative or somewhere in between, it’s ridicu-
lous to think that refusing to buy Oreos or Pepsi is going to make signiﬁ  cant change. It might make it easier for one person 
to have their purchasing preference, but the same goes for hun-
dreds of millions of people who will take the opposite prefer-ence. 
If you’re boycotting a chain or product for your own moral 
reasons, if you will not be able to sleep at night knowing Pepsi now has $2.50 of your money, then that is your decision. We know that there are some big companies out there with prob-lematic means of production and unethical business practices 
that do, perhaps, sit poorly with the consumer. But if the reason 
you boycott is to try to somehow defeat the company, then I’m sorry to say you’re not going to make a difference. Buy that Pepsi and take to Twitter instead.
Mistakes, misunderstandings and nature of jazz
As with most cliches and motivational 
quotes, I’ve forgotten where I ﬁ  rst heard the following one regarding 
jazz music. It goes something like 
this: “When you play the wrong note 
once, it’s a mistake. When you play it again, it’s jazz.” On ﬁ  rst pass, it seems like a subtle 
jab at jazz music as a genre, as if every jazz 
musician out there just hits wrong keys all the time, muttering something to the effect of, “Yeah, man, it’s interpretive art. You wouldn’t under-stand.”
Of course, that’s simply not the case (nor is it the 
focus of this column). Actually, I think that quote com-pliments the intentionality of jazz and the jazz musi-cian. The “wrong” note isn’t truly wrong; we thought 
it sounded a little off-key, but it’s all part of the beauty 
of jazz’s eccentricity and its unwillingness to sound like everything else. Jazz isn’t a collection of mistakes. If we perceive it as such, then we misunderstand the nature of mistakes.
We can have some foresight, but we typically evaluate 
the real-life consequences of our actions retroactively. People who tell you otherwise either conﬂ  ate intentions with results or still use Magic 8-Balls to make their deci-
sions. (“What do you mean ‘try again later’? Class starts 
in 10 minutes, and I need to know if I should study for this quiz now!”) In other words, we can’t predict the future. We can only try our very best to align our actions with our intended ends.
I think we frequently put too much pressure on our-
selves to constantly achieve those desired ends. We’re unwilling to commit what we consider “mistakes” be-cause those actions appear too far off the beaten track; in 
fact, oftentimes we prefer to play it safe — with our mu-
sic, our clothes, our relationships, even our food choices — because we’re afraid of making mistakes. Or, perhaps even worse, we’re afraid of others perceiving us of having made mistakes.
I’ll speak for myself here. I know I’m guilty 
of this behavior. At times, I censor how I act or what I say out of fear of looking mistaken. But like the nature of jazz music, perceiving my off-key actions as wrong simply because 
they deviate from the norm confuses mistakes 
with some of the most important aspects of our lives: risk-taking, creativity, adventure 
and innovation. Without these so-called “mistakes,” we are doomed to mundanity. We would sound like every-
one else.
In a society obsessed with image, I’ve found it dif-
ﬁ  cult not to similarly obsess over how I look, what I do 
and how others might perceive these characteristics. 
I’ve worried that instead of embodying the beauty in the 
uniqueness of jazz music, I’ve simply been playing all the wrong notes. It’s only with this deeper reﬂ  ection that I’ve realized how the desire to be different is essential to a healthy, functioning community that prizes both its 
diversity and its imagination.
If any of this rings true for you the way it did for me, 
know that you aren’t alone in toeing the space between 
the beaten track and the road less traveled. One is not 
wrong or right based solely on the path chosen. Keep 
your intentions in mind.
I began with a vague quote, so I think I’ll end with a 
more direct quote from a poem I keep tacked to my bul-letin board. It’s by E. E. Cummings, and it goes like this: 
“To be nobody but yourself — in a world which is doing 
its best, night and day, to make you everybody else — means to ﬁ  ght the hardest battle which any human being can ﬁ  ght; and never stop ﬁ  ghting.”
I’m rooting for you.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and law and phi-
losophy junior. Her column appears on Mondays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Plans ‘paused’ for IBC
MCDA: Institutes Project Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs began working on a project to 
rebuild the Institute of Black Culture and the In-stitute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures last summer, with student input at different points through-out the process. In the last week, I’ve heard concerns from students surrounding the design and lack of involvement. As a UF alumnus who found a home at the IBC, I recognize and re-spect the history, signiﬁ  cance and ﬁ  ght for these spaces. I want to hear more from our students and alumni, ensuring that I am attending to the 
experiences of past, present and future Gators. 
So, we are pushing pause and going back to 
the drawing board. We will still rebuild the in-
stitutes. The current condition of the facilities has not changed. But we will reexamine plans, 
bring back architects and work to get more 
ideas, opinions and voices. I greatly appreciate the feedback from students regarding increased communication. We will be implementing many of those ideas moving forward. I will be form-
ing student advisory and alumni advisory com-
mittees for each of the institutes. These com-
mittees will play an integral role in the design 
and construction process moving forward. More information will be sent out regarding the com-
mittees early next week. I hope many students 
and alumni show interest in serving on the com-mittees. Additionally, I want students to know that UF Student Affairs has been advocating for increased resources for this project. This past 
week, the UF Capital Improvement Trust Fund 
committee met, and their recommendation for 
more support is moving to the next step for ap-
proval. I share your passion for these spaces, and I look forward to more conversations. 
Will Atkins is the executive director of UF’s 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs.
8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
“It’s not a literal thing, it’s more 
artistic.”
In 2008, he drove to California, 
where he chose homelessness to 
feel “absolutely embraced by Mother Nature.”  He slept on 
the beaches of Santa Monica and 
Los Angeles, but would stay in shelters when the weather got cold.
He stood at the University of 
California, Los Angeles campus and held up a peace symbol sign, just because. They called him the “Peace Guy.”
He is 5 feet 6 inches tall and 
weighs about 180 pounds. He exercises for 30 minutes every day to keep his muscles active. 
His favorite workout is the static 
leg squat. 
He wakes up at about 9 a.m. 
to blog about philosophy and 
computer programming. “Time is nothing other than the infinite fullness that is the self. Time, in the strictest sense, is simply the 
absolute fullness that is given by 
pure experience,” he once wrote. He then eats a slice of toast with cream cheese.
He doesn’t want to be 
remembered “for any stupid, 
hand-holding, kumbaya, save-the-world kind of s---, because nobody believes in that anyway.”
He once tried to create a 
software program that “could 
take over the world.” Now he uses his computer to post photos 
of himself modeling in women’s 
clothing.
He is looking for love, but has 
yet to find it.
Once a week, he buys a 
microwave pizza and a 16 ounce can of Bud Light from a gas station before downloading a movie to watch.
He never talks about his 
income. “There are specific people out there who are my guardian angels as far as money 
goes,” he says. “The thing that I 
occupy my life with is changing the world, being the Peace Guy.” 
He yells at frat boys and 
catcalls at girls. He likes being 
loud. 
He knows his shorts are too 
short. He doesn’t care. 
He was charged with 
trespassing on Turlington Plaza 
in 2012 for making threatening statements to students. He moved to a public sidewalk 5 feet from campus and continued his 
performance. 
He sees himself as an outsider 
who doesn’t conform. A noble 
savage, he’ll say.He travels almost everywhere 
on his black Hyper SpinFit bicycle. There’s a basket on the back for his backpack and the two or three water bottles he brings to campus with him each day. The 
almost 5-mile bike ride from his 
home to Turlington Plaza usually takes him half an hour.
He estimates the police have 
been called on him more than 20 times for disturbing the peace. 
He sometimes wears a pair of 
earplugs to drown out the noise of the busy world around him. 
On his way home from 
Turlington Plaza, he likes to stop by the Starbucks on Archer Road to download YouTube videos 
on philosophy to his Google 
Chromebook laptop. He’ll make a salad and watch the videos later that night.
“I have the tendency to get 
a little bit emotional,” he’ll say. “But I like to liven things up.” 
His favorite color is blue, and 
he wears gray shoes.
You’ve seen him before.You will likely see him again.His name is Dennis Harran 
Kane.
@chesnesmax 
mchesnes@alligator.org DENNIS,  from pg.1You’ve heard his rants. 
You’ve seen him dance. But here’s what you didn’t know. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dennis Kane graduated from George D. Chamberlain High 
School in 1993. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Kane lies on his bed in Fletcher Hall during his freshman year at UF.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Kane sits on the floor of his dorm in Yulee Hall during his sophomore year at UF.
MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Alligator Advertisers Alligator AdvertisersAttention
Display 352-376-4482
Classiﬁed 352-373-3463The Alligator will not be publishing from
Thursday, April 20th
to Monday, May 8th
The deadline for Tuesday, May 9th 
is Friday, May 5th by 4:00 p.m.
for Display & Classiﬁed Ads THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
 Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
There’s a new kind of ice cream 
on West University Avenue.
This weekend, UF students 
and Gainesville residents headed 
to Mr. Cool Ice Cream, a Thai-
style ice cream shop that opened 
Thursday at 1025 W. University 
Ave.
Instead of scoops or softserve, 
servers scrape ﬂ  attened ice cream 
into rolls before adding whatever 
toppings and sauces the customer 
requests. Customers can select 
pre-made options, which start at 
$5.59 before tax, or choose their 
own ice cream roll ﬂ  avor and top-
pings. 
Dong “Sam” Zheng, the store’s 
co-owner, said he decided to 
bring the idea to Gainesville af-
ter seeing similar, successful ice cream roll shops in both Thailand 
and New York City. 
He opened up shop in the 
space left vacant after Karma 
Cream’s relocation.
The 29-year-old estimated that 
after opening Thursday and pro-
moting a buy one, get one free 
deal over the weekend, employ-
ees had served more than 1,000 
customers as of Sunday.
“Ice cream is not only for eat-
ing, it’s for playing,” said Zheng, 
a UF electrical engineering doc-
toral student. “I opened this for 
fun, so people can come and en-
joy.”
Alton Wong, 19, visited the 
ice cream shop two days in a row 
this weekend. On both visits, he 
bought coffee-ﬂ  avored ice cream 
rolls with Oreos and strawberries.
“I like this just for the novelty 
of it,” the UF ﬁ  nance sophomore said. “It’s just a different way to 
make the ice cream.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgUF student opens up Thai-style 
ice cream roll shop near campus
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Employees at Mr. Cool Ice Cream handmake ice cream after 
pouring milk, fruit and other ingredients onto an ice grill.
By Mollee Jakubisin
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s Counseling and Wellness 
Center’s AWARE Ambassadors are 
hosting a weeklong event series 
starting on Monday to destigma-
tize mental health. 
The events, called #UFi-
sAWARE, will be held daily from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., said Amanda 
Lawson-Ross, a coordinator for 
the AWARE Ambassadors, also 
known as Awareness Wellness 
Ambassadors Reaching Everyone. 
Each event will focus on a differ-
ent topic regarding mental health, 
including mindfulness on Monday 
and wellness on Wednesday. 
“Just to kind of normalize it and see that we all have one of 
those moments where we need to 
talk to someone else,” said Law-
son-Ross, a licensed psychologist 
employed at the CWC. 
All of the events will be held by 
Century Tower, except for Thurs-
day’s event on the North Lawn, 
which includes physical activities 
for students. Ronald Levinson, AWARE’s di-
rector of external programming, 
said all activities were designed by 
the ambassadors. 
Levinson, a 19-year-old UF 
biochemistry and molecular biol-
ogy sophomore, said he wanted to 
join AWARE after struggling with 
depression and anxiety in high 
school. 
“If I could get just one person to 
utilize the resources at the Coun-
seling and Wellness Center then all the work I’ve put into this pro-
gram will be worth it,”  he said. 
John Kim, a UF microbiology 
and cell science junior, said he 
wants to attend an event to do his 
part to destigmatize mental health 
issues.
 “We are the ones who will be 
the future parents, doctors, law-
yers, etc.,” he said, “so we are the 
ones who will have the greatest 
ability to bring about this change.”Student group hosting week of events on mental health
Events will be from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. LOCAL
MR. COOL ICE CREAM 
STAFF FAVORITES
• “Strawberry Lady”: 
Strawberry ice cream 
and Guana (vanilla type) 
cracker topping
• “Monkey Business”: 
Banana ice cream and 
Nutella topping
• “Oreo’s Secret”: Vanilla ice 
cream and Oreo topping
• “S’mores Galore”: Graham 
cracker ice cream and 
Chocolate toppingMONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-12-17-10-2
1BR/1BA condo, walking to UF/Shands, cov-ered parking, washer/dryer, AC, dishwasher, refrigerator, oven/range, microwave, $775/m (includes high speed internet), July 1st, 352-871-2871.      4-11-17-5-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands & Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    4-18-17-7-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 8 ElectronicsMONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 “__ Noon”: Gary
Cooper classic
5 Tippy watercraft
10 “Make it snappy,”
in memos
14 Length-times-
width calculation
15 Take place
16 Pleasant
17 *Niña and Pinta’s
sister ship
19 Camper’s
quarters
20 Like some rye
bread
21 Number of little
pigs, in a fable
22 Decorative theme
24 Crystal ball
reader
25 Up to now28 *Leader of the
pack
32 Surfing at one’s
desk, say
34 Places for studs
35 Fellow
36 Rod’s fishing
partner
37 “__ you go
again!”
39 Like Solomon40 Aunt, in
Argentina
41 Fashionably
smart
42 Crusty roll
44 *Yale, for five
U.S. presidents
47 “SNL” host’s
monologue, e.g.
48 Door-to-door
cosmetics seller
49 Cavalry sword, in
Sussex
51 Kitchen cover-up?
53 Granola
alternative
56 Luau torch type57 Coffee break
time ... and a hintto an abbreviationaptly placed ineach answer to astarred clue
61 Opinion column,
for short
62 Unfamiliar (to)
63 Director
Preminger
64 Baseball’s
“Amazins”
65 Bamboo lover66 Karate awardDOWN
1 “__ it been that
long?”
2 Tax-sheltered
plans: Abbr.
3 Heredity unit
4 Venomous
letters
5 Cleaner sold in
green canisters
6 National park in
Maine
7 ATM maker
8 Avignon assent
9 Division of
history
10 “O Canada,” e.g.11 *Renamed
lemon-lime softdrink
12 Clearasil target13 Rose of 
baseball
18 Festoon21 Lipton products23 Takes for a
sucker
24 Princess Fiona’s
beloved ogre
25 Somewhat,
informally
26 NBC newsman
Roger
27 *Spot for bargain
hunters29 Golfer’s goal30 Surgical beam31 January, in
Mexico
33 Hawke of
“Boyhood”
38 Triple or homer39 One who scoffs
at boxed Merlot,say
41 “Hurry up, will
ya?”
43 TV network, e.g.45 Sidesteps
46 Smashed into
50 “__ sera”: Italian
“Good evening”
51 Proton’s place52 Plumbing unit54 Calorie-friendly
55 Not domestic,
flight-wise: Abbr.
57 Travel guide
58 Dockworker’s gp.59 Clamorous noise60 Understood
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/10/1704/10/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, April 10, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. Who was the first back-to-back 
MVP winner in National League his-
tory?
2. Entering 2017, who had the best 
career regular-season winning per -
centage (minimum of two seasons) of any Houston Astros manager?
3. In 2015, Brandon Marshall of the 
New York Jets became the first NFL receiver to have six 100-catch sea-sons. Who had he been tied with at 
five?
4. Villanova’s men’s basketball team 
set a record in 2016 for the biggest 
margin of victory in Final Four histo-ry (44 points). What had been the big-gest margin?
5. In 2016, Florida’s Jaromir 
Jagr moved to second on the NHL career-scoring list. Who had been  
No. 2?
6. Who was the last woman before 
Katie Ledecky in 2016 to sweep the 200-, 400- and 800-meter freestyle 
swimming events at one Olympics?
7. How many consecutive Ryder 
Cup teams has golfer Phil Mickelson 
been a part of?
Answers
1. Ernie Banks of the Chicago Cubs, 
in 1958-59.
2. Larry Dierker had a .556 winning 
percentage (435-348) from 1997 to 2001.
3. Andre Johnson and Wes Welker.4. Cincinnati (1963) and Michigan 
State (1979) each won a Final Four game by 34 points.
5. Mark Messier, with 1,887 points.6. American Debbie Meyer, in 1968.7. Eleven consecutive teams.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 10, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14
Bilingual paralegal for Immigration Law firm, part-time. 10 - 15 hrs per week. Will train. Must be fluent in Spanish and English. Please email resume to rjjimmigration@gmail.com.      4-13-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Budget Lawn Cuts
Full service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Ingrid Neel led the Florida women's tennis team to a pair of hard-fought wins to close the team's regular season. Read the story, pg. 15. Sergio Garcia wins 2017 Masters
The 37-year-old golfer won the tournament by one stroke after a sudden-
death playoff, where he beat Justin Rose. It was his ﬁ  rst-ever major win. By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer 
As Feleipe Franks took to the lec-
tern to face reporters and cameras, 
one question stumped him. 
“Are you more uplifted by the deep 
ball to (Josh) Hammond,” he was asked, “or more frustrated with miss-ing (Jordan) Scarlett in the ﬂ  at?”
The question was referencing 
Franks’ 46-yard pass to Hammond on his ﬁ  rst drive and an overthrow in 
the second quarter of Florida’s Spring 
game Friday night. 
Franks smiled and looked beside 
him, unsure how to respond. 
“Funny,” he said. “You know, I 
think overall the offense played well.”
Though UF’s frontrunner in the 
quarterback race danced around the 
question, ultimately praising his of-fensive line and blaming himself on the misﬁ  re to his running back, the question was symbolic of the Gators offense’s current state. 
Do they look back on years of ugly, 
conservative quarterback play and 
dwindling offensive numbers? Or do 
they look to the future, which judging after this weekend seems to be in bet-ter hands than in past seasons?
Florida didn't rank among the 
SEC’s top-10 scoring offenses in either 2016 or ’15, but with Franks at the  Franks should have strong supporting cast
The Masters, golf’s ﬁ  rst major tournament of the year, 
ended on Sunday. And while Sergio Garcia won, all 
of us lost. 
We lost because those of us who have watched or 
played golf have been suckered into the biggest con of 
the sports industry. Golf is a scam. 
Nowadays, golf exits to funnel millions of dollars from un-
suspecting fans to apparel companies — the Nikes, the Under 
Armours, the Callaways of the world. 
The Masters was impossible to miss over the weekend. 
It dominated coverage over the NBA, MLB and other major 
sports. And there’s still three more major tournaments this year. It makes me question why there’s so much coverage for a game with such a small niche audience.
Nobody really wants to watch golf. So why does the media 
constantly cover the world’s most boring sport? It's because the tournaments on TV seduce us into playing golf. 
You see the lush greenery on TV, and you think to your-
self, “Hey, that looks fun. I should play golf!”
Don’t you dare follow through with that idea. Golf has a laughably unattainable learning curve. Since you 
haven't been the beneﬁ  ciary of hundreds of dollars spent on golf lessons growing up, you will: A) miss the ball B) shank the ball into the nearest body of water C) hit a great shot, and then curse yourself out when you screw it up on the next shot. 
But if you’re undeterred and still want to play, you’ll get 
gobsmacked by the next ridiculous barrier to entry: the price to tee it up.
It’s irrationally expensive. Want to play basketball? Buy a ball and go to a court. 
Soccer? Buy a ball and go to a ﬁ  eld. 
Golf? Spend hundreds on equipment (good luck ﬁ  nding a 
useful set of clubs for under $400). Spend hundreds on clothes (since golf attire demands polo shirts, slacks and shoes). And break the bank again for a country club membership, so you can schmooze with stuffy stiffs who act like plantation owners. 
Or maybe your city has a public golf course, where you 
can pay $60 for the privilege of getting a sunburn while you wait for your cofﬁ  n-on-wheels golf cart to break down on the sixth hole. 
This is my plea: Don’t play golf. While out-of-shape old 
guys on TV make it look easy, you’re going to be unfathomably frustrated when you inevitably fail. 
Those tournaments are fake anyway. It’s just Tiger Woods 
and Happy Gilmore pulling strings behind the scenes. Nike and friends want you think: "Oh, if only I had that new putter and with a little practice, I could be on the PGA Tour!"
Trust me. You don’t want to play golf. What you’re looking 
for is miniature golf. All the stress of a real round but without the cost of community college tuition.
As one of my roommates put it while watching the Masters: 
“This really wants to make me go play golf, and that’s awful.”Golf: The world’s most 
costly conspiracy
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Feleipe Franks drops back to pass during Friday's Spring football game at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. He went 8-of-14 passing for 119 yards and a touchdown in the game.
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer 
Needing clutch outs to preserve 
a sweep-avoiding win, coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan turned to the loser. 
In Florida’s past two games, reliever 
Michael Byrne allowed extra-inning 
runs to give Tennessee a pair of wins. In 
both games, he took the loss. But with runners on second and third, no outs and a one-run lead, he was the man O’Sullivan wanted on the mound. 
He started by inducing a ﬂ  y ball to 
shallow centerﬁ  eld that looked poised to tie the game. But shortstop Dalton Guth-rie tracked it down, making a sliding catch with his eyes facing the outﬁ  eld. 
“I kinda just turned around, looked 
back up at one point, and it was there,” Guthrie said, adding that it was a lucky 
play. 
Byrne followed that up with a strike-
out. He clapped his glove and started 
walking toward the dugout, appearing to think the inning was over. He denied thinking that after the game. 
“I don’t even know what was go-
ing through my head,” he said. “I just wanted to get back on the mound and get that third out.”
After walking the next Tennessee hit-ter to load the bases, it was up to Jus-tin Ammons. He worked the count full. He fouled off two pitches. And ﬁ  nally, he chopped a ball back at Byrne, who jumped to grab it and threw to ﬁ  rst for 
the out. 
“I always get made fun of because 
I’m not an athlete — they think,” Byrne 
said. “They’re wrong.”
From there, Tennessee never threat-
ened again. Behind another scoreless in-ning from Byrne, the Gators preserved a 5-4 win and avoided being swept by the Volunteers for the ﬁ  rst time since 2001.  Gators salvage ﬁ  nal game of seriesMONDAY MATTERS / OPINION
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14BASEBALL14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
helm of UF’s attack, it may be time 
to look forward. 
After head coach Jim McElwain 
said the redshirt freshman was 
the leading candidate to start 
next season, Franks addressed 
detractors of Florida’s scoring capabilities. “I think it motivates every play-
er,” he said. “We try not to listen to what outsiders or people have to 
say about the offense… I think we 
can use it as conﬁ  dence.”
There’s good reason McElwain 
and Franks are conﬁ  dent. 
Florida will return a respectable 
offensive line that went from dead last in the country in sacks allowed (45) in 2015 to 28 sacks in 2016. Also returning will be a full stable of running backs in Jordan Scarlett, Lamical Perine and Mark Thomp-
son. Then you have big-play 
threats in receivers Antonio Calla-way, Tyrie Cleveland and Brandon Powell among others.
As long as UF isn’t severely bit-
ten by the injury bug, there isn’t any reason it can’t win the SEC East again. “We’re better,” McElwain said 
of the offense. “We’re continuing to get there.”
But any hopes of an SEC title 
rest on Franks’ arm, if he is ulti-mately deemed the starter in the Fall. 
Treon Harris couldn’t do it. Aus-
tin Appleby couldn’t either. 
Only time will tell if Feleipe 
Franks falls in the same category. “We gotta go with who’s gonna 
give us the best opportunity to win ball games,” McElwain said. “And 
at the end of the day, that’s what 
we’ve got to do is win ball games. And we’ve won a couple since we’ve been here, and we just gotta win more.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org 
FOOTBALL,  from pg.13Franks: 'W e try not to listen to what outsiders... have to say'It was, however, their ﬁ  rst series loss 
to UT since 2008. 
“It’s unfortunate that he’s got two 
L's next to his name, but it wasn’t be-cause of him,” O’Sullivan said of By-
rne. “It wasn’t because of him at all.”
Aside from Byrne’s exciting 
eighth inning, the game hinged on 
two more moments, starting in the bottom of the fourth. That’s when Guthrie tapped home plate with the game teetering toward a blowout. 
The bases were loaded, no one 
was out and Florida’s junior short-
stop faced a 3-0 count with a two-run 
lead. 
He took ﬁ  rst on a walk, forcing in 
a run. 
He also caused Tennessee (17-12, 
3-9 SEC) to make a pitching change, and on his ﬁ  rst two tosses, UT’s Eric Freeman served up a pair of RBIs. The No. 8 Gators (21-11, 6-6 SEC) cleared the bases. 
As it turned out, those three runs 
were the difference in the game. 
The other key moment came in 
the top of the sixth. 
After coming in with the bases 
loaded and no outs, freshman re-liever Garrett Milchin drilled the ﬁ  rst batter he faced. 
“Here we go again,” someone 
yelled from the stands.
Milchin then induced a pop out, 
and it looked like the inning was 
going to be over on a groundball to 
third. It looked like a double play. But the runner beat the throw to ﬁ  rst, and another run scored. A hit to right ﬁ  eld scored another before Milchin ﬁ  nally stopped the damage just in time. 
“We weren’t playing our best 
ball,” Guthrie said, “and we found a way to win.”
Nobody stood out for Florida 
aside from Byrne. Starter Jackson Kowar moved to 5-0 on the season with a win, but he lasted ﬁ  ve innings and allowed three earned runs. 
On offense, meanwhile, four 
Gators had RBIs while six had hits. Nelson Maldonado and Christian Hicks had hits two apiece. 
O’Sullivan said he thought the of-
fense improved over the weekend, adding that it’ll need to be consistent with the team facing a four-game road stretch against No. 24 Florida 
State and Vanderbilt. 
“It is what it is at this point,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We’ll continue to 
work and hopefully get some good at bats with runners in scoring posi-tion.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg.13Kowar lasted ive innings and allowed three earned runs  
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Michael Byrne pitches during UF's loss to T ennessee on Saturday.
MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Ingrid Neel was angry. 
The lone freshman on the Gators 
women’s tennis team was down 
1-0 in her second set when she dis-agreed with an umpire’s ruling. Af-ter arguing with the umpire to no avail, Neel gave in and was now down 2-0. That’s when she decided to get even.
Dropping only one point in three 
games, Neel played aggressively to quickly put herself up 3-2, and she didn’t stop there. After losing her ﬁ  rst set 6-3, the rookie rose up to de-feat Ole Miss’ Natalie Suk 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 and give the Gators the 4-0 win on Friday.
“She’s just a gamer,” coach 
Roland Thornqvist said. “It’s just amazing because she got waxed in the ﬁ  rst set, but she’s a gamer. She ﬁ  ghts. She’s smart, and she can raise her level in the middle of a match.”
While the Gators did manage 
to shut out the Rebels on Friday, the score was no indication of the woes they faced in singles play. The Gators dominated doubles, winning 
6-2, 6-2 with Neel and Anna Dani-
lina play on Court 1.
However, singles proved to be a 
battle for Florida as multiple match-
es either went into tiebreakers or 
third sets. 
Anna Danilina was the excep-
tion, as she was off the court quick-
ly and easily with a 6-2, 6-1 victory over Ole Miss’ Tea Jandric. 
However, the competition picked 
up after Danilina’s win. Courts 1, 3 
and 5 went to tiebreaker sets as Be-
linda Woolcock and Brooke Austin won, and Josie Kuhlman dropped her ﬁ  rst set. Although there was 
no tiebreaker involved, Neel also 
dropped her ﬁ  rst set 6-3 to the Reb-
els’ Natalie Suk. 
After playing like a “machine,” 
as Thornqvist described it, Wool-
cock was next off the court for the 
Gators as she won 7-6, 6-3 over Ari-
anne Hartono. Then, after a frustrat-
ing ﬁ  ght, Neel took the match for the 
Gators. 
Sunday was a different story as 
Thornqvist said the team was much 
more focused. This was evident in the ﬁ  nal score, as Florida secured a 
7-0 sweep over Mississippi State. 
The doubles duos of Kuhlman/
Woolcock and Austin/Kourtney 
Keegan took another easy doubles 
point as both won their sets 6-2.
While Florida’s singles matches 
were mentally tough on Sunday, the Gators found a way to grind it out 
on all courts.
After dominating the Bulldogs’ 
Madison Harrison, Kuhlman was off 
the singles court ﬁ  rst with a double-
bagel victory.
Danilina was next for the Gators, 
winning 6-4, 6-0 over Anastasia 
Rentouli. Although she had to work 
to wear down her opponent, Wool-
cock followed Danilina with a 6-3, 
6-1 victory over Jasmine Lee.
But while Woolcock’s win 
clinched the match for the Gators, 
Mississippi State coach Daryl Green-
an wanted to play on, so Florida ﬁ  n-
ished the rest of its matches.
Spencer Liang quickly ﬁ  nished 
her set, beating Sara Lizariturry 
6-2, 6-4. Neel faced another battle 
on Sunday, winning 6-1, 7-6 over 
MSU’s Lisa Marie Rioux. Her tie-breaker went 26 points deep, as she eventually won 14-12 and clinched 
her match.
And ﬁ  nally, after not playing her 
best tennis, Keegan found a way to win 7-6, 6-4 over the Bulldog’s 
Khrystyna Vozniak.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org  Gators face tough singles challenges against Ole Miss 
By Skyler Lebron 
Sports Writer 
For a group that’s averaged 
six runs through its ﬁ  rst 12 SEC 
contests, Florida’s defense was its best asset in its game against Georgia on Sunday.
A night after Janell Wheaton 
zinged a ball over the pitcher’s circle to get an out at second, the junior catcher displayed her arm once again.
In the top of the third, Whea-
ton used her quick reaction time to throw out a Bulldogs runner trying to swipe an extra base.
The two next plays also showed 
off Florida’s defensive abilities, with impressive line-drive catches from inﬁ  elders Nicole DeWitt and Kayli Kvistad.
“Our defense is unreal,” Gour-
ley said. “I love watching them at practice when the pitchers are kicked off the ﬁ  eld so the rest of the team can do work.” 
It was that impressive defense 
from the Gators that squashed most of the momentum the Bull-dogs could muster, leading to a 4-1 series-clinching win for Florida (36-2, 12-1 SEC).
Hits weren’t the issue for Geor-
gia (27-12, 2-9 SEC). The team reg-istered eight hits total, two more than the No. 3 Gators. But when Georgia threatened to score with runners on base, the Gators re-sponded.
The biggest push from the Bull-
dogs came in the top of the ﬁ  fth frame, when they loaded the bas-es and got their only run across home plate.
Facing a 
tough situation, 
Gourley tossed 
a lightly-hit ball home to Whea-ton to prevent any further scor-ing.
In the next 
Bulldog at-bat, 
Gourley earned a three-pitch strikeout to strand three runners and sustain a three-run lead.
“All her pitches were moving,” 
Wheaton said. “I think she was born for those moments.”
Florida’s offense, meanwhile, 
was reminiscent of its past, par-ticularly its game the previous day against Georgia.
Scoring came early in the ﬁ  rst 
inning off of a Kvistad sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y.
In the second inning, three 
more runs pushed UF’s lead to four.
But like in Saturday’s matchup, 
when the No. 19 Bulldogs brought relief pitcher Kylie Bass to the circle, the Gators were unable to register much offense.  
The sophomore caused issues with Florida’s bats, and through two nights of action she gave up just three hits and no runs in 6 and 1/3 innings pitched. 
The two teams will meet for 
a ﬁ  nal matchup to end the series on Monday at 7 p.m. back at Ka-tie Seashole Pressly stadium. It’s a chance for Florida to sweep the 
team that knocked it out of play-
off contention a season ago. Even if players insisted they don’t care about that. 
“We’re not looking back to last 
year,” Gourley said. “We wanna sweep because we wanna sweep.”
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.org 
UF  softball team uses defense to clinch series over Georgia
Gourley
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ingrid Neel attempts to hit a ball during Florida’s win over Okla-
homa State on Feb. 18 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2017
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Kadarius T oney, left, tries to avoid being tackled by defensive back McArthur Burnett 
during Friday’s Spring football game. T oney didn’t play until the third quarter, but he led all players in rushing yards with 74.  
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain addresses the team after Friday’s Spring game. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill pitches during UF’s win over Georgia on Saturday. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Blake Reese slides into home plate during the Florida baseball team’s loss to T ennessee on Saturday. The Gators lost the series against the Volunteers for the first time since 2008. 
THE WEEKEND IN PICTURES