We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 4 MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
Florida soccer beats Syracuse
Midﬁ  elder Parker Roberts’ second-half goal 
gave the Gators a 2-1 win, pg 14.
Going nearly nude for bike safety  
About 100 people biked  in their underwear on Friday , pg 9.
Newell Hall earns energy award 
The hall received a gold-level LEED accreditation, pg 4.FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
STANDARD AT SUNSET
Several residents of the newly constructed apartment complex, The Standard at Gainesville, cross from the parking garage to the main building at sunset on Sunday.
CHOSEN WOMEN WILL 
VISIT KIDS WITH LIFE-
THREATENING DISEASES.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Emma Cahoon has dreamed of 
becoming a princess for a year.
To prepare for the audition and research princesses, she studied Disney movies for a week. When the day came she woke up, did her 
makeup and drank a large cup of 
mango black tea to calm the jitters.
“I don’t think I drank enough,” 
said Cahoon before the tryout, add-
ing she has no acting experience. 
“I’m nervous.”
The 19-year-old was one of 
about 30 women who visited the Reitz Union basement at noon Sun-
day to audition for Project Princess Inc., a community service organi-
zation where women, dressed up 
as Disney princesses, visit children 
with life-threatening diseases at UF Health Shands Hospital.
The founder of the organization, 
Kiarra Brown, 25, said about 10 
princesses are cast each semester.
The judges — Brown, Brown’s hairstylist and a woman who pre-
viously played Belle — looked for attitude, stage presence and conﬁ  -
dence. They tested conversational 
skills and evaluated imperson-
ations of characters, Brown said.
Cahoon, a UF nursing sopho-
more, discovered the program last 
Fall, but her schedule didn’t allow 
her to attend auditions until this 
semester. She has volunteered at special needs classrooms helping kids with disabilities since she was in seventh grade.
After learning about Project 
Princess Inc., she knew she had to try out for Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty.
“I was thrilled,” Cahoon said. 
“I really love the idea. I think it’s Local organization holds princess auditions for students
SEE PRINCESS,  PAGE 4
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After a gunshot was heard in an 
apartment building near UF’s cam-pus and Sorority Row on Friday, Gainesville Police are searching for three suspects of a home invasion.
At about 11:35 a.m. Friday, a 
Lyncourt Square apartment resident called 911 and said she heard a gun-shot and saw three men run from 
the ﬁ  fth ﬂ  oor and down the stairs of 
her apartment building, located at 1218 SW Third Ave., according to a GPD press release.
Ofﬁ  cers suspect the incident was 
a targeted home-invasion robbery, wrote GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email.At least one of the suspects had 
a gun, Tobias said. One of the apart-
ment residents fought with a sus-
pect when a gun was ﬁ  red. No one was injured by the gunﬁ  re, Tobias said. 
At least two suspects could be 
seen in video surveillance from the time of the incident. Police de-scribed both recorded suspects as black men under 25. One suspect was described as thinly built with 
a short hair cut and no facial hair. 
He was wearing blue jeans and a red hoodie. The other suspect has short hair and some facial hair, ac-cording to the press release. He was wearing blue jeans and a black and white hoodie.
The third suspect’s description is unknown.
At 12:32 p.m. Friday, UF released 
alerts about the crime, citing that it occurred near campus and Sorority Row, where many students live. 
Tobias wrote in an email Fri-
day afternoon that detectives have strong leads in the case.
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
GPD: Gunshot heard near campus during possible robbery Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 4
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  71°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY , AUGUST 28, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Online Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerWHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Open House
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters is having its Fall 2017 Open House on Tuesday at 5:45pm in the 
Entomology Building, Room 
1031.  The Talking Gators mem-bers work to speak better, com-municate more effectively and become leaders. Meetings are 
free to attend and open to the 
public. For more information visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org/.
Fall 2017 SG elections informa-
tional meeting Fall 2017 Student Government elections are almost here. To learn more about qualifying or 
running for office, attend the 
informational meeting Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., in the Senate 
Chamber on the ground level 
of the Reitz Union. SG Elections will be held Sept. 26 and Sept. 27 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at different locations across 
campus. Please visit sg.ufl.edu/
elections for more information.
Gainesville Wing Bowl 
Team Dynamo Real Estate and 
Montini Orthodontics are host-
ing the sixth-annual Gainesville Wing Bowl to benefit the Child Advocacy Center on Tuesday 
from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at 
the Splitz Bowling Center, lo-cated at 1301 NW 76th Blvd. The event will feature a chick-en-wing-eating contest. Tickets 
cost $20 for adults, $10 for 
children ages 5 to 10 and free for children under 5. Tickets 
include admission to the event, 
dinner and one beverage. 
Santa Fe College Night 
Santa Fe College is hosting 
its annual College Night on 
Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in the Santa Fe Gymnasium, Building 5, located at 3000 NW 83rd St. Representatives from 
more than 80 colleges and uni-
versities will be on hand to meet with students from Alachua and Bradford counties, current Santa Fe students and other members 
of the community. Everyone 
interested in opportunities in higher education is invited. The event is free and open to the public. Please bring a notepad 
and a resume. Visit sfcollege.
edu/CN/ for more details.‘1984’ preview 
Come see a preview of the play 
“1984” at the Hippodrome State 
Theatre, located at 25 SE Second Place, from Wednesday to Friday. The play is being put on by the UF School of Theatre and 
Dance and is based on George 
Orwell’s best-selling novel of the same name. Tickets can be purchased at thehipp.org or at the box office. Prices vary and 
student and senior discounts are 
available.
GatorNights: Hollywood Glitz & 
GlamTo kick off a monthlong cities theme, GatorNights is having a Hollywood Glitz & Glam night Friday. Step onto the red carpet, 
get your picture taken and strut 
your stuff on the walk of fame all night. Add some relaxation to your first week back with 
salt and sugar scrubs and do-
it-yourself bath bombs. If you want to bling yourself out, stop by the body art booth for a glit-tery temporary tattoo. Featured 
in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom is LA-based a cappella group The Filharmonic, per-forming from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. Theater Strike Force will be per-
forming an “Etiquette Class” in 
the Student Senate Chamber. The film will be “Transformers: The Last Knight,” playing at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Popcorn 
and soda will be available in addition to Midnight Munchies. The Arts & Crafts Center and the Game Room will have more free 
activities throughout the night. 
GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card. 
Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event. 
West King String Band live 
Kick off the school year and football season with the West King String Band and First 
Magnitude Brewing Company, 
located at 1220 SE Veitch St., on Friday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. The event is free and open to all ages. 
‘Free Friday’ concert series: 
Heavy Petty and Hedges The City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
department is continuing its 
annual series of free, family-
friendly concerts in downtown 
Gainesville on Friday with 
Heavy Petty,  a Tom Petty and 
the Heartbreakers tribute band, 
and Hedges. The concert will be 
held on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. 
University Ave., from 8 p.m. to 
10 p.m. The event is free and 
open to all ages. The concert se-ries will continue until Oct. 20. 
Fall Study Abroad fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall study abroad fair on the North Lawn on Sept. 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad program direc-
tors and independent program 
providers will have table dis-plays and be available to an-swer questions. Former study 
abroad students will share their 
international experiences.  The UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application process and to help 
students find the right program. 
Overseas internship opportuni-ties are available. Study abroad can be used to satisfy Summer 
residency requirements, and 
most financial aid can be used. For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539. 
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21 
The David & Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service is holding a Fall 2017 
Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join 
several hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service for a wide variety of nonprofits, 
including Keep Alachua County 
Beautiful, Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, Natural Area Teaching Laboratory, Wilmot Gardens, The Repurpose 
Project, Operation Catnip and 
more. For more information, call 352-392-1215, email cls@
leadershipandservice.ufl.edu or 
visit bit.ly/daysofservice. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
DID YOU KNOW?
GCM FEATURES FREE GIFT CERTIFICATES
TO 100+ GAINESVILLE RESTAURANTS!
TO 100+ GAINESVILLE RESTAURANTS!
TO 100+ GAINESVILLE RESTAURANTS!
GAU STUCK TO THEIR 
INITIAL PROPOSAL OF 
AN $800 RAISE.
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
The Graduate Assistants 
United labor union and UF 
failed to reach an agreement 
on raises for UF’s nearly 
4,000 graduate assistants. 
At Friday’s meeting nego-
tiating stipend raises as part 
of GAU’s three-year contract, 
the union presented their counterproposal to UF’s pro-
posed verbal contract, which 
they presented Aug. 22. The 
initial deadline for the con-
tract was in June, according 
to Alligator archives. 
UF proposed a $550 raise 
and $15,000 minimum salary for graduate assistants for the 2017-2018 year, a step down 
from GAU’s initially proposed 
$800 raise and $16,000 mini-
mum salary. At the previous 
meeting, UF also offered $1 
million for the 2018-2019 year to raise wages with the 
goal of attracting top gradu-
ate assistant candidates.
This $1 million is cur-
rently set to exclusively raise minimums for new graduate 
assistant recruits, said Bobby 
Mermer, GAU’s bargaining 
chair. At the previous meet-
ing, he said the million was 
a “red herring” because it 
wouldn’t affect any current union members.
“When we bargain, we 
bargain for current employ-ees, even though they beneﬁ  t future employees as well,” Mermer said. 
At the latest round of ne-
gotiations, GAU stuck to their initial proposal of an $800 
stipend raise for this year. 
Unlike previous years, the 
union and UF also negotiated next year’s contract, which was proposed by UF, said 
GAU Communications Chair 
Josh Papacek. 
For the 2018-2019 year, 
GAU proposed a $625 raise 
beginning in August 2018. Papacek said it’s common to 
start with the larger raise and 
work down when negotiating 
a multiple-year package. 
“We have been steadily 
working towards raising minimums,” Papacek said. 
“We did not believe that 
(UF’s proposed) raise was 
adequate.” The union accepted UF’s 
proposed $1 million to in-crease wages.
GAU also proposed a 
change in fee deferral for 
Summer A, B and C for 2018.
Instead of having gradu-
ate assistants non-tuition fees due on different dates for the three Summer terms, 
GAU has proposed for fees to be due on the same date, July 21, for all three terms. 
Bill Connellan, UF’s chief 
negotiator, said he could not commit UF to agreeing to the 
fee deferral proposal because of state law and board of gov-
ernors regulations. 
“We cannot put (GAU’s 
Summer due date proposal) 
into writing and commit the 
university to violating state 
law,” Connellan said.
Connellan said it would 
take his team some time to look through GAU’s stipend 
proposal and calculate its to-
tal cost. 
GAU and UF are set to 
continue negotiations Sept. 1, nearly three months after 
the contract’s original dead-
line. 
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.orgUF, GAU fail to reach 
agreement on stipend raises
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
POETRY EXPRESSIONS
Nicole Harris, a 30-year-old youth coordinator for ARTSPEAKS and a teacher 
at Gainesville High School, recites her poem at The Thomas Center, located at 302 NE Sixth Ave., on Sunday. The room was speechless after her poem about how being an African-American woman affected her romantic relationships.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
IT GOT THE SECOND-
HIGHEST RECOGNITION. 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF budgeted the $18.9 mil-
lion for Newell Hall renovations, it 
penned in sustainability expenses.
The university’s eco-friendly ef-
forts were realized Aug. 21 when the 
24/7 study center received a Leader-
ship in Energy and Environmental Design gold-level certification, said Dustin Stephany, UF’s sustainable building coordinator. The remodeled 
building opened in April after nearly 
two years of renovations, according 
to Alligator archives. LEED is a rating system devel-
oped by the U.S. Green Building Council that audits all UF construc-tion projects, Stephany said. The company evaluates the building process from design to construction based on metrics including energy savings, water efficiency and reduc-tion of carbon dioxide emissions. 
Gold level is LEED’s second best 
accreditation, behind platinum. Stephany said UF officials decided they wouldn’t pursue the top level.
“When we start off, we always 
strive for platinum, but we don’t make it a requirement,” he said. “It has additional costs.” 
Stephany said he estimates meet-
ing the requirements for a gold level accreditation increased the total proj-ect cost by three percent. He’s unsure how much it would’ve increased if UF had chased after platinum or if it would’ve been possible at all. 
Some of Newell’s sustainable ef-
forts that led to the accreditation in-clude wastewater going into a treat-ment facility and being reused for landscaping and not adding parking spaces.
The building has about 92 percent 
direct sight to the outdoors through windows, which improves the expe-rience for students inside the build-ing. UF also used regional materials and recycled content bought within 500 miles for more than 30 percent of the building. 
Some reasons Newell did not get 
platinum include not agreeing to use renewable energy in building opera-tions for the next two years and not doing brownfield redevelopment, which involves removing a hazard-ous substance from a construction site. 
UF could not remove the hazard-
ous substance because it was never present at the construction site, Stephany said. 
“The old school way of thinking 
is, ‘It’s a crappy building. Let’s tear it down,’ but what the project man-ager and the team did here is quite an accomplishment since they got the third oldest building on campus up to new technology standards,” Stephany said.
Michelle Stein, a UF political sci-
ence junior, said she loves the en-vironment and is content with the gold accreditation, instead of the platinum. 
“Money’s complicated,” the 
20-year-old said. “I guess it can’t al-ways be 100 percent.”
Praveen Varanasi, a UF alumnus 
who graduated with degrees in eco-nomics, political science and sustain-ability studies, said the building’s natural light and plants alongside the entrance show how UF worked to make the building more environ-mentally friendly.
“I really like the feng shui, and I 
agree with the psychology of sustain-ability,” the 21-year-old said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
Newell Hall receives gold-level sustainability certification 
HANNAH ZEHNER 
BRIM WENT MISSING 
IN JANUARY 2016.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police an-
nounced Friday that human 
remains found almost a year 
ago are of 23-year-old Hannah Zehner Brim, who was report-ed missing in 2016.
The remains were dis-
covered in a swampy area near railroad tracks approxi-mately 2 1/2 miles north-west of Orange Heights, east of Gainesville, in September 2016 and were sent to the Uni-versity of North Texas Cen-ter for Human Identification for DNA testing in January, a year after Brim’s disappear-ance, said GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias at a press briefing. 
Brim was last seen with her boyfriend, Nelson Ariel Ar-mas, Tobias said. Armas, who has been in Alachua Coun-ty Jail since February 2016 for unrelated charges, faces charges for premeditated first degree murder, grand theft auto and evidence destroying with no bond.  
In a sworn complaint filed 
in 2016, GPD officers identify Armas as the suspect in the case. Armas first told police he had fought with Brim earlier in the day before she dropped him off by the side of the road, and he walked home.
Video surveillance and 
witnesses confirm Armas left Brim’s car in a Walmart park-ing lot before it was reported missing, which was inconsis-tent with what he told police, according to the sworn com-plaint. Armas gave the car to a friend to be crushed, but a witness came forward and turned the car into GPD, ac-cording to the complaint.  
GPD found blood matching 
Brim’s in the trunk and wipe marks consistent with the car being cleaned, according to the complaint.
Tobias said the discovery 
of Brim’s remains is the latest update in the case. Scientists say their certainty of the body being Brim’s is approximately 286.8 trillion to one, Tobias said. 
“DNA results typically take 
a very long time due to the sci-ence involved,” Tobias wrote in an email.  
Brim’s parents, son, es-
tranged husband and in-laws stood beside Tobias at the briefing but declined to speak. 
Tobias said it is believed 
that Brim was five months pregnant, and Armas’ charges may be reevaluated. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
GPD identifies human remains
THEY COST $55,000 
TO PURCHASE. 
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
Ahead of Fall sporting events, the 
O’Connell Center has put new security measures in place. 
The O’Connell Center installed metal 
detectors at all gates in preparation for the first sporting event of the season, a women’s volleyball game held Friday. Lynda Reinhart, director of the O’Connell Center, said the metal detectors cost $55,000. The recently renovated O’Connell Center opened in Fall 2016 and cost $64.5 million, according to Alligator archives. 
More venues across the country have 
begun using metal detectors, which influenced the decision to install them, Reinhart said. 
“Based on industry trends, we felt it 
was important for us to be proactive in adopting these security measures rather than reactive,” Reinhart said. 
In continuation of prior security 
measures, visitors entering the center with bags will continue to have them checked before entering. 
More staff members will be involved 
with security, Reinhart said. These staff members will provide instructions, monitor the flow of traffic and give secondary screenings if necessary, Reinhart said. 
“Our aim is to prevent obviously 
dangerous items while minimizing the inconvenience to our guests,” Reinhart said. 
Michelle Sindoni, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology senior, passed through the new metal detectors before entering the volleyball game Friday. 
“It was relatively simple,” Sindoni 
said. “It was not a big difference. It was a seamless transition.” 
@camille_respess
crepess@alligator.orgO’Connell Center installs 
metal detectors
Jimena T avel / Alligator Staff
About 30 women in full makeup showed up at the Reitz Union on Sunday to audition for a princess 
role. Judges looked for attitude, stage presence and confidence. unique.”
Hannah Kruger, 24, found out 
about the auditions Saturday night and knew she had to attend. She said she immediately thought about Jack, her 20-year-old little brother.
Jack was 2 years old when he 
was diagnosed with Kawasaki dis-ease, an illness that causes inflam-mation in the blood vessels. His family spent about two weeks in the hospital until he recovered.
“Seeing the Facebook event 
took me back to that stressful situ-ation when we were all freaking out,” she said. “I kept thinking it would’ve been a lot better for ev-eryone if someone dressed up as a Disney character for him.”
Kruger, a University of Central Florida student who’s studying a 
semester at Santa Fe College, said 
she wasn’t nervous when she audi-
tioned for Snow White on Sunday. 
She has been going to improvisa-
tion classes since she was 6 years 
old, so her stage fright burned away long ago.  
“It’s a sweet program,” Kruger 
said. “I want to be a part of it.”
The selected princesses will 
go through a daylong boot camp, where they learn everything about 
the character they’re playing, from 
what nail polish she wears to what 
she likes to eat. 
“We want these kids to escape 
the difficult realities they are liv-
ing,” Brown said. “We bring this 
element of imagination; we’re here 
to be a light.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgPRINCESS,  from pg 1About 30 auditioned 
SHE SAID SHE HAD TWO 
GLASSES OF WINE.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was arrested Friday 
night after crashing into a handicap parking 
sign in the Select Specialty Hospital parking lot, Gainesville Police said. 
Sandra A. Walker, 62, did not move her gold 
2004 Ford Explorer after the crash and proceed-ed to walk into the hospital, located at 2708 SW 
Archer Road, to visit her hus-
band, who has brain and lung 
cancer. She spilled smoothies on the hospital ﬂ  oor, accord-
ing to an arrest report.
Walker told a respond-
ing police ofﬁ  cer she crashed into the sign because she was driving with her left foot and hit the gas pedal instead of the brake pedal. 
While Walker was talking, the ofﬁ  cer noticed 
she slurred her words and had bloodshot, wa-tery eyes, according to the report.
She told the ofﬁ  cer she drank two glasses 
of wine and took her prescription pain reliever Oxycodone about ﬁ  ve hours before the crash. She also said she placed a prescription pain re-liever patch on her chest about eight hours be-fore the crash, according to the report.
Walker was arrested for driving under the 
inﬂ  uence and damaging property. She was re-leased on her own recognizance Saturday after-noon.
Her blood alcohol content was .061 and .063, 
which is below the legal limit.
Walker said she was embarrassed by the 
incident but didn’t feel it was fair she was ar-rested.
“I’m really not understanding why things 
turned out the way they did that evening,” Walker said. MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
DISPLAY: 376-4482 • CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463RUN DATE
Monday
Wednesday
FridayDEADLINE
Thursday
MondayWednesdayThe Alligator is published Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
Our deadlines have changed.
Pick-up your
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Santa Fe College student was arrested for 
drunk driving Thursday night after leaving Salty 
Dog Saloon, Florida Highway Patrol said.
Miles Davis, 21, was driving on West Uni-
versity Avenue when he rear-ended a grey In-
ﬁ  niti JX east of Northwest 32nd Street at about 
11:21 p.m., according to an arrest report. 
A responding state trooper saw Davis stand-
ing outside of his blue Dodge Ram pickup truck, which had noticeable damage on the front right portion, according to the report. 
Davis told the trooper he rear-ended the 
Inﬁ  niti. The trooper noticed a strong alcoholic odor coming from Davis while they were speak-
ing, according to the report.
Davis told the trooper he left Salty Dog Sa-loon earlier the same night 
and had consumed a few beers and about three shots 
of whiskey, according to the 
report. 
Davis, who is a Santa 
Fe student according to his 
Facebook page, performed poorly on ﬁ  eld sobriety ex-ercises, according to the re-
port. 
Davis was arrested on charges of driving 
drunk and causing damage. He was transport-ed to Gainesville Police headquarters, where his blood alcohol content was measured as .166 and .174, which is twice the legal limit.
Davis was released from Alachua County 
Jail on his own recognizance Friday morning. He could not be reached for comment.SFC student arrested for DUI
Davis
Walker
MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE 
SHOWED UP . 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
On Saturday’s Fight Night between Floyd 
Mayweather Jr. and Conor McGregor, some students were faced with a dilemma: the cost. 
To bypass the program cost of about $100 
per viewer, Jonah Arterburn, an 18-year-old ﬁ  nance freshman, and his ﬂ  oormates hosted a watch party in Weaver Hall’s basement and welcomed all students to attend. More than 200 people showed up to the event, which did not require guests to pay.
Arterburn and his ﬂ  oormates planned the 
event in about four days. Guests were asked to make a donation, and Arterburn said he 
made about $200. 
Arterburn plans to use the $100 proﬁ  t 
to host future events like Ultimate Fighting 
Championship  ﬁ  ghts, “Game of Thrones” watch parties or other events on campus.
“I think every now and then, especially 
in sports, there’s certain things that go down in history,” Arterburn said. “It’s really just about making memories and hanging out 
with friends and cherish one of the greatest 
ﬁ  ghts ever.” Students host Mayweather 
vs. McGregor watch partyGPD: Woman drives drunk in hospital parking lot
HIS WIFE WAS FOUND DEAD 
WITH ANOTHER MAN 
IN THE MORNING.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A man, whose wife was found dead ear-
lier in the day, shot himself Saturday in front 
of Marion County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies.
Joseph Gonzalez, 51, shot himself in the 
parking lot of a Burger King in Ocala, locat-
ed at 2900 SE 36th Ave., at about 4 p.m. as 
ofﬁ  cers approached his car to question him about his wife’s death, said MCSO spokes-person Lauren Lettelier.
The detectives immediately provided 
medical attention to Joseph Gonzalez, and he was taken to Ocala Regional Medical Center where he later passed away from his injuries, according to a press release. 
Detectives were investigating the murder of Joseph Gonzalez’s wife, Stephanie Gon-zalez, 39, and Jeffery Durden, 44, who were found dead at about 9:38 a.m. Saturday in a car parked at a Dollar General, located at 13842 SE Highway 42, according to the press release. 
Stephanie Gonzalez and Durden both 
suffered from gunshot wounds. On Sunday morning, the medical examiner ruled their 
deaths as homicides and Joseph Gonzalez’s 
death as a suicide, according to the press release. 
Through their investigation, the detec-
tives were able to determine Stephanie Gon-zalez and Durden were in a relationship, ac-cording to the press release.
The investigation is still ongoing, accord-
ing to the press release. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgMCSO: Man shoots himself 
in front of deputiesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgThe hallways of The Carolina Inn on 
the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill are ﬁ  lled with 
photographs and paintings of people 
who made a difference in the univer-
sity’s 227-year history.  After staying in the inn for three days earlier this year, I felt like 
I had a sense of how UNC was inﬂ  uenced by 
the two centuries of faculty, staff and alumni whose likenesses lined the halls. 
As we begin the academic year, I am ﬁ  lled with a 
sense of history and gratefulness for those at UF who 
have come before us and on whose shoulders we all 
stand.  
Michael Gannon, an emeritus member of the UF his-
tory department faculty, died April 10 at the age of 89. 
In his 36 years as a UF faculty member, he taught more 
than 16,000 students, was a prodigious scholar of Span-ish and Florida history and a mentor to many. A list of his awards for scholarship, teaching and service would ﬁ  ll several columns.  
In addition to his UF doctorate, Gannon also had a 
graduate degree in theology and was for several years a Catholic priest, serving at Gainesville’s St. Augustine Church and Catholic Student Center. He inﬂ  uenced UF, 
our community and his area of scholarship in many pro-
found ways.
On Friday last week, the UF history department cel-
ebrated Gannon’s life and accomplishments at a memo-rial service at the Baughman Center. Fellow historians, alumni, UF leaders and friends remembered his life-changing teaching, pioneering schol-arship of the early history of Florida, moral 
clarity and strength of character.
“Mike functioned as the conscience of the 
university and the wider community,” said UF 
history professor Steve Noll.
Professor Gannon was once asked how he 
wanted to be remembered. He ﬁ  rst said he wanted to be remembered as a good person 
and then he corrected himself and said he wanted to be remembered as a good writer. In the history of UF, pro-
fessor Gannon will forever be known as a good person 
and a good writer.
I had the privilege of speaking at Congregation B’nai 
Israel synagogue earlier this year. I shared with the con-
gregation my two goals for UF: ﬁ  rst, that UF’s stature 
will continue to rise among the world’s great research universities; and second, that the people of UF will be even more caring, loving, encouraging and joyful.
In other words, I hope UF will be ﬁ  lled with Michael 
Gannons — good writers and good people.
I wish everyone joy in your work as we begin the 
academic year.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. A version of this 
column appeared in the Alligator’s online edition on 
April 19.Good writers and good people
“I am illed with a sense of history and gratefulness for those at UF who have come before us 
and on whose shoulders we all stand .”
Kent Fuchs
UF President 
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING ONLINE 
EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORIgnorance is bliss, or so we are told.
Over the summer, a lot of UF students had the luxury of liv-
ing in a bubble. Some students spent the past three months in 
the woods as camp counselors. A few used their time off from classes to travel abroad to where they had little-to-no access 
to the internet. Others went on mission trips, worked at time-consuming internships or just spent their days sleeping for long periods of time. Basically, a lot of Gators were fortunate enough to be gleefully unaware of a lot of the chaos happening around them over the past few months.
Upon reuniting with our friends who had essentially dropped 
off the face of the planet during Summer Break, we noticed a commonality between them. They were each shell-shocked by the things they were seeing in the news.
After living in the wilderness with hundreds of elementary-
school-aged children, our friends who served as camp counselors returned to the real world to ﬁ  nd Nazis in the streets. Our friends who spent their summer elbow-deep in work at their internships returned to freedom only to learn minorities in the U.S. were still ﬁ  ghting to be treated like real people. Needless to say, our un-informed comrades had a lot waiting for them when they came back to the real world.
While at ﬁ  rst we envied our friends who got to take a break 
from the news, we realized their short-lived intermission may have not been as great as it appeared.
Just because you aren’t seeing the news, doesn’t mean it isn’t 
happening.
As journalism junkies, we pay close attention to the news. 
Most of our classes in the College of Journalism and Communica-tions require that we follow current events as if our lives depend on it. That being said, we rarely get a break from the news, nor do most of us want one. Thus, we aren’t exactly sure what it would 
feel like to be uneducated about the world around us.
We can certainly understand the appeal of ignorance when it 
comes to the news right now. If you don’t know what’s happen-
ing, you can’t be upset about it, right? It’s a pretty fool-proof plan. However, it’s nearly impossible to avoid knowledge forever.
Even the most uninformed person sometimes ﬁ  nds them-
selves in a situation where they are faced with the news and all it’s calamitous accoutrements. The people who shield themselves from newspapers, online articles and the ﬁ  rst ten channels on 
cable will learn months into a catastrophe that the world has been 
on ﬁ  re for a while now, and they’ve done nothing to stop it. In our opinion, it’s better to know what is going on, little by little, than to ﬁ  nd out all at once in a moment of bewilderment and devastation.
What’s more is that those who don’t know what is going on in 
the world can’t do anything to help stop it. In the last presidential election, only 55 percent of voting-age citizens cast a ballot. This means 45 percent didn’t use their voice. Had these 45 percent of 
eligible voters cast their ballot and made their freedom count, 
the election results could have been entirely different. However, many people choose to be uninformed and therefore let the rest of us down.
Please, dear reader, do yourself a favor and don’t live in igno-
rance. We are lucky enough to live in a country where we have the freedom to make our voices count. But you can only make your voice heard if you know what you need to be speaking up about.Ignorance is not 
always bliss when it 
comes to newsMONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
With the beginning of another school 
year comes something that is a mystery to most and dreaded by many: fraternity and sorority re-cruitment. As of last Wednesday, 
sorority recruitment at UF has come to a close. For many women on campus, the last week has been ﬁ  lled with makeup, dresses, heels, small talk and long hours. Girls from all over the country — and world — come to UF to visit each sorority house and ﬁ  nd their homes and future sisterhoods through a process that could accurately be described as grueling and rather unpleasant.
As a Panhellenic woman myself, I am all 
too familiar with this process, having expe-rienced it as both a potential new member (PNM) and as a recruiter for my own chapter. I’m not writing this to talk about what it’s like to participate in recruitment or to persuade anyone that they should or should not rush upon coming to college. I’m writing this to discuss something I’ve noticed about this pro-
cess in the three years I’ve been a part of it.It is not what it seems, and peo-
ple both on the inside and on the 
outside of recruitment may think they know what it is like for each PNM going through it. Truthfully, 
it is a very different experience for 
each PNM, and many women go into it with the expectation that it will work out just as it had for oth-ers who went through before them. It is my genuine hope that every woman who rushed had a great experience. I hope they all feel val-ued, and I hope they all found where they be-
long and are truly happy to be there. I hope 
they got a bid, opened it Wednesday and cried because they were so happy. I hope they ran home into the arms of their new sisters and never looked back. That is, after all, the best-case scenario and what every girl wants.
However, I recognize that this is not always 
what happens. Sometimes, a woman will fall in love with a house only to ﬁ  nd out she will 
not be visiting it the next day. Sometimes, she will fall in love with several and 
ﬁ  nd none of them on her schedule. Sometimes, a woman will receive a call with the news that she has no more houses on her schedule. 
This may have been the very ﬁ  rst 
thing she ever did in college, and she is being told that she won’t be welcomed into a sisterhood. In a school where Greek life is heavily emphasized and advertised, this can be devastating.
No matter whether a girl expe-
riences the best, the worst or something in 
between, she is still just as much a human 
being as the next. She is every bit as beautiful, loved, intelligent, kind, caring and worthy as she was before taking this journey. Greek life has been a wonderful and integral part of my college experience, and I am very grateful for it. However, it is not the only way to make friends and feel accepted in college.
Recruitment can be nothing short of trau-
matizing for some women, and if anyone reading this has been negatively affected or hurt by this process, I would like to apologize from the bottom of my heart. I ﬁ  rmly believe that you can be just as happy — or happier — outside of Greek life than you would be 
inside it. 
If your path brings you to Greek life, I wish 
you all the best and hope your sisterhood is 
everything you dreamt of and more. If it takes you elsewhere, I hope you feel fulﬁ  lled and ﬁ  nd your own path doing whatever you love doing. Greek life is merely a tiny part of ev-erything UF and the world have to offer, and I hope you ﬁ  nd what you love.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
Joining a sorority is not necessary to live a happy college life at UFColumn
It’s a tale as old as time. Freshman ar-rives at UF for Preview. Freshman de-cides on a major that seems about right, appears to align with a future career or looks like it’ll rake in the cash one day. 
By the following Spring semester, freshman somehow feels even less certain about that choice and questions the factors that went into the decision in the ﬁ  rst place.
Undoubtedly, this classic story of college 
does not apply to everyone. However, more than a few of us experience some degree of apprehension when we eventually settle on a major, whether that happens during Preview or more than halfway through our undergraduate careers. 
I know I did. My short story looks like 
this. Mia arrives at UF for Preview, wanting to one day practice environmental law. Mia has no idea how to do this so she chooses an environmental management major of which, to this day, she does not remember the full name. Mia takes General Chemis-try I. Mia realizes this is not how she en-visioned her college studies and enters the Spring term with one question: Now what?If any part of that anecdote 
resonates with you, I may have some advice for you that helped me along in my journey to ﬁ  nd at least one major I care about. I am not, by any means, a career coach or guidance counselor; I’m just one college student urg-ing you to study a subject you can talk giddily about for hours. I hope it helps.
The ﬁ  rst thing I did when I hit my mid-
freshman-year crisis was go back to basics: What was it I really wanted to do when I ﬁ  rst thought about college? I thought back to when I chose that environmental-some-thing-something major; I knew it was in-spired by environmental law, but perhaps I’d attempted to study that ﬁ  eld through an avenue that wasn’t right for me. (Quick disclaimer: I don’t believe there’s a right or wrong way to go after your dreams. Maybe just a difference in what feels right for you individually.)
Anyway, I traced my steps back to where 
I’d ﬁ  rst felt that spark: when I thought about studying law. I’d been trying to ﬁ  t my interests into all of these niche categories — I’d even switched my ﬁ  rst environ-mental major to a different envi-ronmental major, to no avail — when the answer truly was the simplest. That semester, I made the ﬁ  rst permanent change to my major and declared myself a criminology student.
I can’t express the joy I felt when I took 
my ﬁ  rst criminology course, an introduction to law and the legal system, and understood that this was what I had been looking for. Thinking back to the simplest, most founda-tional things we enjoy, even making lists of what we like to read or talk to our friends about, can ultimately steer us in the right direction.
On a separate note, if you’re at a total 
loss, sometimes investigating new subject areas through single classes can also reveal your likes and dislikes. The Summer semes-ter after I declared as a criminology major, I decided to take an introductory philosophy course simply because I’d heard philosophy was interesting. I didn’t quite understand what it was, but I had an inkling I might enjoy it. Fast forward more than two years, and I’ve been studying philosophy as a sec-ond major ever since.
The moral of the story is this: If it feels 
like you’re grasping at straws to ﬁ  gure out your passions or questioning your chosen path, your journey needn’t end there. You can still ﬁ  gure out what it is that gets you pumped, the subject that you can read about for hours. College is going to ﬂ  y by, if it hasn’t felt like that already. Might as well enjoy it while you’re here, right?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column appears on 
The joys and struggles of finding a major you actually care aboutColumn
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org“No matter whether a girl experiences 
the best, the worst or something in 
between, she is still just as much a 
human being as the next.”
“If it feels like you're grasping 
at straws to igure out your 
passions or questioning your 
chosen  path, your journey 
needn't end here.”
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff 
A PARTY FOR PRINCESSES
On Sunday, children and parents attended a dress-up party at the Alachua 
County Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave. The event 
was hosted by Princess and Tiaras, an entertainment service that hosts dress-
up parties.  
Above:  Alanna Woody, 6, looks through tiaras at the dress-up party.
Above Right: Four-year-old Corey Wilkes tries on a blue hat from a pile 
of hats and tiaras. In the background, Leanna Simmons,11, opted for a 
tutu and a lavender boa. 
Right: Elizabeth Proffit, 12, looks through feather boas and scarves at 
the dress-up party. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
THEY AIMED TO SHOW 
THAT CYCLISTS 
ARE FRAGILE.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Equipped with not much more 
than courage and a helmet, about 
100 cyclists took to the streets in their underwear on Friday.
A tall, burly man with a long 
beard wore only a black lace thong and joined other participants with seat-reddened butt cheeks. A top-less woman put pasties on her nipples, which were only slightly covered by her Girl Scouts vest. As the nearly-nude participants walked into the event, a man in 
black boxer briefs stood at the en-
trance singing “booty cheeks ev-
erywhere.”
Cyclists stripped down for the 
fourth annual “Critical Ass” on 
Friday at 7 p.m. The Freewheel Project, a bike collective, host-ed the event to raise awareness 
about cyclists on the road. Riders 
started at The Freewheel Project’s ofﬁ  ce, located at 618 S. Main St., 
and biked the perimeter of cam-
pus. 
Ryan Aulton, the executive di-
rector of The Freewheel Project, 
said the event is a play on Critical 
Mass, a nationwide cycling pro-gram where hundreds of cyclists ride on the road together to show their presence. The Facebook 
event, when it was under the 
original title, was ﬂ  agged. 
Aulton said making the ride 
naked shows the fragility of the cyclists on the road, and it’s a fun way to interact with drivers. For 
the event, he wore a white wife 
beater and speedo-style under-
wear.
“It’s a hoot for the drivers, but 
at the same time it’s like a state-
ment about cycling and our legal right to use the roadway,” he said.
Though Aulton said Gainesville 
is better for cyclists than other cities, he said there isn’t enough 
driver education.
“I think we all know people 
who have been hit,” he said.
Ana Fajardo, a 24-year-old em-
ployee of The Freewheel Project, 
was the sweep, or caboose, of 
the ride, meaning she trailed the 
pack to make sure everyone was 
safe. Over her black underwear, 
Fajardo wore a bold red sign that 
read, “Hundreds of riders in pro-test. Please use caution.”
Fajardo, who has participated 
in the ride each of the four years it has run, said she wanted people 
to have fun but be safe.
“You know how it’s stupid to 
do something by yourself, but if 
you’re with a bunch of people it seems less silly?” Fajardo said. “I think that’s how it is here.”
Chris DiScenza, a 40-year-old 
UF coastal engineering graduate student, wore a baby blue ﬂ  oral silk robe, embroidered with his last name, that ended at his up-per thigh. The robe was a gift for being in his friend’s bridal party, 
he said.
DiScenza said he commutes 
on his bike everywhere and often 
gets honked at. He sees the ride as a way to show drivers that cy-clists are on the road.
“We’re fragile,” he said. “It makes them recognize that we’re here, because they might be 
shocked to see that we’re wearing 
hardly any clothes. Or a ﬂ  owery robe.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgCyclists strip down to raise awareness for bike safety
Romy Ellebogen / Alligator Staff
Ana Fajardo, an employee with The Freewheel Project, trails the pack of bike riders for “Critical A--, ” an 
annual event to raise awareness about cyclist safety. 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
THE FACEBOOK EVENT HAD 
MORE THAN 900 
PEOPLE INTERESTED.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
What started out as a joke between a few 
friends on Facebook grew into a real event.
About 40 students waited by Marston 
Science Library on Friday ready to run 
across the North Lawn “Naruto” style. Their 
arms were splayed out behind them and 
their heads bent forward like the Japanese animated TV show’s main character. As of press time, 949 people were interested in the event, which was created Aug. 11.
Recent UF graduate, Kelena Klippel, set 
up the event because she saw a lot of “Na-ruto” run-related events worldwide. 
“I think students should just look for-
ward to enjoying some outdoor time, unit-ing over some silly activity,” Klippel said. “I’m just excited to see people laughing and living in the absurdity of the event.” 
Tyler Renfroe, a 19-year-old UF dance 
junior, took the run to the extra mile and dressed up as an alligator to show school 
spirit and stand out from the crowd.  
“It’s just a fun, random thing to do on the 
first week of school and just kind of have 
fun before the new school year starts,” Ren-froe said. 
Renfroe said he was also looking forward 
to making friends at the event. 
Aaron Aguila, a 22-year-old UF wildlife 
ecology and conservation senior, was ex-
cited to run with “Naruto” fans. 
“It’s a nice way to meet new people and 
meet my fellow ‘Naruto’ fanatics,” Aguila 
said. “Everyone should become a fan of ‘Naruto.’” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgIn ‘silly’ event, students 
gathered to run like Naruto   
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Traveling to away Gator games could 
get easier with a new Airbnb-style app.  
Edoardo Moauro, a 22-year-old recent 
Georgia Institute of Technology graduate, 
co-created the app Spots to make traveling to away games feasible. Spots is a home-sharing app that lets students stay with other students in different college towns.
Moauro and three other team members 
are currently touring SEC schools to pro-mote Spots. They arrive at UF on Tuesday.  
All hosts on the app live off campus but 
relatively close to their school, Moauro said. Students can be guests or hosts, and prices start as low as $15 a night. 
Both guests and hosts on Spots must be 
current students registered with an .edu email. The Spots team also conducts back-ground checks, reviews social media and calls prospective hosts. 
The app, which has been live on the 
Apple’s app store since last year, currently has more than 5,000 users at 600 schools across the nation, Moauro said.
“You get to know the people,” Moauro 
said. “They introduce you to their friends, and you really get a sense of the city that I feel you wouldn’t get if you’re staying in a hotel.”
Gabriel Gonzalez, a 19-year-old UF ex-
ploratory freshman, said the app opens up the possibility to attend more away games — something he’s only had the opportu-nity to do when he’s had friends to stay with.
“It’s cheap, and it helps you out,” Gon-
zalez said. “So that’s always good for col-lege students.”App gives traveling college
football fans a place to stay
Rescuers pluck hundreds from 
rising floodwaters in Houston
David J. Phillip / The Associated Press
Evacuees wade down a flooded section of Interstate 610 as floodwaters 
from Tropical Storm Harvey rise on Sunday in Houston. The remnants of Hurricane Harvey sent devastating floods pouring into Houston on Sunday as rising water chased thousands of people to rooftops or higher ground.
By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a series of lab tests, UF re-
searchers helped discover a type of 
mushroom with the ability to kill deadly leukemia cells. 
Researchers from the UF College 
of Pharmacy, the UF Department of Chemistry and University of Virgin-ia collaborated on a two-year study to understand the antiviral proper-ties of the Coprinus comatus mush-room, also known as the “shaggy mane.” During the study, they un-covered the mushroom’s ability to 
detect and destroy leukemia cells.
“This mushroom was known for 
its antiviral abilities,” said Yousuf Ding, a researcher from the UF Col-
lege of Pharmacy. “So we wanted to figure out why it demonstrates antiviral activity. After some time, its use as a cancer therapeutic was found.”
The mushroom, although nei-
ther sold nor grown in Gainesville, is found all over the world. For thousands of years, many cultures have used the shaggy mane for its holistic purposes, Ding said.
The mushroom gains its cancer-
fighting ability from a special pro-tein called the Y3 protein. When interacting with a specific sugar molecule, the Y3 releases enzymes that kill cancer cells. 
Research on the Y3 protein rep-
resents the new wave of scientific inquiry into glycan-binding pro-teins, or GBPs, said Steven Bruner, a researcher from the UF Depart-ment of Chemistry who is also on the team. Bruner said GBPs are proteins that bind sugars and help communication between cells. 
“You can use them to target cer-
tain cell types, which is essentially what we did in our study,” he said. 
Bruner said the team aims to 
develop GBPs to diagnose different types of cancer. He said they hope to offer new therapeutic options to cancer patients. 
UF researchers help uncover cancer-killing mushroom
It can help certain leukemia patients 
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Contributing Writer
After two years of planning, the Nature 
Coast Biological Station in Cedar Key will re-open to the public.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences, which has conducted research in 
Cedar Key for 25 years, will debut the new 
building Sept. 23. The grand opening will be from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and will showcase the station’s research in Cedar Key, a city that thrives on fishing, said Mike Allen, the 
station’s director. The building cost about $2 
million, Allen said. 
“We can have undergraduate classes 
come out and do field work and field-based laboratories in residence,” said Charles Mar-tin, a UF research assistant professor at Ce-dar Key. In 2015, Santa Fe College and UF pur-
chased the Gulf Side Motel to use its dock to access their other lab. 
“After that, we started discussions of 
building the biological station on this motel site, so it’s really just created an opportunity to do that,” Allen said. 
The original motel was demolished and 
rebuilt as the station’s office. The strip of motel rooms will be renovated into labs, classrooms and dorms to accommodate UF students.
The new building is a three-story wood-
en-frame house that resembles the area’s beach town aesthetic, Allen said. He said lo-cals wanted a building that fit in. 
“We certainly didn’t want to build a cin-
der block, government looking building in this area, and the city of course didn’t want that, too,” Allen said.Nature Coast Biological Station to open Cedar Key office
The Associated Press
HOUSTON (AP) — Tropical 
Storm Harvey sent devastating 
floods pouring into the nation’s fourth-largest city Sunday as rising water chased thousands of people to rooftops or higher ground and overwhelmed rescu-ers who could not keep up with the constant calls for help.
Volunteers joined emergency 
teams to pull people from their homes or from the water, which was high enough in places to gush into second floors. The flooding was so widespread that authori-ties had trouble pinpointing the worst areas. They urged people to get on top of their houses to avoid becoming trapped in attics and to wave sheets or towels to draw attention to their location.
Judging from federal disaster 
declarations, the storm has so far affected about a quarter of the Texas population, or 6.8 million people in 18 counties. It was the cause of at least two deaths.
As the water rose, the Na-
tional Weather Service issued another ominous forecast: Before the storm that arrived Friday as a Category 4 hurricane is gone, some parts of Houston and its suburbs could get as much as 50 inches (1.3 meters) of rain. That would be the highest amount ever recorded in Texas.
Some areas have already re-
ceived about half that amount. Since Thursday, South Houston recorded nearly 25 inches (63 centimeters), and the suburbs of Santa Fe and Dayton got 27 inch-es (69 centimeters).
“The breadth and intensity of 
this rainfall is beyond anything 
experienced before,” the National Weather Service said in a state-
ment.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT OR 
ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
Room available in 2/2.5 Townhouse in Beacon Hill. Room has private full bathroom and balcony. Minutes from UF SHANDS and UF campus. 525.00/mo plus shared utilities. Email: yessie22@msn.com.     8-30-17-5-2
For Rent - 2 Bedroom 2 1/2 Bath Great Location for Students, close to UF/Shands and Butler Plaza.$900.00 per monthFor more information - 386-214-6777    8-30-17-3-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5Western NC Mtn ViewsNew 2bed, 2bath one-level cabinon 2.88 level acres w/fpl, deckpatio, vaulted ceilings $169,900828-286-1666       8-25-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-21-25-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-21-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
HOT SUMMER GARAGE SALE!Includes Christmas & household items, tools, Vintage & other furniture. Saturday 26August 7am-2pm; Sunday 27August 7am-12pm. 3841 SW 2nd Ave, Gville    8-25-17-1-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10
JUST IN CASE!Mace, stun guns, tasers, over 400 firearms. Free CWP permit pkg. M & C Army Surplus 626 NW 13 St. 1/2 m N of UF. 352-378-6960    9-1-17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-121For Rent
furnished
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Cabin in the woods, one room, peaceful, with wildlife and pond. 23 mi east of Gainesville. $500/mo. No smoking/drugs. Call 352-301-4707.          9-8-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. Pool, clubhouse. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-14-17-2-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
● 2008 HONDA FIT - 5-speed, 88k miles,excellent condition, $3750 / OBO● 2011 MIATA MX5 - 5-speed, only 18k 
miles, super condition $15k. Call 973-634-8821    8-25-12-3-12
2001 Cadillac Deville DTS.\500 miles on new engine, rebuilt front end, new tires., multiple CD player, spare parts. Beauty of a ride. $ 3200.     8-30-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Country Inns and Suites by Carlson of Gainesville, Florida is currently seeking New Hires!
Breakfast Attendant- This position is re-
sponsible for the setting up and closing of 
breakfast area, inventory and/or ordering of breakfast food and supplies, maintaining a clean and welcoming breakfast area, assist-ing guests and other staff to provide a posi-tive experience for all.
Assistant Head Housekeeper-  To allocate 
daily cleaning tasks and issue items such as 
keys, linen and cleaning materials to house -
keepers. 
Front Desk/ Night Auditor- It is very impor-
tant that the individual possesses a strong outgoing personality, with an ability to pay close attention to details. The successful candidate should be able to work well with others, and maintain responsibility. 
Well Qualified Applicants:●Previous experience is preferred.
●Knowledge of Opera Property Management System●Strong communication skills written and verbal are essential (Bi-lingual +)●Experience working in a multi-tasking, fast paced environment●Demonstrated 5-star customer service skills
●Ability to work all shifts, including week-ends, evenings and holiday
Please apply in person at the
hotel direct at the address below:
Country Inn & Suites
4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, FL 32608
352-375-1550
8-25-17-3-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
Professional parents looking for a sitter for a 3 month-old, select afternoons, 15 hr/wk. Must have prior experience with infants, and reliable transportation. Pay is $12/hr. Please call 352-371-3418.     8-30-17-5-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-
10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, 
pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
SERIOUS STUDENT NEEDED TO CLEAN HOUSE, 9 hrs/wk, flexible / long term. Call only between 4 - 6 p.m.. Leave message 352-378-9771.     9-1-17-3-14
Caregiver for 30-yr-old w/autism.Training provided. Car, clean record, finger-printing required. $15/hr. P/T or F/T, Mon, Tues, Wed.    352-301-4707      9-8-17-5-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-11-17-7-14
1. Who was the first Japanese play-
er selected for baseball’s All-Star 
Game?
2. In 2016, Max Kepler set a Min-
nesota Twins rookie record with sev-
en RBIs in a game. Who had held the mark?
3. Who was the first starter at quar -
terback for the Dallas Cowboys?
4. Name the only Kentucky Wildcats 
men’s basketball player to compile 
at least 1,500 points and 400 assists during his college career.
5. When was the last time before 
2017 that the Ottawa Senators 
advanced past the first round of the NHL playoffs?
6. Austria’s Marcel Hirscher tied a 
record in 2016 with his fourth giant slalom victory at Alta Badia in Italy. 
Who also holds the mark?
7. Between the NCAA and Major 
League Soccer, how many champion-
ships has coach Bruce Arena won?
Answers
1. Hideo Nomo of the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, in 1995.
2. Tony Oliva (1964), Oswaldo Arcia 
(2013) and Miguel Sano (2015).
3. Eddie LeBaron, in 1960.4. Ed Davender, with 1,637 points 
and 436 assists (1984-88).
5. It was the 2013 NHL playoffs.6. Alberto Tomba.7. Ten (five at the University of Vir -
ginia, two with D.C. United and three with the LA Galaxy).
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 28, 2017King Features Weekly Service
1.  ____ peanuts
1.  Calm, collected5.  Long ____
2.  ____ suit6.  Say
3.  Made an effort 7.  Depict
4.  More belovedLDEAST
TEDASEVERDI
RUETT
URSLIEE
DXERTEERDNREE
EEADRRANSWERS: 1A-Salted  5A-Drive  6A-Utter  7A-Render
1D-Sedate  2D-Leisure  3D-Exerted  4D-Dearer  B-Ireland8-28-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the 20th largest 
island on Earth.
BONUS
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Copytalk Business Services is a financial 
transcription company located near UF cam-pus in Gainesville and is currently offering flexible scheduling part-time transcriptionist positions.Ideal candidates should meet the following requirements:- Have excellent English grammar, spelling, and comprehension skills- Touch type 60+ wpm- Be able to work a minimum of 16 hours per week Monday through FridayAPPLY ONLINE ATWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM        9-6-17-5-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    12-6-17-40-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334-7726 and make a real connection.      8-25-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
"The Spiritual Purpose of Dreams" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., Aug. 20     
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
Everyone welcome
8-14-1-20
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-21-17-
25-15
GRE Self-Paced Program
now only $199!
Prep anytime- anywhere!
Find more info & enroll here:
PrincetonReview.com
9-1-17-5-15
ACROSS
1 Plastering strip
5 Go here and
there
9 Performs a full-
body scan on?
14 “Wonderfilled”
cookie
15 Arizona county or
its seat
16 Decoratively
patterned fabric
17 Exploit a situation
for personal
wealth
20 Decorator’s asset
21 Black & Decker
rival
22 Membership fees23 Embarrassing
shirt-pocket stain
25 Range above
tenor
27 Textured
overhead interior
feature in some
homes
34 Soup aisle
container
35 Director Kazan
36 Walk-on role37 Feels remorse
over
39 Sock away42 Works on a seam43 Identity-
concealing name
45 Yr.-end
consultants
47 “The fresh air is
delightful!”
48 Large final loan
remittance
52 iPod download53 Tofu source54 Dating from57 Give the band a
hand
60 Brings in from the
field
64 Has little
significance ...and to all intentsand purposes,
what the first
word of 17-, 27-and 48-Acrossdoes
67 German steel
town
68 “I’ve got the tab”
69 Like some art
class models
70 Places for laces71 Call for72 Shocked 
reactionDOWN
1 Artist’s digs
2 Flooring
calculation
3 Drinks with
crumpets
4 Inside racetrack
info
5 Loaf in a deli
6 For you and me
7 Wild way to run8 Hit song from
“Flashdance”
9 Extra NFL periods
10 Ski resort
transports
11 “In __ of gifts ... ”12 Otherwise13 Sinks out of sight,
as the sun
18 Therefore
19 Couture monthly
24 Beverage nut
26 Personal quirk
27 Former
“American Idol”judge Abdul
28 Roger of NBC
News
29 Volcano edge30 Anti-
discrimination org.
31 “In other 
words ... ”
32 Not experienced
in33 “Golly!”
34 Clawed crawler
38 Like foods for a
low-sodium diet
40 Body wrap
offerer
41 Comes out with
44 Not worth a __
46 Camper’s dessert
49 On a single
occasion
50 Willie of country51 Watching closely54 Golf rarities55 Beauty pageant
band
56 Roughly58 Celebrity chef
Burrell
59 Fleshy fruit61 Isla surrounder62 Advanced
degrees: Abbr.
63 Staircase unit65 State Farm’s bus.66 Exchange rings
By Gail Grabowski©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/28/1708/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, August 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators add seven walk-ons over weekend
Florida's football team picked up seven players: LB Quaylin Crum (Fr.), LS 
Christopher Howard (Fr.), DB Patrick Moorer (Fr.), RB Isaac Ricks (Fr.), TE Andres Saldivar (R-So.), WR Trey Thompson (Fr.), OL James Washington (Fr.).Rachael Kramer helped the 
Florida volleyball team beat 
two top-ﬁ  ve teams over the weekend. Read the story, pg. 15.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Florida doesn’t play Michigan 
often. In fact, the two programs 
have never played each other in a regular-season game.
But on Saturday at AT&T Sta-
dium in Arlington, Texas, No. 17 UF will face No. 11 Michigan in one of the most anticipated games of college football’s open-ing week.
Need a crash course on Flori-
da’s unfamiliar Week 1 rival? We have you covered:
Coach: Jim Harbaugh (20-6 re-cord in two seasons at Michigan).
Last meeting with Florida:
Citrus Bowl, Jan. 1, 2016. Michi-gan won, 41-7.
The Basics: Michigan lost 17 
starters from last season and is nearing the end of a fall camp in which coaches are scrambling to ﬁ  nd their replacements. 
The result? A fairly young, in-
experienced roster. 
Even so, Michigan does have 
a competent starting quarterback, and it has plenty of talent sur-rounding him on both sides of the ball. Players to Watch: Rashan Gary, sophomore 
defensive end: 
Gary played in all 13 of Michi-
gan’s games last season as a true freshman and lived up to the po-tential of his ﬁ  ve-star recruiting label out of high school.
And this year, the expectations 
are higher.
Gary has already been named 
to the Chuck Bednarik Award watch list, given annually to the nation’s best defensive player, and the Walter Camp player of the year award watch list. He was also named to the preseason All-America second-team by the As-sociated Press and Sporting News.
Gary is 6-foot-5, 287 pounds 
and, according to several Michi-gan media outlets, freakishly athletic. This season, he’ll be ex-pected to help anchor one of the nation’s top defensive lines.
Donovan Peoples-Jones, 
freshman receiver:
Peoples-Jones was the No. 
1-ranked wide receiver recruit in the nation last year. And while he is just a freshman, that doesn’t mean Michigan’s coaches will be looking to limit his playing time. Game week: Getting to know Michigan
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After a midﬁ  eld volley from 
junior Sarah Troccoli found the control of Briana Solis’ left foot just 20 yards from goal, she couldn’t help but notice the 
streak of a white jersey cutting 
across the middle of the box. 
Redshirt sophomore Parker 
Roberts took the pass and drove a ground-ball shot on her ﬁ  rst touch into the right corner of the net for the Gators' go-ahead goal.“I saw Bri running down the 
sideline, and I just saw a huge gap in the middle,” Roberts said. “I knew we were going to win 
this game. I mean, we just had 
to.”
Syracuse was picked to ﬁ  nish 
13th in the ACC in a preseason coaches poll. That didn’t seem to matter Sunday on the pitch at Donald R. Dizney Stadium as the Gators had to ﬁ  ght their way to a 2-1 victory over the Orange.
On Friday, the Gators stole a 
match from the top-ranked Stan-ford Cardinal. An 82nd-minute needle-threading pass from one junior midﬁ  elder to another resulted in a curling shot that landed squarely in the corner of 
Stanford’s net. The Gators rode 
momentum from the crowd to a huge win.
Against Syracuse, the Gators' 
magic had lost its panache. Florida had to get creative and perhaps a little lucky to ﬁ  nd the back of the net. Coach Becky Burleigh credited the resilience 
of her team to bounce back from 
an emotional game to snag the victory. “I think part of it is physical,” 
Burleigh said. “It’s a really short turnaround in our sport. But part of it is just the emotional and mental side of it, ﬁ  nding ways to ﬁ  ght human nature to kind of just take a little bit of a step back.”
In the eighth minute on a 
Gators corner kick, Syracuse de-
fender Shannon Aviza was called 
for a handball during a scrum in the 18-yard box. Florida captain Gabby Seiler buried the resulting 
 Roberts lifts Gators soccer over SyracuseIs Mayweather 
really the world's 
best ﬁ  ghter? No.
Floyd Mayweather defeated Conor Mc-
Gregor by technical knockout on Saturday.
For those that live under a rock and 
haven’t seen the ﬁ  ght or the results, I just spoiled it for you. I’m not sorry. You 
missed one hell of a match.
For those who think that Mayweather 
is now the undisputed best ﬁ  ghter in the 
world, I wouldn’t be so sure. After that battle, I would say McGregor holds that honor.
To further prove my point, I’m going 
to say that even in defeat, he was the real winner. And there are a lot of reasons why.
To start, he’s not a boxer. He’s not 
trained in the sport and chose to spend his youth learning how to become an MMA ﬁ  ghter instead. Those ﬁ  ghting styles are completely different, as one is just throw-ing punches and the other is full of grap-ples, submissions, punches and kicks.
McGregor got to show the world that he 
is a cross-platform athlete and instantly be-
came one of the biggest attractions on the 
planet by delivering one of the best boxing matches in recent history. He was already popular before, but he earned the respect of both MMA and boxing fans alike.
For McGregor to step into the ring in 
a sport he doesn’t compete in regularly is amazing to begin with.
I know he lost the ﬁ  ght (and nearly lost 
his career in the process), but after watch-ing them go at it for nearly 30 minutes, I was impressed with the Irishman. He came out swinging in the ﬁ  rst three rounds, making “Money” Mayweather look like a scared child trying to hide from a monster in his closet while landing some powerful hits.
Even as Mayweather started to take 
over, McGregor was never really out of it. He kept jabbing away, connecting on a few hits while trying to avoid getting fatigued.
Getting tired is understandable. An 
MMA championship ﬁ  ght that goes full distance is only 25 minutes (ﬁ  ve rounds, ﬁ  ve minutes each). In boxing, a full-length ﬁ  ght is 36 minutes (12 rounds, three min-utes each). McGregor wasn’t even in his el-
ement and he managed to stay in the ﬁ  ght 
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJakeJakes on a Plane / Opinion
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE  16
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE  16SEE COLUMN,  PAGE  16Alligator File Photo
UF opens its football season Saturday against Michigan. The Wolverines won, 41-7, the last time the teams met in 2016.
MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
VOLLEYBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
For the ﬁ  rst time in program his-
tory, the Florida Gators beat two top-
ﬁ  ve opponents in back-to-back nights after defeating No. 1 Texas in four sets 
Friday and No. 5 Nebraska in a ﬁ  ve-set 
thriller on Saturday.
As she praised Nebraska’s efforts 
after the game, coach Mary Wise ap-preciated the unlikelihood of the re-sult.
“Lots of things working against us,” 
Wise said. “If you had said we could win a ﬁ  ve-set match against the talent 
of Nebraska, with Rhamat (Alhassan) 
and Carli (Snyder) only getting eight kills, I’m not sure I would’ve believed you.”
While senior leaders Alhassan and 
Snyder had just a combined 16 kills against the Cornhuskers, their pres-ence was still felt on the court. Alhas-san, a three-time All-American, had 
eight blocks up front, while Snyder 
topped her career-high in digs with 27.
In addition to the contributions 
from Alhassan and Snyder, sophomore Rachael Kramer shined in her ﬁ  rst two games of the season, providing anoth-er spark in the middle for the Gators.
Kramer dominated in her oppor-
tunities on the court and combined for 31 kills with a hitting percentage slightly below 55 percent over the weekend. Despite her break-out per-formance against two top-ﬁ  ve oppo-nents, Kramer gave  the credit to the back line and redshirt junior setter Al-lie Monserez.
“Back row was passing some great 
balls and Allie was putting up great sets for me to kill,” Kramer, a Phoenix native, said. 
Many of Kramer’s teammates no-
ticed her emergence as well, as Sny-der talked about Kramer’s dedication to getting better and working hard in the gym.
“She is someone who always wants 
to learn,” Snyder, a middle blocker, said. “That’s the coolest thing, as an upperclassman, to have is someone who’s always taking feedback… She’s accepted a bigger role and is clearly ﬂ  ourishing in it.”
When asked, however, to assess the team’s performance, Snyder, Kramer and redshirt senior Shainah Joseph all gave similar answers, talk-
ing about the team’s slow start against 
Nebraska. 
“We were trying to ﬁ  nd perfection 
early in the match,” Snyder said. “But it just wasn’t clicking.”
While the performances were good 
enough to take down two of the top-ﬁ  ve teams in the nation, Florida will have to shift its focus to another set of 
schools as it prepares for the SEC-ACC 
Challenge in Puerto Rico.
The Gators (2-0) will take on un-
ranked N.C. State (0-3) and No. 11 North Carolina (0-2) on Sept. 2 and Sept. 3, respectively. Florida has played well against both schools in the past. The Gators have suffered one loss in program history to the Wolf-
pack, a 3-2 defeat in Raleigh, and one 
to the Tar Heels, an 3-0 sweep in Cha-pel Hill, with both losses coming in the 1985 season.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org 
 Sophomore Rachael Kramer ‘ﬂ  ourishing’ in larger roleGATORS IN THE NFL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
After leaving Gainesville, many 
former Gators players are continu-ing their careers at the next level. Here’s a look at how former Flor-ida players performed in Week 3 
of the preseason in this edition of 
Gators in the NFL:
Two Gators ﬁ  nd end zone:Running back Mike Gillislee 
made his New England debut Friday with a ﬁ  rst quarter touch-down against the Detroit Lions. Gillislee’s 1-yard run gave the Pa-
triots a 19-0 edge, and the former 
Florida back found the end zone again on the ensuing two-point conversion. Gillislee left UF in 2013 and bounced from Miami to Buffalo before signing a two-year, $6.4 million deal with the Patriots in April. 
Receiver Frankie Hammond 
came up with a clutch, fourth quarter touchdown catch Satur-day for the New York Jets. Trail-ing the Giants 32-25, Hammond hauled in a 17-yard pass from quarterback Christian Hacken-berg with 1:26 left in the game. Hammond started his career with the Chiefs in 2013 but signed 
with the Jets this offseason after 
spending last season on Kansas City’s practice squad. 
Kicker Caleb Sturgis continued 
his consistent play for Philadel-phia this week. He made his only ﬁ  eld goal attempt Thursday, a 30-yarder in a win against Miami. 
Eagles tight end Trey Burton 
was also productive in the win this week, catching 4 passes for 43 yards including a 22-yard re-ception at Miami’s 3-yard line to set up a touchdown run. Rookie roundup:Going up against Gillislee, Li-
ons linebacker Jarrad Davis led Detroit’s defense with eight tack-les (ﬁ  ve solo) in his team’s loss to New England. Alongside ﬁ  rst-round pick Davis on Friday was 
second-round pick Teez Tabor. 
He continued his solid defensive play against the Patriots, making two solo tackles and breaking up a pass. 
Staying in the secondary, safe-
ty Marcus Maye had 3 solo tack-les in the Jets’ 32-31 loss to the Giants on Saturday. 
Other noteworthy performanc-
es included Saints linebacker Alex Anzalone breaking up a pass and logging two solo tackles in a 13-0 win against Houston, and undrafted defensive end Bryan Cox Jr. sacking Jacksonville quarterback Chad Henne, setting the Jaguars back seven yards on 
Thursday in Carolina’s 24-23 win. 
Indianapolis cornerback and 
second-round pick Quincy Wilson  
is recovering from a knee injury and didn’t play in the Colts’ loss to the Steelers on Saturday.
DBU Class of 2016:Three defensive backs who 
left Florida in 2016 look to stave off a sophomore slump in 2017 with their respective secondaries. Tampa Bay cornerback Vernon Hargreaves broke up three passes and made two solo tackles in a Saturday loss against Cleveland. 
Also in the NFC South, the At-
lanta tandem of Keanu Neal (3 solo tackles) and Brian Poole (1 solo tackle) was effective in a Sat-urday loss to Arizona.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org  RB Gillislee, WR Hammond score in preseason Week 3
The Associated Press
New England Patriots running back Mike Gillislee (left) runs into the end zone for a 1-yard touch-
down in the ﬁ  rst half of the Patriots’ 30-28 win against the Detroit Lions on Friday in Detroit. 
T op weekend performances
Rachael Kramer, 
career-high 20 kills 
vs. Nebraska
Caroline Knop, 
22 digs vs. T exas
Carli Snyder, 
career-high 27 digs 
vs. Nebraska
Allie Monserez, 
41 assists, career-high 
20 digs vs. Nebraska16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 2017
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.net
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsauto repair shop
$20 Oil Change up to 4qts
We carry car, truck and trailer tires 
Four new tires gets free alignment
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERnearly ﬁ  ve minutes longer than he 
should’ve.
In the end, the UFC ﬁ  ghter got 
punched in the face a few too many times, and the referee had no 
choice but to call the bout.
But this begs the question, what 
would happen if the ﬁ  ght didn’t 
happen in a boxing ring? What if it was in the octagon instead?
This is where I make my case 
that Conor McGregor is the best ﬁ  ghter.
McGregor lasted 10 rounds 
against the best boxer in the world in a sport he isn’t familiar with. Now imagine what would happen if Mayweather did the same?
He wouldn’t stand a chance. 
Making the same argument that those who doubted McGregor made, Mayweather would be in a ﬁ  ght he has no idea how to win.
Just like how he won this con-
test by knockout, I believe Mc-Gregor would either do the same or win by submission. And he’d do it in nearly half the time, too.
Mayweather-McGregor lived up 
to the hype, and as someone who is still pumped over how it played out, I want to see them ﬁ  ght again.
Switch it up a bit this time. 
Make Mayweather-McGregor, Part II, a UFC ﬁ  ght in the octagon. Bill it as the rematch of the century but this time in a new platform.
Floyd Mayweather, Conor Mc-
Gregor, Dana White, make it hap-pen.
Look out for Jake Dreilinger’s 
next column to appear on Sept. 6. 
You can follow him on Twitter @DreilingerJake, and contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
According to the Detroit Free 
Press, Peoples-Jones ran a 4.41 40-
yard dash during the spring, best on the team. 
That speed can translate imme-
diately into a deep-threat option in Michigan’s passing game or possi-bly deliver a jolt to the Wolverines’ return game, where People-Jones has reportedly received reps during practice.Wilton Speight, senior quar-
terback:
Speight, an experienced passer 
who will likely start, had a sol-id season in 2016. The 6-foot-6, 243-pounder threw for 2,538 yards, 18 touchdowns and seven intercep-tions in 12 games last year. He also had a 61.6 percent completion per-centage, second-best in the Big 10.
Michigan is expecting more of 
the same from Speight this season.
Key matchup:Michigan’s defensive line vs. Florida’s offensive line.
This matchup may determine 
the game.
Florida coach Jim McElwain has 
challenged his offensive line to take a leap forward this year and become the team’s strength instead of its li-ability, and players have embraced that challenge.
They might face one of their 
most difﬁ  cult tests in Week 1.
Michigan has a talented defen-
sive line that may be the top unit on its team. Alongside Gary, the Wolverines boast senior defensive tackle Maurice Hurst, who had 11.5 tackles for loss and 4.5 sacks last season, and senior defensive end 
Chase Winovich, who had 8 tackles 
for loss and 5 sacks in 2016-17.
Keep in mind: This is the same 
defensive line that produced 2017 ﬁ  rst-round NFL draft pick Taco Charlton last season, and the same defensive line that has had a player drafted each of the past three years. The Wolverines will be looking to 
keep that tradition alive.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org 
FOOTBALL,  from pg 14penalty kick in the lower-
left corner of the Orange’s net for an early 1-0 UF lead.
After Syracuse tied the 
match on a lightly hit ball in the 24th minute, Florida looked out of sorts — mis-playing passes in Syracuse territory and allowing the 
Orange to counterattack.
“We had a lot of oppor-
tunities early that we didn’t 
put away,” Burleigh said. 
After halftime, Burleigh’s 
adjustments became appar-ent. The Gators began put-ting together sustained pos-sessions in Syracuse’s half 
of the pitch, which resulted 
in the run of play that led to Roberts’ goal.
“We just talked about 
keeping the ball, playing two-touch, trying to connect ﬁ  ve passes,” Burleigh said. “A lot of times, our offense is our best defense.”
As for UF’s defense, Syr-
acuse could not mount any serious offensive threats until about ﬁ  ve minutes re-mained in the game. Even then, it was too close for comfort for Burleigh. 
“Late in the second half 
when they had a couple of opportunities, it was more us kind of standing off with them a little too much,” Burleigh said. “Almost be-ing too passive.” 
The Gators now travel 
out west to take part in the 
Husky/Nike Invitational in 
Seattle where they’ll face the University of Washing-ton on Friday. Florida will follow that game with a match against Portland on Sunday. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg 14
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Midﬁ  elder Parker Roberts (left) scored the winning goal against Syracuse in 
Florida's 2-1 victory on Sunday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
UF tops Syracuse