We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 111 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
Sports photos of the weekend
Check out the best pictures from UF gymnasitcs,
baseball and women’s basketball, pg. 16
Festival at Depot Park draws 5,000
Check out our story and photos from the event, pg. 8
Deputy ﬁ  red after alleged on-duty Tinder date
He sent a photo of his penis to a woman, according a  report, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Following news that the Asian 
Paciﬁ  c Islander American Affairs 
director would resign in March, al-
legations have surfaced detailing potential abuses of power.
The allegations, put forward by 
two ambassadors for APIA in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs ofﬁ  ce, detail instances of Krystie 
Nguyen asking students to do her 
dishes, fold her clothes or watch her 
dog.
UF student ambassadors reached 
out to university ofﬁ  cials to express 
concern over Nguyen’s leadership four days before she resigned.
Jeshow Yang 
and Jennifer 
Zhang, the APIA 
ambassadors, said Nguyen’s 
behavior over-
stepped bound-
aries, caused 
them emotional distress and forced them to fall behind in classes. 
“Krystie’s actions have caused 
severe academic and emotional toll 
on several ambassadors, and many 
of us are really uncomfortable with the hostile and unsafe work envi-
ronment that is now in the APIA affairs room,” Zhang said.
The two and other students de-cided to speak with UF vice presi-dent for student affairs, David Par-
rott, and assistant vice president for 
student affairs, Mary Kay Carodine, 
about how Nguyen made them un-
comfortable in the ofﬁ  ce.
Nguyen announced her resigna-
tion Feb. 20, according to Alligator archives.
Yang, a 21-year-old UF political 
science and economics junior, said 
Nguyen has previously asked stu-
dents to do her dishes or fold her 
laundry.
He said he was often forced to 
work between 15 and 20 hours a week, even though ambassadors 
are only required to work eight. 
“I’ve been pulling all-nighters  Students say APIA director 
caused ‘emotional distress’
Nguyen
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
GATOR SKATER
Jordi Zapata, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, skates in the 
ﬁ  nal round of the Collegiate Skate T our at Possum Creek Skate Park in Gainesville on Saturday. Zapata placed second in the collegiate division.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Noah Barnes was excited to try 
on a new pair of black combat boots.
After wearing down his blue 
Under Armour sneakers about two miles outside of Gainesville — about 
560 miles later — the 10-year-old slipped them off, walking barefoot on asphalt.
“He said it felt great,” said his 
mother, Joanne Barnes, of Jupiter, 
Florida.Noah, his mother, father, 8-year-
old brother, Jon, 4-year-old sister, 
Angela, and their English bull terrier, Rex, walked into an Army surplus store on Southwest 13th Street. They bought boots and kept walking.
After stopping in Gainesville on Friday, Noah and his father, Robert Barnes, continued their hike across the U.S. until they reach Blaine, Washington, hopefully by Novem-ber, Mrs. Barnes said. Mr. Barnes said the trek will make Noah the youngest person to walk across the U.S.
Along the way, Noah will tell 
people about his ﬁ  ght with Type 1 diabetes, which he’s had since he was 16 months old, his mother said. Noah and his family hope to raise money for a cure. Noah’s website, noahsmarchfoundation.org, has a map to track his journey and a page to donate money. 
Currently, Noah and his dad are 
walking along Interstate 75 and will 
 Ten-year-old makes stop in GNV during cross-country hikeTHE OWNERS DECIDED 
TO SELL THEIR BUILDING.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Following the sale of their build-
ing, Dough Religion restaurant and ooZoo bar will close this week.
The custom-pizza restaurant 
and bar’s last day will be when all 
remaining inventory has run out — 
probably Tuesday or Wednesday — after being open just over one year, said manager David Scott.
Although the business, located 
across from UF campus at 1404 W. University Ave, was not go-ing through ﬁ  nancial hardship, the owners felt it wasn’t meeting ex-pectations and informed employ-ees Friday that they sold the build-ing, the 31-year-old said.
“Businesses will make their de-
cisions for what they feel is best for the future, and it’s not always easy for everybody involved,” Scott said. “The ownership group decid-ed to sell the building as a business decision, and as a result of that we are not going to continue.”
Since opening in October 2015, 
Scott said the business has re-ceived a tremendous amount of support, and he’s extremely dis-appointed they won’t be a part of Midtown’s ongoing expansion.
“We were deﬁ  nitely on an up-
ward trajectory, and in that sense it’s a bit frustrating to not see this thing through,” he said.
After hearing raving reviews 
from friends, James DiMarco ﬁ  nal-ly got the chance to try Dough Re-ligion’s pizza Sunday. It will likely be the ﬁ  rst and last time the UF aerospace engineering freshman visits the restaurant.
“I’ve heard nothing but good 
things,” DiMarco, 19, said. “It’s a 
little surprising, I guess, because  Dough Religion, ooZoo bar to 
close after a year of businessSEE APIA,  PAGE 4
SEE CLOSING,  PAGE 4
SEE NOAH,  PAGE 4He’s walking to raise money for diabetes CAMPUSWHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango Club
Join the UF Argentine Tango 
Club for free tango classes at all levels, including first-timers. Classes will take place 
Sundays in Dance Studio 
A at the Reitz Union. The 
beginner’s class will begin at 6:15 p.m. followed by an 
intermediate/advanced class 
at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, ballet, salsa shoes, or even a pair of thick socks, work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Color Your Spring Break 
presented by RUB EntertainmentThe Reitz Union Board Entertainment will be hosting Color Your Spring Break, a painting and tie-dye workshop. Attendees will have the opportunity to design their own tote bags, bandanas and towels. The event will be on the Reitz Union North Lawn from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday.
‘Love and Solidarity’: a film 
screening and Q&A with Michael HoneyJoin us at Pugh Hall on Tuesday at 7 p.m. for a public screening of “Love and Solidarity,” a film that explores the life of Reverend James Lawson, a Methodist minister who worked alongside Martin Luther King Jr. to initiate civil rights struggles in the 1960s South. His commitment to nonviolent social change in the 1960s remained his major life purpose. In recent years, he has taught nonviolent organizing techniques to working-class coalitions of black and Latino workers that refashioned the labor movement in Los Angeles. Utilizing oral history interviews with Reverend Lawson and archival film footage, acclaimed labor and civil rights historian Michael Honey and award-winning filmmaker Errol Webber examine the nonviolent social change at the heart of present-day struggles for universal human rights, peace and economic justice in the face of violence. For more information please contact the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. 
Glow-in-the-dark Zumba 
presented by RUB 
Entertainment
The Reitz Union Board Entertainment will be hosting a 
glow-in-the-dark Zumba event 
Wednesday in the Reitz Grand 
Ballroom. The event will be 
from 6:15 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
UF Fine Arts College Council 
presents the 2017 FACC Student Juried Arts ExhibitionThe Fine Arts College Council 
(FACC) at UF is pleased to 
present the 2016-2017 FACC 
Student Juried Arts Exhibition now through Thursday in the University Gallery. From 
sculpture and installation 
to ceramics, painting, 
photography and video, the exhibition features the work of graduate and undergraduate students from the College of the Arts in the UF School of Art + Art History and a special dance performance by students from the UF School of Theatre and Dance. All events are free and open to the public.
UF School of Theatre and 
Dance presents 'Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner'UF School of Theatre and Dance is proud to present "Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner" now through Thursday at the Constans Theatre. "Dance 2017: Rounding the Corner" sets the standard for presenting bold and unapologetically original contemporary dance. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for seniors and UF staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
UF National Student Speech 
Language Hearing Association The 2017 Stride Against Silence 5k run/walk benefitting the UF Health Speech and Hearing Center is just around the corner. The race will begin at 8:30 a.m. March 18. Following the race, there will be fun-filled activities for all ages. Make sure to register early to guarantee your shirt and goodie bag. There will be prizes for the most creative team, the largest team and all heroes. Register now at bit.
ly/2ktWm4A. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to mgomez@alligator.
org. To request publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your 
submissions after the above 
events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS:
In an article published Feb. 24, titled “Depleted UF counseling center asks for state funding,” the Alligator incorrectly stated 47,000 students visited the UF Counseling and Wellness Center in 2016. There were 4,700 students who visited the center.In the same article, the Alligator incorrectly reported UF student Austin Ward had eight exams over five days. He had five exams in eight days.
CLARIFICATIONS: 
In the print version of the article "Depleted UF counseling center asks for state funding," the subhead read “Appointments are backed up into Fall,” referring to individual counseling appointments being backed up at the center. Students are still able to be seen for an initial triage appointment.
In an article published Feb. 
23, titled “Students reflect on documenting Women’s March on Washington,” the 17 students were sent in collaboration of the UF Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies Research and the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 111
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  61°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Michael Smith
Alligator Contributing Writer
During James Patterson’s ﬁ  rst visit to UF 
on  Friday, the best-selling author was asked 
if his teen novels are a break from his usual crime and terror novels.
Contrarily, he responded, he wrote one 
of his most popular book series, the young adult series “Maximum Ride,” for his son. He wanted to inspire his son, now 18, to read while he was in middle school.
“It’s really important for them to read 
books they enjoy, and that will keep them reading,” he said.
Patterson, the acclaimed author of the 
“Maximum Ride” and “Alex Cross” series, took the stage in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for about an hour, ﬁ  elding questions from fellow best-selling author Michael Connelly about Patterson’s philanthropy, passion and advice for students.
Both Patterson and Connelly were not paid 
to speak, said Diane McFarlin, dean of the UF College of Journalism and Communications. The event was co-sponsored by the UF College of Education, the UF College of Journalism and Communications, GatorNights and Reitz Union Board Entertainment.
At the beginning of the talk, Connelly asked 
Patterson how he celebrates a No. 1 bestseller, 
of which Patterson has more than 100. 
Patterson said he doesn’t.
“Different things move different people,” 
Patterson said. “That doesn’t move me.”
Instead, Patterson said he takes pride 
in his philanthropy. In 2013, The Patterson 
Family Foundation began to sponsor eight 
yearly awards of $6,000 each for incoming UF 
elementary education students, according to 
Alligator archives.
“What I try to do is ﬁ  nd colleges and 
universities that do a particularly good job 
training teachers and getting them out into the 
world,” he said. “(UF) does a really good job.”
Connelly also asked if Patterson felt he had 
a duty as a writer or if his obligation is strictly 
to entertain.
Patterson said it was a little of both.
With more than 140 published books, he 
said he’s never stopped enjoying writing.
“I don’t work for a living,” he said simply. 
“I play for a living.”
During the Q&A part of the event, 
Liz Falcon, 19, walked up to one of two 
microphones and asked Patterson if anyone has called him crazy because of some of his 
darker works.
As she began to say, “I was wondering…,” 
Patterson interjected. “How much time I’ve 
spent in an asylum?” he retorted.
After Patterson laughed off the quip, he 
replied, “I worked my way through college at a (mental) hospital. I was not a patient.”
The UF political science and English 
freshman said she’s been a fan of Patterson’s 
work since sixth grade. He inspired her love 
of literature.
“I don’t think I would have kept reading 
if I hadn’t found James Patterson,” she said.  Best-selling authors talk philanthropy, passion for writing
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
From left: Best-selling author James Patterson is interviewed by fellow author 
and UF alumnus Michael Connelly in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Friday.
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
Jason Wilkotz / Alligator 
Noah Barnes, 10, carries his 8-year-old brother Jon at Active 
Streets Gainesville on Sunday. Noah stopped in Gainesville during the weekend on his yearlong march from Key West to Blaine, Washington, to promote diabetes awareness and raise money.
soon pass Lake City, Mr. Barnes 
said. At night, the family stays wher-ever they can get a room, whether in a hotel or with local family and friends.
Last year, Noah told his parents 
he wanted to do something for him-self and the other 30 million diabetic patients in the country.
“Noah didn’t want to be a diabet-
ic anymore,” Mrs. Barnes said. “He wanted to know what he could do, how he could play his part.”
Noah and his dad are walking the 
whole way with just a stroller and what can fit in it, Mrs. Barnes said. 
She drives to and from their 
home to take care of the other kids and meet up with her husband and son.
On Jan. 1, Noah started walking. The family arrived in Key West and visited the southernmost point of the U.S., where Noah climbed past the gate and dipped his toes in the water. More than 50 days later, on Friday, he reached UF Health Shands Hospital, where he is a patient.
His doctors and family walked 
with him from the UF Diabetes Insti-tute to The Swamp Restaurant. His mother ordered him chicken nuggets 
and checked his insulin levels.
Noah’s parents are calculating 
more than just the miles he has 
walked. Every day, they monitor his blood sugar and diet, Mr. Barnes said.
“On a good day, he only has six 
(insulin) shots,” he said.
Mrs. Barnes said the disease is 
manageable but expensive. 
She estimates they spend about 
$600 a month on medicine when they don’t take samples from doctors or use coupons.
Their goal is to give the UF Diabe-
tes Institute a check for $30 million, a dollar for each diabetic American.
The Institute’s assistant director, 
Carly Barnes, who is not related to Noah’s family, said she fell in love with their mission.
“They are literally walking the 
walk,” she said. “Rain or shine or funding or not, they are finding a 
way to do this.”
She said she is impressed with 
Noah’s compassion and enthusiasm.
“Noah got handed unfair cards 
in life,” she said. “He’s not being 
greedy focusing on his problem, he’s trying to help everyone.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
NOAH,  from pg.1The family is hoping to raise $30 millionI know Burrito Brothers just closed 
the other day, too.”
If community members are up-
set about the closure, the best thing they can do is continue to support 
local businesses, Scott said.
Ade Goode, a Dough Religion 
employee, was shocked when he 
found out that he would soon be 
out of a job.Although Goode has made hun-
dreds of unique, specialty pizzas for 
students and community members in the past year, he said the most popular pie is the Kumoniwannala-
ya: pizza with red sauce, shredded mozzarella, bacon, ham and red on-
ion with a hot, honey garlic drizzle.
Goode says after the restaurant 
closes, he doesn’t know what he’ll 
do.
“I was really surprised,” Goode said. “Sometimes you don’t really 
think about it until stuff like this 
happens.” 
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgCLOSING,  from pg.1The business opened across from campus in October 2015 By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A man wielding a high-powered 
rifle was shot and killed in Citrus 
County, Florida, on Sunday after fir-ing at the Sabal Trail Transmission pipeline and leading local law en-
forcement on a car chase, authorities 
said.
At about 9 a.m., deputies with 
the Marion County Sheriff’s Of-fice were dispatched to a call about a man shooting at a portion of the controversial 515-mile interstate gas pipeline, along with construction equipment, in Dunnellon, Florida, according to a press release issued by the sheriff’s office.
Deputies responded to the scene 
in the 12500 block of Highway 200, but the suspect, whose name has not been released, had fled into Citrus County via Highway 200, accord-
ing to a release issued by the Citrus 
County Sheriff’s Office.
Members of both sheriff’s offices 
and the Florida Highway Patrol lo-cated the suspect’s vehicle and gave chase until he crashed the vehicle in Floral City, Florida. The man then brandished his weapon at deputies, who opened fire and killed him, ac-
cording to the release.The incident happened about an 
hour and a half south of Gainesville.
No law enforcement personnel or 
civilians were injured by the gunfire, 
according to the release. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the incident.
The construction of the Sabal 
Trail pipeline, slated to begin opera-tions in May, has prompted dozens of protests across North Central Flor-ida, including an incident Wednes-day in which two protesters climbed inside a portion of the pipeline in Marion County and were subse-quently arrested. The chief concern 
among many critics of the pipeline is the potential environmental damage 
it may bring.
The pipeline will cut through Ala-
bama, Georgia and 12 counties in North Central Florida — including Alachua, Marion and Citrus, accord-ing to the Sabal Trail Transmission 
website. When complete, it will be 
capable of transporting at least 1 bil-lion cubic feet of natural gas per day. The pipeline construction is headed by Spectra Energy Partners, NextEra Energy Inc. and Duke Energy.
Organizers and members of the 
anti-pipeline movement were quick to condemn the suspected gunman’s 
actions, stressing the movement’s track record of peaceful protests.
Jennifer Kramel, a 46-year-old 
Gainesville-based organizer, said she 
doesn’t believe the gunman was a protester; he may have been a dis-
gruntled pipeline worker or a resi-
dent whose land had been seized to clear land for the pipeline.
“I don’t think that anyone in the 
movement in any way, shape or form will condone this type of vio-lence,” said Kramel, who has orga-nized two anti-pipeline protests in Gainesville.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org
Police: Man killed after firing at pipeline, leading car chase
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A Marion County deputy was 
fired this month after taking a 
break from his duty to go on a 
Tinder date, the Marion County 
Sheriff’s Office said.
Former Deputy David Patter-
son faced allegations of violating 
MCSO’s code of conduct, falsify-
ing time sheets and neglecting 
his duty, according to an inter-nal affairs investigation report. A woman who met Patterson on the dating app told another deputy he came over Dec. 5, and they “hooked up.”Patterson admitted to spend-
ing about two hours at the wom-an’s residence, according to the report.
The woman said he came over 
at about noon in his uniform and they talked, according to the re-port. They also kissed and Patter-son touched her breast over her clothes. She said they didn’t have sex, and everything was consen-sual.
Patterson left and sent the 
woman sexually explicit text messages which included a pic-ture of his penis and a message that read, “He’s ready to come see u,” according to the report. Patterson appeared to be 
wearing his uniform pants and boots in the photo, according to the report. 
When an investigator inter-
viewed him, Patterson confirmed his timesheet for that day was in-correct, and he spent two hours 
off-duty, according to the report. 
Patterson was hired Dec. 31, 
2010 and his annual salary was 
$46,799.29, according to the Oc-
ala Star-Banner. 
The investigation confirmed 
Patterson was guilty of the three 
charges of which he was accused, according to the report. He was later fired.Marion County deputy fired after 
leaving work to go on Tinder datejunior, said Nguyen once asked her 
to watch her dog.
She decided to speak to officials 
after Nguyen told her she should take time off from her position and 
not attend a conference. She said 
she felt it was retaliation for going against Nguyen in the past.
“Whatever personal thing that 
she had against me was affecting my ability to go to learning opportunities and my ability to work,” Zhang said.
Carodine confirmed in an email 
that she met with APIA ambassa-
dors.
“They were thoughtful and ex-
pressed their concerns regarding the current situation,” she said.
After the Alligator reported that 
Nyugen was resigning for personal 
reasons, both Zhang and Yang said they felt the whole story wasn’t be-ing told.
Nguyen wrote in an email that the 
first time she heard about a student concerned about being overworked was earlier this month. In response, 
she tried to help by going over each 
person’s position.
“It was not healthy for me to be-
lieve that our office ran like a well-oil(ed) machine, because at the end of the day, we are not machines,” she said. “We all have our limita-tions.”
Both Yang and Zhang said they 
felt Nguyen shouldn’t have another job with students again because of how she treated them.
“It was really emotionally taxing 
for all of us, and it affected us in mul-tiple different ways,” Yang said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgAPIA,  from pg.1She will resign in MarchMONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Alexandra Regueiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
The star of an upcoming WE TV 
soap opera, a cosmetic surgeon named 
“Dr. Miami” spoke to students Friday about how he ﬁ  nds compatibility be-tween Judaism and plastic surgery.
Dr. Michael Salzhauer, who goes 
by Dr. Miami on social media and television, spoke to a crowd of about 200 at UF’s Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center. 
An Orthodox Jew, he told the 
crowd plastic surgery embodies Jew-ish ideals, such as ﬁ  nding harmony between one’s body and soul and be-
ing comfortable in one’s body in order 
to live life to the fullest.
Salzhauer, known for posting vid-
eos of cosmetic surgeries live on Snap-chat, has used social media to promote and explain plastic surgery. He said he believes operations are permissible for health reasons and to aid in ﬁ  nding a spouse. 
“Getting Instagram followers isn’t 
a reason to get plastic surgery,” Sal-zhauer said. “A lot of people look at plastic surgery as the least religious practice. Vanity has nothing to do with godliness.”
Finding a spouse 
is good for mental 
health, he said, and 
if someone wants to have surgery for the purpose of becoming more attractive, Sal-
zhauer will willingly guide them through 
the process. 
Chabad Rabbi Berl Goldman said 
he invited Salzhauer because of his following on social media. He wanted to show students they can live a life balanced between religion and work, noting Salzhauer’s discussion about how he has stayed at the hospital Saturday because, if needed for a sur-gery, he wouldn’t be able to drive to the Hospital on the Sabbath, the Jew-
ish day of rest.
For Arik Maurice, a UF mechanical 
and aerospace engineering senior, see-
ing Salzhauer discuss his career suc-
cess and his background was inspira-
tional. 
“You don’t alter the creation of 
God, but if you’re bettering the people around you, that’s a good means to that end,” the 22-year-old said.  ‘Dr. Miami’ talks Judaism, 
plastic surgery at Chabad
Salzhauer
By Isaac Heller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF students are planning to 
make 100 prosthetic arms by August 
to give to children in less developed countries.
Candelaria Baez, a UF chemical 
engineering senior, and Arthi Bala-subramaniam, a UF psychology ju-nior, cofounded their nonproﬁ  t Out-reach3D to build free prosthetic arms for children in South America, the Middle East and South Asia, Baez, 23, said.
These limbs will cost about $20 
each and be made at Florida Poly-technic University’s Rapid Applica-tion Development Makerspace Lab, which has 55 3-D printers and digital object scanners, Baez said.
To fund the project, the two raised 
$880 between Saturday’s Heartwood Music Festival and Sunday’s Active Streets Gainesville but will need an additional $1,120 to create the pros-thetic arms by Aug. 1, Baez said. 
Working with another student at 
Florida Polytechnic, Baez and Balasu-bramaniam will make prosthetics that use the movements of muscles in the residual limb to open and close the hand, Balasubramaniam, 20, said.
This design is made using plastic, 
elastic cord, ﬁ  shing line and Velcro straps, she said. Because of this, it is less expensive than most prosthet-ics, which use sensors, batteries and small motors and cost thousands of 
dollars.
The two UF students plan to travel 
abroad to personally deliver some of 
the prosthetics, focusing on South America ﬁ  rst.
“Rather than just being a part of 
one medical innovation, we can actu-ally travel to these places and spark the minds of children to actually be-come engineers and teach them these principles,” Baez said. 
For Balasubramaniam, an aspiring 
pediatrician, the reward for building prosthetic arms is in knowing these children will be able to do simple ac-tions like play on a swing set or hold a bottle of water.
“I have a passion for helping to 
improve the lives of children and I saw this as a great opportunity,” she said. 
 Students start nonprofit to make prosthetics for kidsBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A bill introduced by Florida Sen. Keith Perry  on 
Tuesday proposes a new check on federal courts.
Perry’s memorial bill, SM 
1106, would suggest to U.S. Congress a new constitutional 
amendment allowing Congress 
to void U.S. Supreme Court and federal courts of appeals deci-sions with a 60-percent majority. 
Perry, who lives in Gainesville, is a Republican senator who repre-sents the newly formed District 
8, which includes Alachua County, Putnam County and parts of Marion County.
Perry said his proposal would provide an addi-
tional check on the U.S. judicial branch. The bill states that judges include their own political lean-ings in the decisions they make.
“The judicial branch of the federal government 
has taken on an increasingly activist role aimed at molding legislation according to the political beliefs of its members,” the bill reads.
Three-fourths of states must ratify Perry’s 
amendment for it to pass. 
Perry wrote in the bill that judges are not elected 
to their ofﬁ  ce, and it’s unjust for them to have ulti-mate authority.
“The United States Supreme Court currently pos-
sesses ultimate and unchecked authority on matters of the constitutionality of the United States’ laws,” according to the bill.
The bill he proposed is similar to a bill put for-
ward by Florida Rep. Julio Gonzalez. Gonzalez’s bill, HJR 121, would give the Florida legislature the 
power to declare a law active if two-thirds of Flori-
da’s House and Senate agrees, even if Florida judges voted against it.
Gonzalez’s bill would ensure the Florida courts 
wouldn’t become too political, Perry said.
“(Florida’s supreme court) operates under it’s 
own rules,” Perry said. “Once they rule, there is zero opportunity for the legislature or the governor to do anything about it.”
Kristen Bryant saw an article about the bill and 
shared it on Facebook. She called Perry’s ofﬁ  ce to complain and left a voicemail.
“I expressed my extreme disappointment that he 
would ﬁ  le such a bill,” the Gainesville resident said. 
Bryant said even her 12-year-old daughter un-
derstands the checks-and-balances system, and it doesn’t need improvement. 
UF law professor Danaya Wright called the bill 
unconstitutional.
“It would dramatically change the checks and 
balances,” she said. “They are absolutely trying to shift the power to the legislative branch.”
Wright said it was unlikely Perry’s suggestion 
could become a constitutional amendment.
“There’s no way you are going to get the states 
to ratify this idiotic thing,” she said. “I think it’s just grandstanding.”Florida Sen.  Perry proposes 
extra check on federal courts
Perry
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
A    few days ago, I went to visit a friend 
of mine on Turlington Plaza who was promoting the Women’s Student As-sociation’s Women’s Empowerment Week. She was there for a good por-
tion of the day alongside other members of the organization, passing out “Girl Boss” tempo-rary tattoos and collecting clothes to donate to Peaceful Paths, a local domestic-abuse shelter.
I watched many women walking by the table 
take tattoos and smile. Some didn’t. The latter bothered me, not only as a feminist who thinks everyone should be a feminist but as someone who has promoted causes in public spaces before. You don’t have to subscribe to everything every student organization is raising awareness about, but if it is something positive and they’re being perfectly pleasant, why is it so hard to politely take what they’re offering and go on with your day? This is not my main point, but something I thought I’d bring up regard-less.
After a while, a tour group of some sort walked by. There 
were some adults, but they were surrounded by a huge group of young kids. I’d wager most of them were around 10 years old. There were both boys and girls in the group, and nearly every single kid stormed the table to get a “Girl Boss” tattoo. I loved this, however, the most memorable part of the whole ordeal was when one kid asked, “Are you guys … feminists?”
As overjoyed as I was to hear that someone of such a 
young age was at least familiar enough with feminism to rec-ognize it, I was a little frustrated. This kid was probably not even out of elementary school and was so excited by the idea of feminism. Boys were climbing over each other to get a “Girl Boss” tattoo. They were kids, and they behaved this way because they haven’t been slammed with the realities of gender inequality yet.
I cannot tell you how many times I’ve been interrupted by a man and then chastised for interrupting a man. I cannot tell you how many times I’ve had to ﬁ  ght to make myself heard when talking to a group of men. I cannot tell you how many times I’ve had to explain to people why feminism is necessary because they “just don’t see the problem.” 
Gender inequality is not innate, dear readers. 
You are not born knowing that women are not to be treated equally to men. It is learned. While I won’t assert that these kids are completely un-aware of gender inequality, it certainly didn’t stop the boys from wanting a tattoo that said girls are 
bosses.
Feminism isn’t just up to the women. It is certainly im-
portant that women are involved. Some women may be just ﬁ  ne being treated as lesser, but I, alongside women like those tabling last week, those who marched on Washington, D.C., and those who devoted their lives to extending suffrage to women, will not stand for it.
How many more generations will have to experience 
feminism? How many more mothers will have to explain to their daughters that men make more money doing the same job, and that’s just how it is? How many more women will be accused of being too weak and emotional to do their job? How many women will be told they should be seen and not heard? For how many more years will women have to ﬁ  ght just to be seen as equal? Not “better than.” Not “above.” Not “superior to.” Just equal.
Dear readers, I don’t know. I hope zero, but I know as I 
write this that these things are happening. I also know we have an army full of ﬁ  gures large and small ready to do what-ever it takes. Women have accomplished a lot, but it’s only the beginning. I hope these kids who happened to wander through Turlington Plaza last week know the power they hold.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Instill the value of feminism to the next generationWe must continue 
to ﬁ  ght hate crimes 
Last week in Kansas, three men were shot — one killed — 
by a shooter who was tossing ethnic slurs at two of the men, who were from India (the third had jumped in to help). Last Friday, near the Tampa area, a prayer-hall in the Islamic Society of New Tampa was intentionally set on 
ﬁ  re. That’s just in the last week. 
Since January, there’s been a rise in violent and hateful crime 
toward speciﬁ  c groups of people. Acts of vandalism of mosques and Jewish cemeteries, bomb threats to Jewish community cen-ters and slurs written across various college campuses have been constantly in the news. UF is not immune, with acts happening on our own campus. 
To the acts of anti-Semitism happening around the country, 
President Donald Trump had this eloquent tidbit to say: “(It’s) 
horrible, and it’s going to stop and has to stop.” He elaborated a 
little bit on how “horrible” threats to Jewish community centers were and how “work … must be done to root out hate.” Perhaps this would not be as much of an issue, Mr. President, had you not appointed Steve Bannon, someone with strong “alt-right” ties, to be your chief strategist. But we digress.
The fact is that hate crimes toward Muslim-Americans, Jew-
ish-Americans, immigrants, people of color have increased since this election. We’ve seen it on campus — with  the uprooting last 
week of the sign outside the African American Studies depart-
ment and the Center for Jewish Studies, and the hateful words written across whiteboards inside an Anderson Hall classroom on Feb. 10.
We’ve seen people rise against them, but ultimately, nothing 
has been done about these things. Some of us are scared to walk around campus, in fear of becoming a headline tomorrow.
Except for that brief comment on anti-Semitic acts, Trump 
has been silent about the acts of violence across the country. 
This isn’t just a party situation, mind you. Back in 2001, just a 
week after the 9/11 attacks, when the whole country was freshly wounded, riled and angry, former President George W. Bush visited a mosque, urging Americans not to turn against Muslim-Americans. He defended their religion, saying “Islam is peace. These terrorists don’t represent peace, they represent evil and war.”
This was in 2001. This was after a large-scale terror attack 
on our homeland. This was spoken by a Republican president. 
Don’t try to tell us Trump is justiﬁ  ed in his silence. The wound 
that 9/11 left on our country was still fresh when Bush urged for peace. If he knew in 2001 that Islam stood for peace and that we should say no to hate and violence, then there’s no reason Trump cannot realize that in 2017. 
Now, with threats, vandalism, gunﬁ  re, violence — there’s si-
lence. We get one passing comment, addressing only one facet of the hatred brewing in our country: “It’s horrible.” 
Yes, we know it’s horrible. The Tampa area, where the mosque 
was set on ﬁ  re last Friday, is home to many UF students. Some of us may have driven past this mosque when visiting our parents. Some of us may have attended it. Yet this story is just tacked on the ever-growing list of hate crimes, dismissed as a “lone-wolf” attacker. When do we start holding these lone wolves account-able? When do we realize they may not be motivated by mental instability or weapon access but by hatred of a speciﬁ  c group of people? When are we going to stop piling on these stories and start doing something about them?
We can start here. We need to combat this hate. Fight it by 
letting people know we won’t stand for hatred. If we are loud enough, perhaps those in charge will hear. But till then, keep on ﬁ  ghting.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
This column begins with a disclaimer: 
Although I served on staff at the Alli-gator during the past year, I have nev-er claimed to be a journalist. I pulled some long nights with my fellow edi-
tors, I helped writers revise their ledes, and I wrote many a headline in my time — but I’ve never gone out and gotten the scoop or snapped the photograph. With that said, I believe my outsider-turned-insider perspec-tive might shed some light on the hard work your local journalists — and their counter-parts around the globe — do each day to get the story and get the story right.
With the White House engaging in a full-
on brawl against the press, some might for-get a few key features of all journalists: 1. They are human beings, just like you and me (though perhaps a bit more caffeinated), and 2. they serve an important role in hold-ing governments accountable. You’re just going to have to take my word for it on the ﬁ  rst claim there. In my time working at the Alligator, I met all kinds of won-derful human beings who loaded up on coffee to balance the work-load of daytime academia and nighttime journalism.
As for the latter claim, I can 
provide some supportive evidence from our very own White House press secretary, Sean Spicer. In fact, back in December, Jake Sherman of Politico asked Spicer about the treatment of the press under the Trump administration, to which Spicer replied, “I think we have a 
respect for the press when it comes to the 
government, that that is something you can’t ban an entity from. You know, con-servative, liberal, otherwise, I think that is what makes a democracy a democracy ver-sus a dictatorship.”
On Friday, however, Spicer blocked sev-
eral news outlets, including CNN, BBC and The New York Times, from attending a press brieﬁ  ng. A democracy versus a dictatorship indeed, Mr. Spicer.
In barring certain members of 
the press access to this brieﬁ  ng, Spicer blatantly and maliciously 
ignored that key feature of all 
journalists: their hugely impact-ful job in holding governments, namely our democracy, account-able. During his campaign, Presi-dent Donald Trump routinely re-fused to grant particular outlets, including The Washington Post, 
press credentials for weeks on end. This was 
already a ridiculous attack on the press and 
an action extremely unbecoming of a presi-dential candidate.
Now, Trump and his staff have gone a 
step further, waging a war with our very right to access the facts of the executive branch of our federal government. This can-not be tolerated. Journalists go to the places we can’t always visit and ask the hard-hitting questions that most need answers. Journalists grant us a road to the truth. An administration that cannot fathom the im-portance of facts — no, not the alternative kind — is ignorant, irresponsible and incom-
petent.
At the local level, I have seen the endur-
ing strength of journalists, reporters, photog-
raphers, editors and everyone in between. I have watched them struggle with the most difﬁ  cult topics and revel in the good news (and maybe a cute puppy picture or two). I have seen tears. I have felt hugs. I have gripped their hands as we watched election 
results trickle in and then pour, and I have 
watched them dedicate hours upon hours to getting the stories exactly as they happened. The bottom line is this: I have seen them work. And that is exactly what this democ-racy needs.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
law and philosophy junior. Her column ap-pears on Mondays.
Press on: An ode to the journalists I know (and even the ones I don’t)Column
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville’s color and culture 
burst into life on South Main Street 
Sunday for the fourth annual Active Streets Gainesville celebration.
About 5,000 people wandered up 
and down the breezy Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave., to en-joy live music from 14 bands and participate in activities from about 70 local organizations, said Active Streets Alliance executive director Joseph Floyd. The event was part of the weekend-long Chimera Fest, a festival which celebrates creativity and innovation.
“We’re trying to build commu-
nity in and around our streets,” he 
said.
The event, which has been held 
on the streets of West University Av-
enue in past years, moved to South Main Street this year to include a wider umbrella of Gainesville’s cul-ture, Floyd said. The new location also meant the organization didn’t have to spend at least $15,000 block-
ing off part of the road with police 
and barricades. Local vendors and sports clubs set up tents along the park’s lakefront to share their pas-sions with those who passed by.“Here, people have a space and 
reason to come together,” Floyd said.
Following the Friday and Satur-
day events like Menagerie in Motion and Heartwood Music Festival, Ac-tive Streets Gainesville topped off a weekend full of Gainesville cultural celebrations, he said.
Bianca Maesa lugged her tuba to 
the park to perform with her band, the Sonic Realm Brass Band. Maesa grew up in Gainesville and felt ex-
cited to perform in front of the com-
munity, she said.
“It’s important for us to spread 
the word about playing live music,” the 19-year-old UF music freshman said. “I’m glad we can expand local music into the community.” 
The 14 bands were selected to 
perform by Future Music Makers, a youth music education nonproﬁ  t organization, said Dean Spaniol, a director of the organization. In the face of funding for music education being cut nationwide, the nonproﬁ  t made its goal to support as much lo-cal music as they can.
“It means so much to see kids en-
joying the music and the sunshine,” Spaniol said.
While some people stopped to lis-
ten, others hopped from tent to tent to learn more about local businesses.Samantha Jones, a 35-year-old 
manager at Searchlight Yoga, led free yoga classes every hour for any-one interested.
“It’s great exposure, especially if 
people are unfamiliar with yoga,” Jones said. “This has been a fun way for people to get involved.”
Ara Tolar, a 22-year-old UF com-
munication sciences and disorders graduate student, sat on a grassy hill that overlooked the band Stereo Vudu performing in front of an audi-ence of about 75. 
“I had never been to Depot Park 
until today, but I’ll deﬁ  nitely be back,” Tolar said. “It’s been fun to hear this kind of music live.”
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org 
 Gainesville tops oﬀ   arts weekend with street festival
About 5,000 attended Active Streets Gainesville
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:  Killian Pennell, 3, plays with a Wifﬂ  e ball at the YMCA booth during 
Active Streets Gainesville at Depot Park on Sunday. Killian’s dad, Kyle 
Pennell, said it was Killian’s second time coming to Active Streets Gainesville.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
RIGHT:  With the band Passersby playing music behind them, Louis Searcy, 
27, holds Corey Souza, 33, the owner of S-Connection Aerial Arts, in the air to demonstrate acroyoga on Sunday.
ACTIVE STREETS GAINESVILLE
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Members of the musical group Bears and Lions pose with two dogs at Active Streets Gainesville.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Assessment Writers/EditorsProgress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
HPM at UF Health/Shands Hospital is seek-ing valet attendants. Must be able to drive a manual/stick shift, have a valid driver's license, and clean driving history (≤ 6pts in 3 yrs). Call (352) 594-6231 or E-Mail SWilliams@717parking.com     2-27-17-5-14
part time computer programmerwork your hours knowledge of phpjava helpful resume w/experiencetraining, and salary expectedemail coproassoc@bellsouth.net     2-28-17-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Retired machinist, movie prop maker, artifi-
cer seeks artist / sculpter to share studio in Cross Creek. No cost. I would like company & to help each other with art. Contact Swamp Wizard 352-466-0115, cromt@bellsouth.net    2-27-17-5-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestBECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
ShiningStar-Cleaning,House Cleaning,Office Cleaning (352)363-8786shiningstarcleaning2017.com     2-27-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
1. Who are the only three major-
league third basemen to have a season 
in which they hit 40-plus home runs 
and led the A.L. in runs scored? 
2. Two major-league players are tied 
for the most Gold Gloves for an out-
fielder (12). Name them.
3. Tampa Bay’s Jameis Winston tied 
a record in 2015 for most touchdown passes by a rookie in a game (five). Who else did it?
4. Name the last ACC men’s basket-
ball team before Boston College in 2015-16 to go winless in conference play for a season.
5. How many times have the Florida 
Panthers registered at least 100 points in the standings for an NHL season?
6. Who was the first African-Amer -
ican woman to win an Olympic gold medal in swimming?
7. When was the last time before 
2016 that the U.S. team swept the first session of golf’s Ryder Cup?
Answers
1. Al Rosen (1953), Alex Rodriguez 
(2005, 2007) and Josh Donaldson 
(2015).
2. Roberto Clemente and Willie 
Mays.
3. Ray Buivid (Chicago Bears, 
1937) and Matthew Stafford (Detroit 
Lions, 2009).
4. Maryland, in 1986-87.5. Once, in the 2015-16 season.6. Simone Manuel of the U.S. in 
2016.
7. It was 1975.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 27, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Seaweed wrap
resorts
5 Peaceful
9 Dozed
14 Small chess piece
15 Baseball’s
Moises
16 Flooring
specialist
17 Filled light pastry19 Like good gossip20 Expand, as a
collection
21 San __,
California
23 Comic Margaret25 Gronk’s position
on football’s
Patriots
30 Spiro ran with him
34 Baby’s bodysuit35 Comm. system
with hand
motions
36 Slowly withdraws39 Tablet downloads40 Magician’s hand
movement
44 RPM gauge
45 Unifying idea46 Pierced body part47 Moral values50 Mob witness’
request
52 Like some pizzas
and apple pies
55 Purported UFO
fliers
56 Bond portrayer
Daniel
58 “__ directed”:
medicationwarning
62 Magna __66 Medical adhesive
strip ... and a hint
to what canprecede the firstword of 17-, 25-,40- and 52-Across
68 Graceland idol
69 Military medal
earner
70 Ivy League
school
71 Hosiery thread
72 Hullabaloos73 Upright wall
timber
DOWN
1 Pet lovers’ org.2 Western chum3 Left dumbstruck4 Grab quickly5 Bottle topper
6 University
supporter, briefly
7 Lite, dietwise
8 Civilian attire9 Virgin Islands isl.
10 Lucy of
“Elementary”
11 70-Across
collegian
12 Ab neighbor13 Give it a whirl18 Mostly shaved-
head style
22 Bigheadedness
24 Double Delight
cookie
26 Hazmat suit
problem
27 Glimpses
28 Tries to bite,
puppy-style
29 “__ Rides Again”:
1939 Western
30 Shot the rapids,
say
31 Arrives after the
bell
32 Overused
expression
33 Bonkers
37 To the __ degree38 Mets’ old stadium41 Greenside golf
shot42 Plus-size
supermodel
43 Ascended48 Jewel box49 Title for 
Connery
51 Emerson works53 Recent White
House daughter
54 Walked in the
woods
57 Early whirlybird,
for short59 Coup d’__60 Bill of Rights-
defending org.
61 Lawn mower
holder
62 Animation still63 “Aladdin” prince64 Homes on
wheels: Abbr.
65 Shop __ you
drop
67 Discouraging
words
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/27/1702/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Haley Hicklen is leading the UF lacrosse team in the net as the Gators prepare to take on Jacksonville University tonight. For a full preview, go online to alligator.org/sportsUF track team places in conference meet 
The Florida men's track and ﬁ  eld team ﬁ  nished third in the SEC Indoor 
Championships, while the women's team ﬁ  nished in eighth. For a full recap 
of the meet, go online to alligator.org/sportsBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
James Davison ran toward the 
ball. He got under the ball. He pre-
pared to catch the ball. 
Then he fell, as did the ball. It was unclear if he tripped over 
himself, over the warning track or lost the ball in the sun, but the miscue allowed Florida outﬁ  elder Nelson Maldonado to get to second base and teammate Deacon Liput to get to third with one out. 
It wasn’t UF’s ﬁ  rst threat of 
the game. The Gators had already stranded four men on base in three innings. But this time, the Gators delivered. 
First baseman Christian Hicks 
started the scoring by driving a ball deep enough for Liput to score from third. And after Maldonado advanced to third on a wild pitch, 
a Nick Horvath single drove him 
home and gave Florida the lead. 
That lead was never relinquished 
in UF’s 6-2 win over Miami on Sun-
day as the No. 3 Gators (6-1) com-
pleted the sweep of the Hurricanes 
(2-4) in Gainesville to the delight of 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan. 
“Food tastes a little bit better af-ter a win like this,” he said. 
Aside from Hicks and Horvath, 
shortstop Dalton Guthrie, catcher 
JJ Schwarz and Maldonado also 
picked up RBIs, with Guthrie knock-
ing in two. 
The junior shortstop contin-
ued his dominance at the plate by 
smacking three hits and inﬂ  ating his 
average to a team-best .423 despite a 
questionable call going against him early on. 
Leading off in the bottom of the 
third, Guthrie had already started to jog to ﬁ  rst, thinking he'd walked, when he heard the strikeout grunt from the umpire. He wasn’t happy 
about it, and neither was O’Sullivan, 
who stood outside the dugout with 
his hands on his head. 
“I tried to stay calm,” Guthrie 
said, “because I knew I was gonna 
get another chance later on.”
He was right, as all three of his 
hits came later in the game. 
UF’s six runs and 10 hits were 
an awakening for its offense, which was largely dormant in the ﬁ  rst two 
games of the series. The Gators 
scored three runs combined on Fri-day and Saturday.  Bats awaken in UF’s sweep-clinching win over Miami  
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Dalton Guthrie jogs to ﬁ  rst base during Florida's win over Miami on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. In Sunday's series ﬁ  nale, Guthrie led the Gators with two RBIs. 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
MONDAY MATTERS / OPINION
To Gators fans, Flori-da’s 76-66 loss to Ken-tucky probably felt like a slap in the face. 
Saturday in Lexing-
ton, the Gators made more ﬁ  eld goals, hit 10 three-point-ers and had fewer than half as many turnovers as UK.
But the Wildcats shot 27 
free throws while the Gators shot a season-low six. 
A stat like that probably 
makes you angry. It sounds unfair. 
It probably felt like being 
slapped in the face, shoving the guy that slapped you and then getting in trouble for shoving. 
That’s deﬁ  nitely what 
it felt like for UF shooting guard KeVaughn Allen. 
Kentucky point guard Isa-
iah Briscoe smacked Allen while calling a timeout in the ﬁ  nal minutes, and Allen pushed him back. The refer-
ees immediately whistled Allen for the blatant push, not hav-ing seen Briscoe swipe at him one second earlier.
For Gators 
fans, this exem-pliﬁ  ed the un-even nature of the ofﬁ  ciating. 
It looked like deﬁ  nitive 
proof that the referees were biased. Allen got slapped, re-acted instinctively, and was going to be punished while Briscoe walked away clean.
In a game where the 
Gators were called for 22 personal fouls, the incident appeared to validate all the claims of fans who said the Gators got jobbed in Ken-tucky. 
Except then the ofﬁ  cials 
reviewed the video. And ev-eryone watching the game saw Briscoe take a slow-mo swipe at Allen. 
The referees 
issued double technical fouls, so neither team shot free throws as the fouls off-set. 
So maybe the 
game wasn’t rigged. But it’s fair to say that most of the game’s questionable calls went in favor of the Wildcats. 
Multiple Gators even men-
tioned the glaring free-throw disparity after the game.
“I’d say the difference is 
they got to the free-throw line a lot,” Allen said.
“When you have a lot 
of players in foul trouble, there’s not really much you can do,” forward Justin Leon said. 
“They were terriﬁ  c at get-
ting to the foul line 27 times,” coach Mike White said. 
One reporter on Twitter 
implied he saw White carry-ing his laptop to the referees to show replays of the calls they’d missed. 
But that probably didn’t 
happen. Because White un-derstands that you can’t ex-pect the refs to help you or even be neutral in a high-stakes game. 
Complaining, even when 
you’re justiﬁ  ed, isn’t going to make a difference. 
A referee admitting a mis-
take won’t change the ﬁ  nal score. 
White knows complain-
ing or even tracking a referee down and showing him re-plays is like talking to a wall or yelling into a vacuum.
White knows to expect 
challenges like these.
“We lost at Kentucky,” 
White said. “It’s OK. A lot of teams lose here.”  
 Ref-bashing feels good, looks bad after Kentucky loss
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Freshman Jaimie Hoover was the leadoff hitter in 
the top of the fourth inning for Florida.
And on the third pitch, Hoover sent the ball over the 
right-centerﬁ  eld wall, capturing her third home run of 
the season. But at that point, it didn't matter. 
The Gators had already scored once by the time 
Hoover hit her homer, and one run was all it took for 
No. 3 Florida to win 5-0 over Lehigh in the ﬁ  nal day of the Citrus Classic on Sunday.
The scoring began in the ﬁ  rst inning after a double 
by redshirt freshman Sophia Reynoso was followed up with an RBI single from freshman Jordan Roberts.
It was Roberts’ 10th RBI and 11th hit on the season.
After the homer, the Gators added to their lead in 
a ﬁ  fth inning that started off with a single and a sto-
len base by senior Justine McLean. Sophomore Aman-da Lorenz hammered an RBI single to bring McLean home.
The hit by Lorenz extended her reached-base streak 
to 16. She's reached base safely in every game this sea-son. Gators get ﬁ  fth 
win of weekend
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15SOFTBALL14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
As the game’s remaining sec-
onds ticked away at the O’Connell 
Center, Amanda Butler motioned 
toward referee Kelly Johnson and 
asked for a 30-second timeout.
With Sunday’s contest against 
Georgia all but over, the coach in 
her 10th season at Florida had one 
last piece of business to take care 
of: getting Ronni Williams and Tyshara Fleming off the ﬂ  oor.
Williams and Fleming, UF’s 
two graduating seniors, couldn’t 
have played much better in the ﬁ  -
nal home appearance of their col-lege careers.
The duo combined for 39 
points, 13 rebounds, three steals 
and two blocks on the way to a 
65-58 victory over the Bulldogs on Senior Day, concluding the regular season with a sweep over Georgia 
for the ﬁ  rst time since 2004.
“I could not be more proud of 
our upperclassmen,” Butler said. “They absolutely embodied the 
belief that Ronni leads us with ev-
ery single day.”
Williams topped all scorers on 
Sunday with 31 points on 10-of-17 shooting from the ﬁ  eld. The Day-
tona Beach native ﬁ  nished the reg-
ular season averaging 19.1 points 
and 7.8 rebounds per game, mark-ing one of the greatest campaigns from a Gator in program history.
Junior forward Brooke Cope-
land made contributions against Georgia as well, totaling 12 points, six rebounds and three assists, while Fleming stuffed the stat 
sheet with eight points, nine re-
bounds, two blocks and two steals.
“We knew how we needed to 
come out to play,” Williams said. “We knew we needed this win to get us rolling for our postseason, so we took that to heart.”
After an evenly played ﬁ  rst half 
that saw the Bulldogs leading 30-26 at the intermission, UF hit an offensive rhythm in the ﬁ  nal 20 minutes of action, outscoring UGA by 11 points.
Jumpers from Copeland, Wil-
liams and Fleming at the end of the third quarter propelled Florida on a 13-4 run to tie the game at 43-43.
Six minutes later, another se-
ries of baskets from the Gators’ senior duo put things out of reach.
Fleming converted on a layup attempt at the 4:39 mark of the pe-riod off an assist from Copeland to knot the score at 52-52.
Williams then knocked down 
consecutive shots at the 3:00 mark, 1:42 mark and 0:58 mark of the frame to increase Florida’s lead all the way up to eight points.
After multiple missed ﬁ  eld 
goals on the other end of the ﬂ  oor for the Bulldogs, Williams made three more free throws to seal the win before walking off the ﬂ  oor to 
a standing ovation.
“It felt great,” Williams said of 
the win. “It’s great to be a Gator.”
Next up for UF, it’ll travel to 
Greenville, South Carolina, later this week for the SEC Tourna-
ment. Florida checks in this year 
as the No. 11 seed in the bracket 
and will open play on Wednesday 
at 1:25 against the No. 14-seeded 
Arkansas Razorbacks (13-16, 2-14 
SEC).
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org  Led by Williams, UF women’s basketball beats Georgia 
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams shoots during Florida’s win over Georgia on Sunday. 
Williams led the Gators with 31 points in her last home game. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Chase Perez-Blanco served the ball on a critical 
deuce point. He was serving for match point against 
the third-ranked player nationally, Ohio State’s Hugo Di Feo.
But Di Feo held on and won the point, breaking 
Perez-Blanco and swinging the momentum of the match completely in favor of the Buckeyes.
"He gave himself a chance twice, and he blinked," 
Florida coach Bryan Shelton said. "All of a sudden, he 
backed off a little bit, and that’s all it takes. You back 
off an inch and these guys at this level will seize the 
opportunity."
The No. 10 Florida men’s tennis team lost a tough 
match on Sunday to the No. 2 Ohio State Buckeyes 
(14-1).
The Gators (7-4) started the match off strong, win-
ning the doubles point in dominant fashion.
Perez-Blanco and partner Josh Wardell led the 
Florida charge early, winning their match 6-2.
The power tandem of Alfredo Perez and Johannes 
Ingildsen, who defeated the nation’s 20th ranked doubles pair in Mikael Torpegaard and Herkko Pol-lanen, followed up their strong efforts to seal the criti-cal point for Florida.
“I think if we play like that, (it) gives us a lot of 
conﬁ  dence that we can win at every spot,” said Shel-ton. “If we can keep building on what we did today, I like our chances moving forward of being able to secure more doubles points.”
However, the Gators’ momentum slowly drained 
as singles play progressed.
Florida lost the ﬁ  rst set in four of its six singles 
matches, giving Ohio State the advantage despite the Buckeyes’ failure to win in doubles.
And quality tennis came from all over the court for 
No. 2 OSU.
On Court 1, Torpegaard, the country’s top-ranked 
college tennis player, faced off with Perez, who had just knocked off two top-ﬁ  ve opponents a week prior. Torpegaard showed power and longevity against Flor-ida’s top player, winning the match 6-4, 6-3.
High-level tennis also came from Pollanen, who 
was able to take down Perez’ doubles partner, Ingild-sen, in two sets as well, 6-1, 6-2.
Yet most crucial was the performance from Di Feo 
against Perez-Blanco.
Perez-Blanco served for the match on two occa-
sions but was broken by Di Feo both times, forcing a second-set tiebreak.
Di Feo went on to win the tiebreak, the third set 
and the match for the Buckeyes.
“I’ve got lot of respect for them,” Shelton said of 
the Buckeyes. “For playing the (indoor) schedule that 
they’ve played already, and for them to come down 
here and get a win outside, says a lot to their prepara-tion and the hard work those guys are doing.”
 @mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org UF  men's tennis team disappoints 
in outing against No. 2 Ohio State
The ﬁ  nal two runs of the game 
were scored in the seventh inning, 
one off an error from the Mountain Hawks.
Reynoso laid down an RBI bunt 
to bring home McLean, who led off the inning with her second single and stolen base of the game. But when junior Kayli Kvistad was hit by a pitch, a throwing error from Lehigh also 
allowed Reynoso to score.
Since their 
only loss to Maryland, Flori-da has outscored 
its opponents 39-1.
But Sunday’s win was also 
due, in part, to pitching from Kelly Barnhill and Delanie Gourley, who retired 15 straight batters.
Barnhill, a sophomore from 
Marietta, Georgia, tallied 11 strike-outs on the day. She allowed no hits and one walk.
And Gourley, who came on 
in relief in the ﬁ  fth inning, al-lowed one hit in the matchup 
and notched four strikeouts. She 
earned her ﬁ  rst save of the season.
The one hit allowed was a single to left-center ﬁ  eld from Le-high’s Ashley Cole in the bottom of the seventh inning.  
It was the ﬁ  rst combined one-
hitter of the season for the Gators and their sixth shutout in their last seven games.
“I thought they both did a good 
job of getting ahead in the count 
and throwing quality pitches while 
being ahead in the count,” coach Tim Walton said in a press confer-ence on Sunday.
“That was the key for not only 
being successful today but suc-cessful all weekend.”
Next, the Gators (15-1) will face 
the University of Iowa in Fullerton, California, for the Judi Garman Classic. It is the ﬁ  nal tournament before SEC play begins.
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org 
SOFTBALL,  from pg13Barnhill and Gourley combined for 15 strikeouts on Sunday
Reynoso
“It’s nice to see that we could 
break through and do some dam-
age,” Guthrie said, “but I think we’ve deﬁ  nitely still got some work 
to do.”
The pitching, meanwhile, took a 
step back.
On Friday and Saturday, the 
Gators shut out Miami in back-
to-back games for the ﬁ  rst time in 
series history, which started in the 
1940s. 
Sunday’s starter Jackson Kowar 
couldn’t match that success. 
The sophomore allowed one 
earned run, four hits and three walks against the Hurricanes. He 
also struck out seven in his 5 and 2/3 innings. 
For comparison, Friday starter 
Alex Faedo was one out away from 
tossing a complete-game shutout 
with eight strikeouts and two hits allowed. And Saturday starter Brady Singer struck out 11 in 7 and 2/3 in-
nings. 
Kowar’s effort was still more than enough to secure the win, though, 
with his only signiﬁ  cant blemish be-
ing a solo home run surrendered to 
UM’s Romy Gonzalez. 
“Obviously the two guys before 
me were dynamite,” Kowar said, 
“so I felt a little bit of pressure try-
ing to live up to that. But at the end 
of the day, as a starter, as long as 
we’re in the game, it doesn’t really matter.”
Michael Byrne was brought on 
in relief and pitched one scoreless 
inning. Austin Langworthy — who 
started in left ﬁ  eld for the Gators — relieved him, chugging from the out-
ﬁ  eld to the bullpen to switch gloves 
before jogging out to the mound. 
He surrendered another homer to 
Gonzalez in the eighth inning, but he rebounded and ﬁ  nished the game 
in the ninth. 
“Winning the series is nice,” 
Guthrie said of facing the rival Hur-
ricanes, “but sweeping them is even better.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg13Langworthy started in LF 
and pitched 2.1 innings16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2017
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHONCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry performs her beam routine during Florida’s win over Missouri on Friday in the 
O’Connell Center. In her home floor debut, McMurtry scored a perfect 10. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Outﬁ  elder Blake Reese high-ﬁ  ves Finn O’Sullivan, son of UF head coach Kevin O’Sullivan, after Florida’s win over Miami on Saturday. Finn sometimes joins players in the outﬁ  eld during practice. 
THE WEEKEND IN PHOTOS
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Delicia Washington drives into the paint during Florida’s Senior Day win over Georgia on Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
