We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 120 FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
Florida advances in NCAA tourney
The Gators beat East T ennessee State, pg. 20
Gainesville celebrates St. Patrick’s Day
Check out which bars and clubs are offering deals, pg. 8
Protesters urge UF to cut ties with Wendy’s
They waved ﬂ  ags and chanted as they walked to the Reitz 
Union, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorTWO BRICKS WILL BE 
PLACED ON CAMPUS IN 
THEIR MEMORY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
In the silent cold, about 350 UF 
students  and faculty members shiv-ered with candles cupped in their hands as a rendition of “Amazing Grace” pierced the air.
The crowd gathered at the court-
yard of the UF School of Architecture 
building Thursday afternoon to re-
member Caroline Alfano and Nicole Scherten, two UF students who died in a March 5 car accident. 
The friends were leaving the 
Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival when a car rear-ended them, propel-ling Alfano’s car into the one in front of it.
Alfano, 20, was a UF architecture 
senior, and Scherten, 23, was a UF German exchange student.
Alfano’s sorority sisters from 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, classmates, co-workers from RecSports and friends listened to stories about her warm personality and kindness.
UF President Kent Fuchs said 
he had learned about the impact 
Alfano had after her death. He said 
two bricks on campus will be dedi-cated to Alfano and Scherten, after 
one of Alfano’s friends raised $3,874 
through a GoFundMe.
“Both Caroline and Nicole have 
lived life well and true,” Fuchs said.
Chimay Anumba, the dean of the 
College of Design, Construction and 
Planning, and two professors who 
taught Alfano spoke about her aca-
demic accomplishments. The gallery 
in the college features work Alfano 
made in her studio classes.
During the eight weeks that as-
sociate professor Mark McGlothin 
taught her, he said Alfano was de-
voted to her studies.
“I found Caroline to be a passion-
ate, sincere and promising student, 
who was just beginning to forge her 
own path and ﬁ  nd her architectural 
voice,” he said.After car crash kills two students, hundreds attend vigil
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
About 350 UF students and faculty gather at the School of Architecture while Joshua Pearsaul sings 
“Amazing Grace” at the vigil held for Caroline Alfano.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Alex Rolle-Polk was running out of time.Her hair was pulled back. Sweat dripped down 
her face. Her heart pounded against her ribs. 
She had 10 minutes and 20 seconds.It was the 28-year-old’s third attempt at the Can-
didate Physical Ability Test — the last test keeping her from becoming the ﬁ  rst black female ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter for the Alachua County Fire Rescue. 
A 50-pound vest hugged her waist as she pushed 
through obstacles for the third time. At 5-foot-1, she lugged a 200-foot hose and crawled through a maze. As she dragged a 165-pound mannequin, she lost her right shoe, but she didn’t stop pushing until she crossed the ﬁ  nish line.  
With 60 seconds to spare, she made it.She slipped her missing shoe back on and smiled.  “I persevered,” she said. “I got through it, and I’m 
so glad I did.”
•   •   •
Rolle-Polk never thought she wanted to be a ﬁ  re-
ﬁ  ghter when she grew up.
As a child, she rarely saw women in ﬁ  re rescue gear — and never a woman of 
color.
“If you don’t see it or don’t hear 
about it, you don’t think about it,” 
she said.
But on Feb. 6, Rolle-Polk did 
just that.
She is just one of about 15 fe-
males out of more than 230 entry-
level employees, ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters and paramedics, said 
Karem Scott-Kotb, 30, ACFR’s diversity recruitment 
ofﬁ  cer. 
Now, Rolle-Polk said she hopes to be that inspira-
tion to girls of color.
“I just want to inspire girls to think outside of the 
box, to be something no one expects them to be,” 
she said. •   •   •
People often underestimate Rolle-Polk.
At 5 years old, she wanted to join an advanced 
swimming class, but the instructor thought she was too tiny to succeed.
“She can’t do this class,” Rolle-Polk’s mom, An-
gela, recalls the instructor telling her. “You got to be Underestimated: ACFR hires ﬁ  rst 
African-American female ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Even though she has a full 
Bright Futures scholarship, Anna 
Hall works three days a week to 
pay for college.
The UF sustainability and the 
built environment junior received 
the scholarship in Spring 2015 but 
now has to work to pay for part of 
her schooling due to rising tuition costs, she said.
But on March 9, the Florida 
Senate voted 35-1 to pass a bill that could ease Hall’s ﬁ  nancial 
burdens. Senate Bill 2 seeks to 
improve ﬁ  nancial aid for students and help them graduate on time, according to The Miami Herald. 
Hall said her scholarship cov-
ered a ﬁ  xed rate for college costs, but tuition prices increased as the scholarship amount remained the same. She started working at CCC Transportation, a Newberry trucking company to cover the $420 difference for this semester.
“It’s kind of a bummer to have 
worked so hard in high school to make a cut, see that I got 100 per-cent and then see that it only pays 
for about 60 percent of my actual 
tuition,” the 20-year-old said. 
The proposed bill, introduced 
by Republican Sen. Bill Galvano, who represents District 21, in-
cludes restoring complete fund-
ing for Bright Futures scholars, expanding the scholarship to in-clude summer terms and estab-
lishing a block-tuition rate for 
in-state and out-of-state full-time students. Proposed bill would 
restore full Bright Futures coverage
Rolle-Polk
SEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 4
SEE BRIGHT FUTURES,  PAGE 4 SEE UNDERESTIMATED,  PAGE 4
EDUCATION FEATURESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 120
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  71° LOW  43°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
Write yourself into the art mu-seum. Words on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing com-petition at the Harn Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. Winning contestants will 
be awarded prizes. See the 
guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The deadline is today.
Saakumu Dance Troupe Today
Join Ghanaian Master Musician Bernard Woma and his Saakumu Dance Troupe for a performance today at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. Woma and the Saakumu Dance Troupe’s di-verse, multifaceted and inte-grative performance will bring together art, drama, dance, poetry, costuming, sculpture, history, song and music in a highly participatory and inclu-sive performance. The perfor-mance is free and open to the public. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.GatorNights: Second Star to the 
Reitz If you like Disney magic and pixie dust, join GatorNights’ trip to Neverland today at GatorNights: Second Star to the Reitz. Check out live mu-sic by musical artist Haeley Vaughn as she performs Disney covers in the Grand Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Channel your inner “Up” as you create your own adven-
ture book and personalize the 
night with a "Moana" Name 
Painting. Fly on over to the 
Reitz Union Auditorium for the 
film "Hidden Figures," show-
ing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. 
Midnight Munchies this week 
will be nachos. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always 
free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card. Attendees must 
be current students to partici-
pate and are allowed to bring 
a maximum of one guest to the event. 
UF National Student Speech 
Language Hearing Association The 2017 Stride Against Silence 5K Run/Walk, ben-
efiting the UF Health Speech 
and Hearing Center, is just around the corner. The race 
will begin Saturday at 8:30 a.m. Following the race, there will be fun-filled activities for all ages. Make sure to register early to guarantee your shirt and goodie bag. There will be prizes for the most creative team, the largest team and all heroes. Register now at bit.ly/2ktWm4A.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
PAINT WITH PRIDE 
Samantha Johnson, a 21-year-old UF biochemistry junior, paints flowers on a T-shirt on the 
Reitz Union North Lawn on Thursday as part of the Paint Your Orgasm event. The Pride Student Union held the event to promote sexuality positivity for Pride Awareness Month.
Alfano’s roommate and friend 
Meghan Mapes, who organized the GoFundMe, told the audience how she last remembered her: without makeup, barefoot and wearing a tie-dye dress.
“That’s how I’m going to remem-
ber her,” the 21-year-old UF food science and human nutrition senior said. “Her golden soul and her spirit is still with us.”
Mapes and other sisters of Kap-
pa Kappa Gamma stood and sang “Dream A While,” a song from their sorority.
The service was recorded for her 
family, who were unable to attend, said Jen Day Shaw, the dean of stu-dents.
After the service, architecture stu-
dents put out about 90 white paper bags with lights in them. Each bag was decorated with quotes and im-ages of flowers and birds.
“Thanks for the infectious smiles, 
long conversations, and incredible passion that you brought to studio every day,” one student wrote on a bag.
Cassidy Brown said she remem-
bered Alfano for her positive atti-tude.
“Even when we were in the stu-
dio until 2 a.m., she was smiling and positive,” the UF architecture sophomore said. “She was always smiling.”
mkornfield@alligator.orgMEMORIAL,  from pg. 1The family 
could not 
attendSenate President Joe Negron’s higher 
education priorities, the Herald re-ported. 
It will also change universities’ 
performance metrics, which the Florida Legislature uses to award funding, to include shortening the 
expected graduation rate for students 
seeking bachelor’s degrees from six years to four years. 
Senators are debating changing 
criteria for Bright Futures money, ac-
cording to the Herald. 
Democrats want to change quali-
fications from merit-based to need-
based, while Republicans support the 
current system, the Herald reported. 
The Senate has about two months 
left in session, so the bill could 
change, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote  in an email. 
Hall said because the scholarship 
is merit-based, it allowed her to apply. “Students like me who don’t fit 
in a lot of categories, like minorities, 
can get it,” said Hall, who is white. 
“It’s nice that there’s a scholarship based on academic success and not on family background.”
If the bill passes, it could impact 
about 45,000 Florida students for the 2017 to 2018 school year, which would cost about $151 million, ac-cording to the Herald.
Some senators are concerned uni-
versities could lose millions if the bill passes, the Herald reported. 
Sikes said in the 2015 to 2016 
school year, 65 percent of UF under-
graduates received Bright Futures 
funding.
“Both measures (Bright Futures 
and block tuition) are expected to 
save students on out-of-pocket ex-
penses for tuition,” she said. 
@taveljimena 
jtavel@alligator.orgBRIGHT FUTURES,  from pg. 1If it passes, 45,000 Florida 
students would be affected
able to swim from one side of the pool to the 
other.” 
Without a second thought, Rolle-Polk 
jumped into the water and swam a perfect 50-meter freestyle stroke.
The instructor never underestimated her 
again.
“It’s mostly because of her size,” Angela 
said. “Nobody thinks she can do what she can do; she’s just a tough little thing.”
Angela said she knew her oldest child 
wouldn’t be happy with a desk job.
But after she graduated from Florida Agri-
cultural & Mechanical University with a bach-elor’s degree in physical therapy in 2011, Rolle-Polk ended up in a chair behind a computer screen.
After three years, she wanted to be part of 
something more memorable. Rolle-Polk said she remembered the firefighters she saw every day. They were a source of hope for people, and Rolle-Polk wanted to be that hope for someone.
So she applied for Tallahassee Community 
College’s Fire Academy in May 2016 and was accepted. 
In July, she started attending the fire 
school’s night classes 25 hours a week, all while working full-time.
At the school, Rolle-Polk charged into simu-
lated burning buildings, learned how to use air packs and learned how to handle car fires.
The class started with 25 students and only 
one other woman, Rolle-Polk said. The other woman dropped out early due to an injury, and Rolle-Polk found herself surrounded by men. 
She said the men, even some of the instruc-
tors, assumed she was weaker and slower than them, but when she performed consistently during workouts, always in the middle of the pack, they were surprised she kept up.
“They were like, ‘Woah, she can actually 
do what I can and do it almost as fast as I can,’ and I think that changed a lot of their minds of 
what females can actually do,” she said. By the time she graduated fire school in De-
cember, only 21 students remained; six were 
African-American, and Rolle-Polk was the only female and one of the top-performing students. 
“That was very empowering,” she said.  
•   •   •
After six months of rigorous physical and 
mental training, Rolle-Polk stood among 18 male firefighters in uniform on Thursday.
Dressed in all black, with only the ACFR 
patch baring red, navy and white, Rolle-Polk stood proud as her father pinned on her new badge. 
Rolle-Polk and the new firefighter hires held 
their right hands up and said their oath of ser-vice, ready to work.
ACFR Deputy Chief Harold Theus said he 
knew he wanted Rolle-Polk to come to the fire rescue just two minutes into his interview with her.“She seemed like an individual who not 
only had passion but had poise,” he said. 
Theus said he hopes Rolle-Polk will moti-
vate more women to apply.
“She’ll be an example for the future,” he 
said. “I’m hoping that we continue down this path.”  
With her first steps completed, she’ll start 
at Station 25 in Hawthorne on Wednesday and begin her emergency medical training May 8. 
She said the ceremony symbolized the start 
of her journey toward her dream of becoming the head rescue chief in Alachua County and to inspire other women to join the department.
But for now, she’ll help people and fear-
lessly run into burning buildings.
“I’ll work till my body is not able to do it,” 
she said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUNDERESTIMATED,  from pg. 1She was one of two women in her beginning class
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Alex Rolle-Polk stands with her pin during a ceremony on Thursday afternoon. Rolle-Polk is the Alachua County Fire Rescue’s first African-American female firefighter.
FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR  5
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President Su-
san Webster discussed Thursday 
a proposed partnership between UF and Uber, which would offer discounts to students using the 
ride-sharing app.
The plan, which could possibly 
go into effect next week, was one 
of several items mentioned during 
a UF Board of Trustees meeting 
inside Emerson Alumni Hall.
Notably, committee members 
approved a $33 million building, and a lawyer spoke about a law-suit he’s ﬁ  ling against UF.
David Guzick, the president of 
UF Health, spoke about building a 
new medical facility in Springhill, 
Florida, to provide health servic-es. The current UF Health Spring-hill building is at capacity, so the new one, which will cost about $33 million, will allow for contin-ued services. The Committee on Finance and Facilities unanimous-ly approved the building, and the 
board will vote on it today. 
 “We again wanted to con-
solidate these practices into one 
place,” Guzick said. 
At the start of a special session 
from the Committee on Gover-nance, Gainesville lawyer Huntley Johnson spoke to the board about his ﬁ  led lawsuit, which accuses 
UF of violating public records 
laws. He accused Jamie Keith, the vice president of the General Counsel, of being unﬁ  t to manage the ofﬁ  ce, which deals with public records. 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said after asking and being denied payment for his legal fees, John-
son put in 42 public records re-
quests targeting Keith. Sikes said they were working on fulﬁ  lling his request as he ﬁ  led the lawsuit.
“It doesn’t just always happen 
in 24 hours,” she said of fulﬁ  lling public records requests.
The ﬁ  nance and facilities com-
mittee also approved a lease for a 
parcel of land by Newman’s lake, 
located east of Gainesville, for the UF Rowing club and Department of Recreational Sports to use.
Also discussed was the con-
struction of a proposed park-ing garage across from the Reitz Union Welcome Center, which is planned for late 2018, according 
to Alligator archives.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgProposed UF, Uber 
partnership could oﬀ  er late-night discountsBy Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Demonstrators held bright-yellow 
ﬂ  ags against a blue sky Thursday as 
about 70 people protested Wendy’s refusal to join the Fair Food Program.
The group walked from UF’s Nor-
man Field to the Reitz Union in the Boot the Braids march, which urged consumers to boycott Wendy’s and prodded UF to remove the fast-food chain from campus.
Lucero Ruballos, the UF Chispas 
secretary who helped organize the march, said Wendy’s has ignored farmworkers’ rights and failed to join 
the coalition between farmers and 
companies. 
As activists gathered on Norman 
Field at about 12:30 p.m., they held tomato-shaped protest signs reading phrases like “Respect,” “Dignity” and “Libertad.” Ruballos said the group is concerned with the farms Wendy’s gets their tomatoes from. 
Members of UF Chispas, a student 
organization advocating for the local migrant community, and the non-proﬁ  t Coalition of Immokalee Work-ers marched in protest, one of many anti-Wendy’s demonstrations that have occurred at UF in recent years.
The Fair Food Program, of which 
Wendy’s is not a part, is an agree-ment between farmers, workers and 
restaurants to ensure fair, humane 
wages and working conditions, Rub-allos said. 
“We want to get Wendy’s off of 
UF’s contract,” the 20-year-old UF criminology and law sophomore said. “And we want to show Wendy’s that students are getting involved nation-wide.”
The Gainesville event began the 
national Return to Human Rights Tour, which will include protests in 14 cities — their second-to-last stop being Wendy’s Ohio headquarters March 24, Ruballos said. 
As protestors reached Turlington 
Plaza, some bystanders cheered in support, while others lifted their fast-food to-go bags in the air, seemingly to make fun of the group.
Unfazed, the group chanted, “The 
people, united, will never be defeat-ed,” continuing down Stadium Road before arriving at the Reitz Union. 
Cecilia Luna, a UF public relations 
sophomore who stood with the pro-testors, said she wanted to hold the fast-food franchise and UF account-able.
“UF strives to be a top 10 uni-
versity but continues to proﬁ  t from Wendy’s,” the 21-year-old said. “You don’t have to be a farmworker to care 
about these issues.”
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org
Wendy’s protest spans UF campus
A COUPLE TRIED TO STEAL 
THE CONSTRUCTION 
VEHICLE ON THURSDAY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested an 
Ocala couple Thursday who traveled 
to Gainesville to steal a Bobcat con-struction vehicle.
Donald Earnest Tanney, 39, was 
standing on the construction loader and leaning into the cage of the ma-chine at a construction site at 3989 
SW 37th Blvd., near Campus Club 
Apartments, at 5:33 a.m., according to an arrest report. When Tanney saw a GPD ofﬁ  cer approaching, he jumped off it and ran to a parked white SUV, according to a report. 
“It looked just like mine,” Tanney 
told the ofﬁ  cer as he tried to get in the front passenger seat of the car, 
according to the report. 
His girlfriend, Chelsey Olivia 
Jackson, 23, was sitting in the driv-
er’s seat, and Christopher Ladon Pope, 24, was sitting in the back seat, according to the report. The car had a trailer large enough to ﬁ  t the ma-chine in it, police said.
Ofﬁ  cers found syringes and a 
metal spoon with residue of amphet-amines in the center console of the car, according to the report. Police said Jackson had 1.7 grams of am-phetamines in her left shoe and a key to the machine.
The value of the machine is about 
$40,000, according to the report.
After her arrest, Jackson said Tan-
ney was going to sell the machine for $4,000, according to the report. She 
said Tanney planned to repay Pope 
for helping him steal the machine with heroin, gas and money.
Pope was released on scene, said 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias, a GPD spokesper-son. After interviewing Jackson and 
Tanney, detectives determined Pope 
was involved and are looking for him to arrest him on a charge of grand theft, Tobias said.
Police arrested Tanney and Jack-
son on charges of grand theft and drug possession. Authorities took them to the Alachua County Jail where they remain, as of press time, 
with no bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eldGPD: $40,000 Bobcat almost stolen
T anney
 Jackson
WHAT THE BOARD DISCUSSED 
• Uber partnerships with UF for discounted rates
• Undergraduate research fairs for Fall
• Building renovations, including Norman Hall and the Music Building
• UAA’s capital plan to build a new training facility and update the 
baseball and softball stadiums
• An upcoming parking garage
• UF’s class of 2021 and admissions dataThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
There’s always an audience; give them something
Hey there, Gators. Hey there, Baby Gators. 
I’m kidding, of course; the Baby Gators can’t read. Was that commentary on our shoddy American education system and its effect on our freshmen, or was 
that an obvious statement because the toddlers of the Baby Gator nursery most likely can’t read?
Art is all about interpretation.So, how was your spring break? Or, if you 
were here at UF, how was your Spring Break?  Y’all should really take a peek at the Alligator Stylebook, which deals with a bunch of these grammatical, syntactical quirks. Did you know syntactical was a word? I didn’t know until I typed it out.
So, hey there. I write columns about comedy. I’m going 
to keep doing that. Let’s talk about comedy. Have you ever heard of Andy Kaufman? Let’s talk about Andy Kaufman. He never considered himself a comedian, and most of his later work never involved traditional jokes. Rather, he spent his career pranking his contemporary audience and maintaining a number of facades, personas and false be-liefs. I won’t go into detail; watch his material yourself if you’d like. Calling him a prankster would be undermining his genius, but in essence that’s who he was: He spent his career lying to and tricking his audience.
Comedy is a series of puzzles. To solve a puzzle, you use 
logic to connect bits of information together to create a solu-tion. A good joke provides all the information, and it’s up to the audience to ﬁ  nd the joke’s central irony. Kaufman, however, never revealed to his contemporary audience a key bit of information: He never revealed his antics were hoaxes. His anti-woman wrestling career, his rude and ob-noxious lounge lizard persona and the purposeful hiccups in his TV show were all portrayed as very real by Kaufman and his cohorts. Again, look all of this up. It’ll be good for you.
Kaufman’s life was so full of hoaxes and staged acci-dents that when he died in 1984, many folks thought his death was a lie. And while his close friend Bob Zmuda has essentially conﬁ  rmed his death, a handful of people refuse to fall for an-other one of Kaufman’s pranks.
If you think about it, Kaufman is one of the 
only comedians to have an exclusively post-humous audience. The folks for whom he per-formed weren’t the audience members of “Satur-day Night Live” or “Taxi.” He performed for us. Let me explain.
Comedy is a puzzle, right? And the major piece missing 
for his audience was the fact that it was a joke. If you were to take Kaufman’s performances seriously, you’d most like-ly be disgusted or made otherwise uncomfortable. But now that we’ve looked back at Kaufman, conducted interviews with friends and family and linked together his antics, we can look at Kaufman as one of the grandest comedians of all time. His jokes spanned years, and the payoff now is incredibly satisfying for us as audience members. What’s more, his comedy was always self-deprecating. Not self-deprecating in the sense that he beat himself up, but in the sense that he put himself in scenarios in which his audience beat him up — literally, in some cases. If you’re interested in how artists handle the public eye or media attention, look to Andy Kaufman.
So, what’s the opinion here? I have a knack for talking 
about comedy and then shoehorning in a moral or two. So, I’ll do that again here. Firstly, comedy is an art. Ob-viously. Secondly, consider for whom you’re performing, Baby Gators. You perform when you meet people, when you speak up in class and when you interview at showcases and places of employment. Your audience doesn’t necessar-ily know what they want until you give it to them. Experi-ment. Subvert their expectations. Be funny.
Michael Smith is a mechanically engineered junior. His 
column is merely a mirage. It also appears on Tuesdays.Ah, St. Patrick’s Day. The day when most Americans 
will proudly thump their chests, claim distant Irish heritage 
(yes, we get it Karen, your great-great-great-great grand-
mother was Irish) and raise a pint to the air, singing what 
they think sounds like an Irish folk song. There may be shamrocks and green glitter involved. If you’re trapped in 
lecture and counting down the hours to your own St. Patty’s 
Day celebration, take a moment to prepare your toasts for tonight and go over this week’s…
Darts & Laurels
Roughly a year ago, the Natural Environment Research 
Council in Britain held an online poll to name their brand-
new $287 million dollar polar research ship. And of course, 
as the internet community is prone to doing, serious names 
were ignored, and the name “Boaty McBoatface” surged to popularity. The British government decided to go ahead and just name the boat after a respectable scientist (David At-
tenborough) instead. But the people cried out in protest and 
thus the remotely operated submarine that the boat would carry was dubbed Boaty McBoatface. Boaty McBoatface is set to depart today from Chile to the Southern Ocean, where it will explore the icy waters of the Antarctic. Though it’s 
not a boat and it doesn’t have a face, we’re bestowing a 
laurel upon Boaty McBoatface, for reminding us about the excitement of oceanic research, scientiﬁ  c innovation, 
and giving us a little chuckle as we round up the week.  
Now about something that doesn’t appreciate scien-
tiﬁ  c research and innovation — or enrichment in the arts and humanities. That’s right, President Donald Trump’s proposed budget. Now there is a lot going on in a budget. We’re not going to sit back and analyze each component 
of the proposed budget right now (ask us again next week 
probably). But we will say this is the ﬁ  rst budget proposal in recent history that contains a total, 100-percent cut to public funding for arts programs. Since arts programs only 
take up .02 percent (not 2 percent, not even 0.2 percent 
— literally two hundredths of a single percent) of federal funding, eliminating them is not going to ﬁ  x the national debt. There are 19 other government agencies that could potentially face big cuts, including the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, the Department of Education, the Depart-
ment of the Interior and NASA. The fact that a lot of those are programs centered around learning, knowledge, innova-tion, the environment and future generations is concerning 
to us. We’re throwing a dart through those particular cuts  
in the budget — for now. Keep in mind, the budget still 
needs to be approved and it’s already inciting outrage from Democrats and Republicans alike. So we’re throwing the members of Congress, who are ﬁ  ghting for the interests 
of their constituents and not their party, a laurel.
We’re not going to ﬁ  nagle our way into a fourth dart. In-
stead we just want to remind everyone that whatever your 
St. Patrick’s Day plans are, please be responsible. While 
it’s okay to have a little fun and blow off that mid-semes-
ter steam (just remember where you are and how you got there), you should not put your life or the lives of others in danger. Recruit a sober friend to drive. Take the bus. Call an Uber. Remember that and take this laurel to your weekend 
plans — be they celebrating your distant Irish heritage or 
hunkering down in the library for the post-break midterms.  
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Oftentimes, where I work is just as 
important as what I am working on. I could be writing a paper on an interest of mine, but if I am in the back seat of a car racing down In-
terstate 95, then it doesn’t matter how much I enjoy the subject; I won’t be writing my best material. We are creatures easily inﬂ  u-enced by our environment, more so than we like to think. 
For instance, seasonal affective disorder 
(with the appropriate acronym SAD) is most 
common in the cold months of winter, large-
ly due to the lack of natural sunlight and overall stress of the temperature. There are 
other possible explanations for being down 
in the December dumps, but the main idea is that the physical environment can (and 
does) play a signiﬁ  cant role in our mood. Weather might have the most obvious con-
nection, but it is not the only environmental factor inﬂ  uencing our psyche. 
Originally from dreary England, Alex 
Turner, musician and songwriter, moved 
to Brooklyn, New York, several years ago, and in an interview with The New York Times, discussed the surpris-
ing effects it had on his writing.
“Someone put it to me that 
New York is a good place to write, because of the grid,” Turner said. “It’s pretty organized, you kind 
of know where you are on the map, more so than some other 
places. That’s an interesting idea, 
I thought — you know where you 
are, and that centers you.”
Looking at a transit map of New York 
City is an oddly satisfying experience. The land masses might be oddly shaped, but the 
roads align perfectly, laying over the land 
like a symmetrical blanket. It’s as if someone gently laid a huge piece of graph paper over 
the city, and the roads and neighborhoods were carefully planned to strictly adhere to 
the lines, creating only perfect right angles at every intersection. 
The result of living in such a place is that 
there is no confusion in ﬁ  guring out where you are. Your physical location is mostly numbers, just a dot on a massive 
grid. But what does this have to do 
with writing?
When writing in such a loca-
tion, you do not have to spend time thinking or worrying about location; the city keeps you in 
place and locks you into your little block. You are certainly not 
trapped. Your mind kind of just 
accepts it, and you soon realize 
just how small and insigniﬁ  cant you are. 
Writers are often preoccupied with the 
concept of personal identity, knowing their 
true self and expressing that. Knowing where 
they are checks off one of the boxes and al-
lows them to delve deeper into the other facets of identity. A city like New York City 
is incessantly beaming with energy, packed with millions of determined doers. The city 
is both worldly and an isolated bubble of its own, and I believe it thrives as a city of cre-
ativity because artists can go there and settle 
into the grid, among the masses, and truly focus on themselves. There is a book by Eric Weiner called 
“The Geography of Genius,” which discusses the relationship between creativity and the 
physical environment. One major point dis-
cussed was how nearly all the greatest minds and centers of creativity in history have been found in bustling cities — not even the pret-
tiest ones at that. Nothing against places like Bora Bora and Honolulu, but the book ar-
gues that living in a large, not-exactly com-
fortable city such as New York is the prime 
environment for working creatively. The city 
life presents challenges, fosters creativity, re-
wards innovation and  writers reap the ben-eﬁ  ts of intense competition in every aspect 
of life.
Some of the book’s ideas might seem like 
reaches, but I think the idea is both fascinat-ing and has some truth to it. It is often said that humans are creatures of habit, but as it 
turns out, habitat can signiﬁ  cantly affect our work as well.
Andrew Hall is a UF management junior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
Geography: It matters more to the creative process than one may thinkColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Spring Break just made Smith Meyers 
something of a minor celebrity. I’d comfort-
ably bet he has better name recognition now 
than when he won the Student Government 
election.
In Key West, he completely blacked out 
and knocked over a series of scooters and 
motorcycles after failing to steal them — but 
this is not controversial. That he tried to steal these vehicles so he could (presumably) drive home, even though he was so drunk he didn’t know he was in Key West — this is not con-
troversial either. In fact, it’s hardly been talk-
ed about at all.
No, what makes the Meyers case contro-
versial is that a vocal minority of UF students 
— all of them, weirdly, members of his party, 
the Impact Party, or social circle — believe Meyers shouldn’t be criticized at all.
All week long, the Alligator has ﬁ  elded 
op-eds from supporters, sympathizers, cur-rent Student Body President Susan Webster and Meyers himself. These are passionate defenses against 
those who suggest that — maybe 
— Meyers should resign, given his criminal record and making the rest of us look like idiots. Some of these 
suggestions have been (gasp!) ir-
reverent in tone, which prompted one writer to draw parallels be-tween criticizing Meyers and death threats.
Meyers’ supporters frame their cause like 
this: Yeah, what he did was stupid, maybe even wrong, but why should we let one night of drinking ruin a young man’s life?
Look, I don’t care that Meyers clearly loves 
booze. Frankly, I’d be worried if he didn’t like to put on a load every now and then. I sure do. I’ve been drunk before and have plans to get drunk in the very near future. What concerns me is that when the future representative for UF has four or ﬁ  ve too many, he starts acting like it’s Grand Theft Auto IV out there.
I went to the protest Tuesday — 
just for a quick visit. A giddy con-tingent of counter-protesters sur-rounded the person speaking and 
shouted “Stick with Smith!” over 
and over … and over. Most had prank signs, some of which were 
really funny. “Jet fuel can’t topple scooters” was my favorite.
Why stick with Smith? None gave a rea-
son. They simply stood there, grinning and yelling, shouting down fellow students.
That’s all this is: a huge joke. They don’t 
need to give a reason — they never will, be-cause they know they’ll get their way, no mat-ter what.
We knew that already. We knew SG is 
nothing other than a toy for Meyers and his friends. He won’t resign, won’t get ﬁ  red and likely won’t even face charges.
To Smith Meyers; to his friends and his 
supporters (if there’s a difference): We know you don’t give a damn about us — you know we don’t like you at all. Why try to convince ourselves otherwise?
Let’s drop the act. You exist only to serve 
yourselves and pad your resumes. That’s ﬁ  ne! But quit claiming you’re any kind of public servant, or that you speak for me or any other student.
Don’t worry: I won’t stand in the way of 
your weird little dreams. Your plans to draft posts for Marco Rubio’s Instagram or what-ever are safe. In return, when the bloated, 
drunken disgrace you call a president hits the 
headlines, I’m going to make fun of him.
Deal?Alec Carver is a UF history senior and a 
former Alligator opinions editor. 
Finally, a Spring Break story worth reading: Smith Meyers deserves ridiculeLetter to the Editor
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
By Shannon Claﬂ  in
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s St. Patrick’s Day, that time of year when hordes of revel-
ers drink green beer and celebrate their (oftentimes nonexis-
tent) Irish heritage.
Here are some businesses across Gainesville that are cel-
ebrating with Irish music and endless pitchers.
Mother’s Pub and GrillToday, Mother’s Pub and Grill, located at 1017 W. Univer-
sity Ave. will have St. Patrick’s Day drink specials like $3 green beer, $6 Irish car bombs and $8 Jameson car bombs.  
“This will be my fourth St. Patrick’s Day spent at Mother’s,” 
said Wagner Braga, a 22-year-old UF industrial and systems en-gineering senior. “I don’t know what’s better, the green beer or the teriyaki wings.”
The Swamp RestaurantThe Swamp Restaurant, located at 1642 W. University Ave., 
is hosting a two-day event to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. On Thursday, customers could purchase the $10 Swampat-
rick’s Day package, which included all-you-can-drink beer from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m., a Swampatrick’s Day T-shirt, which is good for skipping the line and free cover Friday night, as well as a coin for buy-one-get-one-free green beer at the main event.
The main event celebration will begin at 11 a.m. today. Hap-
py hour specials are from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Additionally, Free Beer Friday will be in full effect from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m.
FIX Nightclub by The Dynasty GroupThe Dynasty Group, located at 109 S. Main St., invites guests 
to “celebrate the biggest party night of the year,” according to their website, at the FIX Nightclub from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. tonight. Everyone drinks free from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. with $2 green shots and green beer all night.
DJs Big T and Klarc Shepard will be playing contemporary 
music, as well as traditional Irish music, for the duration of the celebration.
Tickets for the event can be purchased online. General ad-
mission is free before 10:30 p.m. and $10 for all-night general admission.Gainesville bars, clubs oﬀ  ering deals for St. Patrick’s DaySTUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   1 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
MICHAEL KORS
SMARTWATCH
TEXT ANY OF THE ABOVE KEYWORDS TO 
‘47464’ TO BE ENTERED TO WIN THAT PRIZEGOOGLE HOME
APPLE WATCH
LIVE GAINESVILLE
your way .TEXT TO WIN
‘GOOGLE’‘APPLE’‘MK’
West-20.com Live-13th.com Woodlands-Gainesville.com
West 20 will award a Michael Kors Smartwatch to one winner, Woodlands will award a Google Home to one winner and 13th Street will award an Apple Watch to one winner, drawn at random, from entrants whose text messages 
to number 47464 are received by 12pm on March 19, 2017 . Limit one entry per mobile phone number. No purchase necessary. Odds of winning depend on number of entrants. Sponsor is not responsible for failure of text message delivery. Winner will be notified by reply text message. Gift will be provided by within 30 days of being claimed, and will be forfeited if not claimed within 3 days of notification. Entrants will be contacted in the future by West 20, 13th Street and/or Woodlands of Gainesville with special offers but may opt out of further communications by written or electronic request.STUDENT LIVING GUIDE SPRING 2017STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   1 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Back
Spring 2017Are you still watching “Love It or List It”?2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
WHAT IS OFF CAMPUS LIFE?
UF’s Off Campus Life, which is a part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, 
has been providing support services and resources to UF students living off 
campus since 2004. Off Campus Life is located inside the Housing Ofﬁ  ce on the corner of SW 13th Street & Museum Road. Visit www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu
Free Online Housing Locator Service:  
Students can search for off-campus 
housing, subleases and roommates through this free online site.  This site also allows students to post sublease listings. Go to 
http://housing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu to use 
this resource.
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life: A 
free publication that provides tips and resources for ﬁ  nding the right apartment, budgeting information, safety tips, tips to reduce your utility usage, a map of the city, and much more. To get a copy of the Gator 
Guide, visit the OCL ofﬁ  ce located inside 
the Housing Ofﬁ  ce on the corner of SW 13th Street & Museum Road, or visit the OCL website at www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu and click on the Gator Guide link. 
Individual Meetings: Off Campus Life 
provides one on one meetings with students who are searching for off-campus housing. Meetings include information on the housing market, average costs, lease information, steps to follow to ﬁ  nd off-campus housing, safety tips, transportation information, and the answers to your housing questions. To set up an appointment please complete the appointment request form available 
through the OCL website www.offcampus.
uﬂ  .edu/appointments/ or call (352)392-1207 to schedule a meeting with an OCL staff member.
Off Campus Ambassadors: OCL’s 
sponsored student organization works 
to connect off-campus students with 
UF and the Gainesville community. The OCA’s assist Off Campus Life with events, outreach efforts, and plan their own events including an annual Roommate Mixer and Puppy Palooza.  To learn more, visit the Off Campus Ambassador webpage at www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu/off_campus_ambassadors/. 
Discover Gainesville: This monthly event series allows students to attend fun activities in the Gainesville community, and OCL covers the cost. Upcoming Spring 2016 Discover Gainesville events include hiking at Devil’s Millhopper (March 26th) 
and Free Ice Cream Scoop at Sweet Dreams 
(April 11th). To learn more about Discover Gainesville and to reserve a spot for one of OCL’s upcoming events visit the OCL website events page www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu/events. 
Social Media: Check OCL out on 
social media including Facebook, Twitter, 
YouTube, Instagram and Pinterest @
UFOffCampusLife.
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus Life
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus Life
• Utilize UF’s Off Campus 
Housing Locator Service at 
http://housing.offcampus.
uﬂ  .edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a property that al-lows you to live within 
your means.
• Choose a well-suited room-mate or choose to live 
alone. Know what kind of person would best comple-
ment your personality and 
choose accordingly.
• Create a priority list. What do you care about most in a living space? Room size, 
rent, type of lease, type 
of community (large un-dergraduate population, 
graduate students, local 
residents, etc.), location, proximity to campus or bus route. Create a list of ideal 
characteristics you want in 
your future living space and keep these criteria in mind 
when selecting a location.
• Drive around and visit the properties and neighbor-
hoods where you are think-
ing about living.  
• Take a tour of the complex-es or houses that interest 
you, ask questions and get to know the complex man-
agement or rental house 
landlord.
• Ask your friends for advice on where to live. Which properties worked well for 
them?  Which did not?
• Check the RTS bus routes www.go-rts.com to make 
sure routes work for your class schedule.• Visit the Crime Reports website www.crimereports.
com to view, on a search-
able map, crime statistics before signing a lease. 
• While taking a tour check for safety features including 
deadbolts and peepholes on 
entrance doors, windows that lock, exterior lighting 
and well maintained prop-
erties. 
• Also, go back to the prop-erty at night and check to see if the property is it 
well-lit, do you see the se-
curity guard that manage-
ment promised, is the secu-
rity gate working, is it quiet enough to study and sleep, 
and check the lighting at 
the bus stop or parking lot to the complex or house.
• Once you’ve narrowed down your search, make an 
appointment with UF’s Stu-
dent Legal Services by go-ing to their website www.
studentlegalservices.ufl.
edu. SLS can help you in re-viewing the lease BEFORE 
you sign it. This is a great 
way to understand your le-gal responsibilities under 
that lease. GETTING STARTED
Gainesville has an abundance of off-campus 
housing options, so take your time, and be sure to visit at least 5-6 properties in person before signing a lease. Follow the steps below to ﬁ  nd the right place for you or visit http://housing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu.
Gainesville is 
a great place to 
rent and live, 
so remember to 
have fun with 
your search!
SHOULD YOU HAVE A ROOMMATE?
Having a roommate is a great way to divide the cost of living off campus, but if you 
don’t ﬁ  nd the right person to live with, living off campus could be challenging.
• Start your roommate search with a friend 
or sibling. These are often good options for roommates since you already know them.
• Communication is key.  Talk about your budget for housing, expectations for safety, expectations for guests, and what your housing needs are before you even begin your search. Being on the same page as your roommate(s) will improve your roommate experience and reduce the possibility for conﬂ  ict. 
• Before moving in, establish an agreement about who will get which bedroom and bathroom along with which cabinets/storage space each person can use.
• Discuss how payment of rent and bills will take place. Is each person responsible for their own bills or will someone be in charge of collecting payment from each roommate?
• Don’t have someone you want to live with? Some apartment complexes offer “Roommate Matching” or “Roommate Placement.”
• Make sure you can change apartments if management places you with roommates you are not compatible with, be aware there is typically a fee if you need to move due to a roommate issue.
• Off Campus Life’s Housing Locator http://housing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu has a roommate ﬁ  nder feature where you can search for roommates.4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeTYPES OF LEASES
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease 
before signing. A lease is a contract between you and your landlord 
or apartment complex management that outlines specific details of your living arrangement. Leases often involve policies about pets, security and pet deposits, subleasing, legal entry and other important information. Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 months. If you need to rent for 10 months or less, talk with the management about whether they can provide a short-term lease. 
There are two types of leases that are usually 
available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.
Joint Lease: All roommates are held responsible for the lease. If one 
person breaks the lease, the other roommates are held responsible for 
paying the total rent. This tends to be the lease more prominent when renting a house or single family dwelling.
 Individual Lease: Each person is held responsible for his or her own 
actions. For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still responsible for paying their own rent. For most college students, individual leases are the best choice. Each person in the lease is responsible for his or her own actions and not the actions of a roommate.  • Dates of occupancy
• Monthly rent and the date 
it is due each month
• Application Fees, Security Deposit, Redecoration Fees, 
and any other fees charged• Responsibility for payment of utilities
• Responsibility for general 
maintenance and repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 
month lease, but think you may need the dwelling for a shorter period of time, make sure the lease allows you to sublease (rent your dwelling to another person who will assume the remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of leaseCLAUSES TO LOOK FOR IN A LEASE 
• The tenant may be asked to leave within three days
• Tenant waives all defects in 
the building
• Landlord shall not be 
responsible for injury to person, including tenant and guests, as a result of any cause
• Tenant is responsible for all 
repairs to premises 
• Landlord is allowed enter 
dwelling without notice• Landlord has a lien on all personal property of tenant
• For any questions on your 
lease, visit the Student 
Legal Services website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu and set up an 
appointment with a lawyer 
to review the lease BEFORE 
you sign it. CLAUSES TO AVOID IN YOUR LEASE 
SAFETY TIPS FOR RENTERS
Both personal and property safety is important as you search for off-campus 
housing.  Before signing a lease, Off Campus Life recommends you check the 
crime statistics for an area before moving there.  The Crime Reports website www.crimereports.com allows you to search by address, and see on map, crime that has occurred in that area over the last three weeks. Below are five tips to utilize when looking at safety during your apartment search:FOLLOW OFF CAMPUS LIFE ON SOCIAL MEDIA
1. Go back to the complex at night. How do you feel? Is the place 
well-lit and populated or dark and isolated?
2. Does the property have working security gates and/or guards?
3. Check for dead bolts on the exterior door(s), locks for individual room doors, alarm systems, etc. and ask specific questions about 
the security. Is there an extra charge for a security system?
4. Has there been crime in the area recently? What actions have 
been done to prevent crime from happening?
5. Don’t forget about purchasing Renters Insurance to protect you and your stuff from the unexpected.STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
6   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus Life• What is the monthly rent?
• What is included in that rent? Utilities, gas, water, 
cable, internet, furniture?
• What is not included in rent? What is the average monthly cost for gas, electric, water, garbage disposal? If management doesn’t know, contact GRU at www.gru.com and they can give you average costs of utili-ties from the previous year.
• Want to have a pet? Factor in the deposit and monthly cost for food, medical and grooming care.
• Don’t forget the insurance. Before you sign your lease, call your insurance company and see how much it will cost monthly to insure your apartment or house.• Are you going to need fuel for your vehicle or are you going to use the bus? Factor parking decal costs and car maintenance costs into your budget.
• How much will you spend monthly on groceries or on 
a meal plan?
• Have some fun! Don’t spend so much on rent that you 
don’t have money for fun stuff.
• What do you spend on clothing, shoes and accesso-ries? 
• How much money can you save every month? It’s 
ideal to save some money every month to cover unex-
pected emergency expenses. Even $20 a month saved is good.  Every little bit counts!BUDGETING TIPSYou can’t ﬁ  nd the right place to live until you know how much you are able to 
spend. Here are some budget questions you should think about while touring.
Your living environment plays a major factor in your overall happiness level. Know what you want to get out of your living space and choose your location and roommate(s) accordingly. Gainesville is home now, so let Off Campus Life help you get the most out of your off-campus experience.
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
UPGRADE
YOUR LIFESTYLE
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeSHOULD YOU INVEST IN RENTER’S INSURANCE?
If you are thinking about renting a house or apart-
ment, renters insurance provides important coverage 
for both you and your possessions. A standard rent-
ers policy protects your personal property in case of 
theft or damage and may pay for temporary living expenses if your rental is damaged (including loss of use). It can also shield you from personal liability. 
Anyone who leases a house or apartment should con-
sider this type of coverage. 
Talk with your family before getting your own 
renters policy. If you are still ﬁ  nancially dependent on your parents or a family member and they own 
a home, they might be able to cover you under their 
homeowner’s policy. Some homeowner policies will cover a dependent’s rental property while in college.  
There are several types of residential insurance 
policies. Read your policy information carefully and ensure you have full coverage. Policies should in-clude the following items: Fire or lightning; Wind-storm or hail; Explosion; Aircraft; Vehicles; Smoke; Vandalism or malicious mischief; Theft; Damage by 
glass or safety-glazing material that is part of a build-
ing; Falling objects; Water-related damage from home utilities; and Electrical surge damage.
Floods, earthquakes, and hurricanes aren’t on the 
list. If you live in an area prone to one or more of the three, you’ll need to buy a separate policy or a rider. In areas where hurricanes can pose a threat, you might also need to buy a separate rider to cover wind damage. Ask your insurance agent about this 
extra coverage. Gainesville is prone to hurricanes and 
some areas do ﬂ  ood.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby 
shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. 
$2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray.Odorless, Long Lasting.Available: Hardware Stores,The Home Depot, homedepot.com.Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!     3-17-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos18   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-29-17-55-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from April – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-17-17-5-14
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    3-24-17-8-14
Sun Country Sportsis hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 15 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     3-27-17-9-14
General maintenance positions available. Light duty - fence work, janitorial, pressure washing, irrigation, etc. Email resume to jobs@mssgainesville.com for consideration. $11-15/hr.         3-21-17-5-14
Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Research A ssistant position
requires Javascript, AWS,  
email 1 page resume to science@mammacare.org    3-30-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Divorce - Paternity - Child Support
Sharon L. Neil, Esq.
(352) 494-8848
www.neilcivillaw.com/family-law
3-23-7-15
AIRLINE SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeks not years to become a certified aircraft dispatcher. Job placement assistance.Call AIM 888-242- 2649.       3-17-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726and make a REAL connection.       3-17-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305      3-17-1-16
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger &amp; Harder Immediately!Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently &amp; Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Phone Consultation: 1-800- 354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com     3-17-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 “Oopsy”
6 Grand Prix
component
9 In things
13 Adult insect14 Prefix with data15 Subject 
preceder
16 Laboratory
scam?
18 Saves, say19 Challenge20 Like some
flushes
22 Missed the mark24 Spike TV, once25 Nile threats28 Snubbing a
testimonial?
33 Take for a while35 B to C, e.g.
36 Call off
37 Something
shared on aplane
40 Pres. when
Brown v. Board
of Education of
Topeka wasdecided
41 “The Social
Contract” author
43 Hindu ascetics45 John Deere rep?48 Old Nair rival49 “You betcha!”50 Mozart opera
ending
52 Spendthrift56 Hospital test60 Large deep-water
fish
61 Ordinary law
office employee?
63 Actor
Auberjonois
64 Relaxed65 Refresh, as a cup
of coffee
66 Participants in
some awkwardmeetings
67 Case breaker,
perhaps
68 Flower holders
DOWN
1 Category for non-
recurring pd. bills2 1979 disco
classic
3 Payment that’s
posted
4 Eternal
5 Philanthropist, e.g.6 Common Market
letters
7 Ancient
colonnade
8 Sacred sites9 Stocking stuff
10 Not backing11 Party pooper
12 First family
member
14 Poet’s concern
17 Short21 Being23 Throw into
turmoil
25 On the ball26 Monterrey title27 “The Taming of
the Shrew”setting
29 Obsessive idea
metaphor
30 Caravan
assembler
31 Common
Sundance entry32 Notice from
Shakespeare?
34 Time for eggs38 Worked on, as a
cold case
39 Fold, spindle or
mutilate
42 Crop cutters44 Buck46 Gin __47 Other, in 
Oaxaca51 Slopes52 Had on53 Top
54 Fit to be tried
55 Student’s request57 Vacation spot
58 Jack-in-the-pulpit
family
59 Gets caught off
guard
62 The ANC’s
country
By Paul Coulter©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/17/1703/17/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, March 17, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida baseball opens SEC play
The Gators will hit the road for their conference opener against Auburn 
today at 7 in Auburn, Alabama. Florida didn't play the Tigers last season.  For coverage of the game, go online to alligator.org/sports Jack Guyton and the Florida 
track and ﬁ  eld team open their outdoor season today at UCF. Read the story, pg. 22By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
ORLANDO — Before the Gators set 
foot on the court at the Amway Center 
for their ﬁ  rst NCAA Tournament action 
in two years, Mike White turned on the 
locker room’s TV. 
During Sunday’s selection show, 
Florida was picked as the ﬁ  rst upset of 
the tournament, set to lose to No. 13 
seed East Tennessee State.
UF’s second-year coach replayed 
the tape for his players prior to their matchup with the Buccaneers.
“It put a chip on our shoulder,” 
Devin Robinson said.
The junior forward responded as 
best as he could.
By scoring — a lot. 
Robinson scored 24 points on 10-
for-17 shooting and grabbed seven re-bounds, as the Gators (25-8) handled 
ETSU 80-65 on Thursday afternoon in 
the tournament’s ﬁ  rst round.
In his ﬁ  rst NCAA Tournament ap-
pearance, Robinson threw down ﬁ  ve dunks, including a two-handed jam to 
give UF its ﬁ  rst points of the game.
“I ain’t ever seen him dunk that 
much,” guard Chris Chiozza said of 
Robinson. “It’s fun to watch him when 
he’s on like that because he can score 
at all three levels… . When he’s on on 
offense, he’s a force on both ends of 
the court.”
Robinson and senior guard Kasey 
Hill led the Gators on a 10-4 run to be-
gin the ﬁ  rst period.
But after starting the ﬁ  rst half 7-for-
8 from the ﬁ  eld, Florida’s offense and defense regressed.
The Buccaneers (27-8) shot 48 per- Robinson, Chiozza lead Gators in ﬁ  rst 
round NCAA tourney win over ETSU
The Associated Press
Devin Robinson attempts a dunk during Florida's win over ETSU on 
Thursday in Orlando. Robinson led the Gators with 24 points. 
IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
ORLANDO — It was fairly obvious on Thursday, even as the final seconds ticked off the clock, and even as the game’s outcome wasn’t in ques-tion.
This was a great season for Florida basketball. 
No matter what happens from here. 
This season was a success.
Clearly, UF coach Mike White has maximized the tal-
ent on UF’s roster to its fullest extent. He has meshed a senior point guard, a graduate transfer, a handful of athletic wings and a shot blocker into, at the very least, a Round of 32 NCAA Tournament team. 
And, at times this season, they even looked like an 
Elite Eight team. 
There was Florida’s meeting with now-No. 1 seed 
Gonzaga in November, where the Gators lost by just five points at a neutral site.
There was the nine-game winning streak through Jan-
uary and February, when Florida catapulted itself back into the national spotlight.
There was the 88-66 demolition of now-No. 2 seed 
Kentucky at home in February, a win that declared a clear message to the rest of the SEC: The Wildcats won’t be the only team to fear in March.
And, finally, there was Thursday, an 80-65 win against 
No. 13 seed East Tennessee State. It was Florida’s first NCAA Tournament win since 2014 and the first NCAA Tournament appearance for White as a head coach.
But it meant so much more.
It takes time to rebuild a program after the departure 
of a coaching legend. And, yes, that rebuilding can be 
painful: At times in the first half on Thursday, Florida 
looked like a team full of players who had never played in 
the NCAA Tournament before (which, except for senior guard Kasey Hill, is true).
So there might have been nerves. There may not have 
been. But there were definitely mistakes. There were careless errors, passes slipping out of hands, air balls on jump shots and on free throws.
And none of it mattered.Florida advanced. Even if they lose against Virginia 
on Saturday, even if they get blown out in embarrassing fashion, this season was unequivocally a success.
The Gators have proven that they can beat an NCAA 
Tournament Team, that their sustained success over the 
course of the season was legitimate. 
And, Gators fans, they’ve proven that it’s OK to trust 
in whatever White is building in Gainesville.
Because no matter what happens on Saturday, White 
has proven that his blueprint works.  No matter what 
happens, UF’s season 
was a success
By Lauren Staff 
Sports Writer
The pain started halfway through 
her sophomore year.
UF gymnast Claire Boyce started 
feeling discomfort in her hip, which 
got worse as the season went on.
At the 2015 NCAA Champion-
ship, she was ﬁ  ghting just to make it through a routine.
But despite her injury, she earned 
All-American honors as the leadoff on ﬂ  oor, helping the Gators to a third con-secutive national title.
Nearly two years and one hip sur-gery later, Boyce decided — months from another potential national title run — to end her gymnastics career in the middle of her senior season. 
It wasn’t the way she envisioned 
the ending to a career spanning nearly 18 years, but she knew it was time to embrace a new role for the Gators.
And despite her gymnastics career 
ending, she’s already moving on.
“I wanted to be everything I could 
be for the team,” Boyce said. “But I knew at that point it just wasn’t going to be enough.”
• • • 
For the ﬁ  rst time in over a year, Boyce was ready to compete.
It was Jan. 8, and the Gators were 
opening up the season on the road at N.C. State.
After spending her junior year on 
the sideline recovering from a nine-hour surgery, she was ﬁ  nally given the opportunity to open her senior season on ﬂ  oor.
“I always tell people she basically 
had a whole hip replacement,” former Florida teammate Bridget Sloan said. “Normally, if you can get up and walk-ing, and maybe running, it’s awesome. But the fact that she was able to come Boyce's Choice: UF gymnast steps away  SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 21
SEE BOYCE,  PAGE 22
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbFRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR  21
Email cover letter and resume to Trisha Carey · tcarey@alligator.orgHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTED
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production 
department, and coordinate newspaper design 
and layout with content from student editors. Requirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Expereience working with students is a plus.
• Must have expereience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring. 
Schedule changes during summer semester.Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great work atmosphere. Modest salary. 
No phone calls, please. Must be willing to begin working late April or early May.preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTESTURBINE POWER
The future of the automobile
visit americanturbines.com
• No Gas
• No Batteries• No Pollution
Discount
Appliances
$10 off with this coupon
352-318-4983
cent from the ﬂ  oor in the open-
ing half and hit four three-point-
ers to get back in the game.
A layup by ETSU guard T.J. 
Cromer with just over a minute 
left in the ﬁ  rst frame cut the 
Gators’ lead to one, and a step 
back three-pointer 10 seconds 
into the ﬁ  nal half gave the Buc-
caneers their ﬁ  rst lead of the game at 35-33.
Then three Gators stepped 
up.
Chiozza scored all 14 of 
his points in the second half. 
Robinson nailed a pair of 
three-pointers. And a steal and rim-shattering dunk by sopho-
more forward Kevarrius Hayes 
capped off a 26-10 run to give 
UF a commanding 59-43 lead 
with just over eight minutes to 
play.
Hayes added seven points, seven rebounds, two blocks and 
a Florida NCAA Tournament 
single-game record six steals.
“I would say, in terms of the 
game ball, it would probably 
go to Chris and both of these 
guys,” White said. “My staff’s 
ﬁ  red up… . We got to the tour-
nament. We won a game. We’re 
ready to move on to the next one.”
With the win, the Gators 
advance to the Round of 32, where they will meet No. 5-seed Virginia on Saturday.
The Cavaliers survived a 
ﬁ  rst-round scare in a 76-71 win over No. 12 seed UNC Wilming-ton.
“We still got a lot more bas-
ketball to be played,” Robinson 
said. “It feels good to get this 
win, but we’ve still got to … be 
ready to play Saturday.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg.20Florida plays against 
Virginia on Saturday By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer  
 
Heading into his team’s Feb. 25 
matchup against Liberty, coach Tim 
Walton made a change in the lineup.
The change affected who would 
be the lead-off hitter — a spot that had already been altered from senior Justine McLean to junior Nicole De-Witt in the ﬁ  rst two games of the Cit-rus Classic.
This time, it was sophomore 
Amanda Lorenz’s turn to lead off and set the tone for the Gators.  
Even though 
Florida took the 
2-1 win, Lorenz re-corded no hits.
But Walton 
kept her where she was, and since the change, the offense has surged.
A total of 70 
runs have been scored since the change, and Lorenz had accounted for 13 of them. She has also contrib-uted 16 hits and four RBIs.
“I think Amanda Lorenz is doing a good job being at the top of the line-up,” Walton said.
While her consistent hitting has 
been able to set the tone early for Florida in several games, others have also been growing into their roles as 
the season has developed. 
This has created an offense that 
has helped Florida to the nation's No. 
2 ranking. 
Junior Janell Wheaton has had 11 
hits since Feb. 25, including a grand slam in Wednesday’s win over North Dakota State. Meanwhile, senior Chel-sea Herndon had three hits in the win.  
“Everyone knows the role, every-
one knows what they need to do,” Herndon said.
“We can all count on that one per-
son to get the thing done that they need to do.”
But despite consistent hitting for 
Florida since the change, Walton doesn’t believe that the Gators have 
reached their peak quite yet.
“I think it’s just a matter of time 
before we settle in and start getting a little bit more consistent offensive 
swings,” Walton said. “Overall, I think we’re happy with where we’re at.”
With SEC play getting underway, 
that consistency is exactly what UF is looking for ahead of a weekend se-
ries against No. 24 South Carolina in 
Columbia. Today’s game will be the third time Florida has faced a ranked opponent this season.
The Gators have not faced South 
Carolina since 2015, when the Gators outscored the Gamecocks 45-5 in a three-game series.
In that series, Herndon recorded 
an RBI and then-sophomore Delanie Gourley pitched three innings and re-corded a pair of strikeouts.
But at that time, South Carolina 
wasn’t a ranked team. Now, the Gamecocks boast a 19-7 record.
The series will be good competi-
tion for Florida, and an opportunity for it to work towards consistent bat-
ting.
“We’re working hard and just got 
to keep getting better,” Walton said.
The game’s ﬁ  rst pitch is at 7 p.m., 
and the action will be aired on the 
SEC Network.  
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org  UF softball looking for consistent oﬀ  ense
Lorenz
back and actually do gymnastics is 
pretty remarkable.”
Throughout her recovery pro-
cess, returning had been the long-
term goal. She wanted to lead the 
team as the sole senior on Florida’s 
roster.
After that initial matchup with 
the Wolfpack, Boyce hoped she 
would be able to make it through 
the rest of the schedule, but after 
the Arkansas meet on Feb. 17, she knew that the physical pain and stress was too much.
Instead of continuing and risk-
ing permanent damage to her hip, she made the choice to retire.
It was a relief for Boyce’s mom, 
Kimberly Wilson, who was 18 hours away from her only daugh-ter.
“I never told her how many 
nights I would lie awake worried about what she was doing,” Wilson said. “I know her, that she pushed herself way further than she should. I was definitely worried.”Through the first seven meets, 
Boyce was part of four floor line-ups, posting a season-best 9.875 against Georgia in what turned out to be her last time competing in the O’Connell Center.
She holds collegiate-bests of 
9.95 (beam), 9.90 (floor) and 9.875 (bars).
For the remainder of the 2017 
season she will serve as a student-coach, which allows her to stay in-volved with the team.
“She’s just such a positive role 
model," Florida coach Jenny Row-land said, "and it just shows how wonderful of a leader she has been on this team.” 
• • • 
At some point during this sea-
son, all four of Florida’s freshmen were asked the same question: Which teammate helped you the most when transitioning to college?
They had the same response: 
Claire Boyce.
If Rachel Gowey needed help 
figuring out what outfit she should wear for a team event, Boyce would help her pick one out.
If Amelia Hundley was having a 
rough day at practice, Boyce would know exactly what to say to make her feel better.
If Sierra Alexander needed help 
balancing school with gymnastics and having a social life, Boyce was there to offer her advice on how to manage her time.
“If she can do anything to help 
her team, she’s going to do it,” Sloan said. “In my eyes, Claire was my person, and she still is.” 
Helping her teammates is a role 
that she had always taken serious-ly, and it became even more impor-tant during her junior season.
While she couldn’t contribute 
on the mat, off the competition floor she developed even deeper re-lationships with those around her.“Gymnastics comes to end an 
eventually, and being able to grow as a person and learn who you are, that’s really important,” Boyce said.
But while her decision may still 
sting, she is appreciating the time she still has left as a Gator.
“I want to grow up to be like 
Claire,” her mom said. “Because she is so wise beyond her years.”
• • • 
When Boyce announced that her 
career had come to an abrupt end, it forced her teammates to take a step back and examine their own careers and how fortunate they are.
“You kind of take it for granted 
sometimes, every day coming in and training,” Hundley said. “You have to go back and take a second and count all of your blessings.”But it’s actually all the time 
spent in hospitals over the years that has inspired Boyce. 
After she graduates in August 
with a degree in applied physiology & kinesiology-fitness wellness, she is going to nursing school.
With hopes of someday work-
ing in an emergency room, she’s already ahead of her future peers in some ways. 
She’s not intimidated with the 
stress and demands that a nursing job requires, which she can thank gymnastics for.
“My whole life we’ve had 
training and had so much on our plates,” Boyce said. “I feel like that would suit me.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org22   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
TRACK AND FIELD 
By Daniel Smithson 
Sports Writer
Florida sophomore Jack Guyton 
started running competitively to 
stay in shape for lacrosse. 
After his freshman cross coun-
try season, Guyton’s coach thought 
he’d better keep the stick out of his 
hands and his feet on the track. 
“I ended up being pretty good 
at cross country my freshman year, so my high school coach convinced me to quit lacrosse and run track instead,” Guyton said. 
The rest was history. The Tampa, Florida, native went 
on to become a state champion in the 1,600 and 3,200 meters at the 2014 FHSAA Class 4A Outdoor Fi-nals. He followed up that impres-sive junior campaign with a runner up finish in the 1,600 meters and a third-place finish in the 3,200 me-ters at the 2015 FHSAA Class 4A Outdoor Finals. 
Guyton’s ability did not go un-
noticed by the media.
Guyton said a local reporter cre-
ated a nickname for him – Gunlap Guyton – due to his ability to turn on the jets in races as the gun went 
off to signal the final lap. 
And reporters weren't the only 
ones watching.
Guyton start-
ed receiving of-
fers to run track 
and cross coun-try from several different univer-
sities. 
Guyton said 
he considered 
FSU and the Uni-
versity of North Florida before de-ciding to sign with UF after what he said was a great visit. 
“I really liked how Florida had 
a great track team, not just cross 
country,” Guyton said.Guyton got involved with cross 
country right away but ended up 
redshirting his freshman indoor season. 
He did, however, compete in 
four outdoor meets in 2016, which included a 14th-place finish in his 
primary outdoor event — the 1,500 
meters — at the Pepsi Florida Re-lays.  
His success at the USATF Out-
door Junior Championships, where he missed making the World Junior team in the 1,500 meters by a lit-tle over a second, led to a smooth transition into a successful redshirt-
freshman indoor season. 
At the Commodore Invitational 
on Jan. 13, Guyton clocked the fast-
est mile by a Gator in six years and the No. 8 time on Florida’s all-time top 10. He finished his season by placing fifth in the mile finals at the SEC Indoor Championships as the only freshman in the race. 
Guyton and a few of his team-mates will kick off the 2017 outdoor season in Orlando this weekend at the UCF Black and Gold Challenge. 
Florida coach Mike Holloway 
said the Gators ended their indoor season well, but they’re excited to get outdoors.
“Everything we do, we do better 
outdoors,” Holloway said. 
Holloway also said Florida, the 
2016 Outdoor National Champi-ons, will look to build off a strong showing at the 2017 NCAA Indoor Championships, where they placed second to Texas A&M, coming within a point from adding another 
championship trophy to its collec-
tion.  
“It’s almost one of those things 
where if you’re going to be second, you want to get beat soundly so that you’re not walking around like, ‘What’s half a point?” Holloway said. “Any scenario you can come up with comes with half a point.” 
Not taking credit away from Texas A&M, Holloway said coming in second is clearly motivation for the team during the outdoor sea-son. 
“We will definitely have a little 
extra pep to us during outdoor sea-son,” Holloway said. 
Guyton, who will compete in the 
800 meters this weekend, said he’s looking forward to getting his legs going. 
“It’ll be nice to get my legs mov-
ing a little faster than normal,” Guyton said. “It will get me ready 
for Florida Relays in the 1,500.”
As for what Guyton will be doing 
before he runs those 800 meters, he 
said he’ll be listening to music.
 And when asked what he listens 
to, Guyton’s smile could be heard in his voice.
“Um,” he chuckled, “Kodak 
Black.”
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.com
Guyton, Gators to open up outdoor season at UCF
Guyton 
Courtesy of Bridget Sloan 
Claire Boyce (left) and Bridget Sloan pose for a photo during UF's 
win over Alabama on Jan. 29, 2016 in the O'Connell Center. 
Courtesy of Bridget Sloan
Claire Boyce (right) hugs teammate Bridget Sloan during the 2016 NCAA Super Six. 
BOYCE,  from pg.20Boyce's mom: 'I never told her how many nights I would lie awake worried'FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   23
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
ORLANDO — In the ﬁ  rst posses-
sion of his ﬁ  rst NCAA Tournament 
game, Kevarrius Hayes lost the ball under the rim.
“I was a little nervous.” Hayes 
said. “I kind of dropped it. I had it too far back.... I was trying to hurry up before I had the ball secured.”
UF coach Mike White saw him 
rushing through his motions and 
told Hayes to slow down on the 
sideline.
Hayes took that advice.“I always listen to the man, he’s 
very wise,” Hayes said. 
With nerves out of his way, 
Hayes recorded a UF NCAA Tour-nament record six steals in No. 4 seed Florida’s 80-65 win over No. 
13 seed East Tennessee State on 
Thursday in Orlando.
On offense, Hayes scored 7 
points, shooting 2-for-3 from the 
ﬁ  eld and sinking 3-of-4 free throw 
attempts. He also hauled in a team-high four offensive rebounds, help-
ing UF edge out ETSU in second chance points, 12-10.
In addition to a career-high six 
steals on the defensive end, Hayes logged two blocks, including one emphatic swat off the backboard with under four minutes remaining to preserve a 12-point UF lead.
He said it’s always a good feel-
ing when he completes a hustle play like that.
“Being able to keep a team from 
scoring,” he said, “it’s one of the greater feelings in basketball.”
Hayes has shouldered an in-
creasingly heavy burden on defense since UF’s former starting center, John Egbunu, was sidelined for the season after an ACL tear on Feb. 14.
“It’s no secret he has like 30, 40 
pounds on me,” Hayes said. “He’s clearly a more physical presence in the paint.”
Hayes said he was always cogni-
zant of that when he used to back up Egbunu, but now he’s the num-ber one option under the rim.He said he’s been able to com-
pensate for the size difference by being active on defense, keeping his hands high and doing the little things that help a defense lock in.
But with Florida’s lack of depth 
at center, he now has to deal with the added pressure of being the team’s only experienced defensive anchor.
When he comes out, either Gor-
jok Gak, Schuyler Rimmer or Keith Stone sub in — three of the four players with the fewest minutes played on the season.
But Hayes isn’t feeling the pres-
sure anymore after the win.
He said he was meant to play in 
the NCAA Tournament.  
“I’m a March birthday,” Hayes 
said. “So I was made for March Madness. I was hoping that one day I could probably be able to play here. And I guess in a way dreams come true.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org  UF center Kevarrius Hayes was ‘made for March Madness’
The Associated Press
Kevarrius Hayes blocks a shot during UF’s win over ETSU on Thursday.
24   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 2017
