We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Book club with Mayor Poe 
Mayor Lauren Poe held his third book club Sunday, pg. 5. 
A bone to pick 
Children took home fossils during museum event, pg 4. Gators blown out in Missouri 
Interim coach Randy Shannon loses ﬁ  rst game, 
45-16, pg. 14. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 32
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Vincent McDonald
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new sound has joined the din of bar 
music and speeding cars during late nights 
on West University Avenue.
From 8 p.m. to 3 a.m. Thursdays, Fridays 
and Saturdays, Amany Youssef calls out to 
passers-by from her Gator Dawgs hot dog 
stand.“You look like you could use a hot dog,” 
she calls out. “Come get some hot dogs.”
Youssef, 20, opened her stand Thursday 
beside the Dunkin’ Donuts, located at 1738 W. University Ave., and decorated it with or-ange and blue balloons, white string lights and a menu on a sandwich board.
The stand sells 10 types of hot dogs: one 
plain, one build-your-own and eight special-ity “dawgs,” from a teriyaki ﬂ  avor to one topped with marinara sauce and pepperoni. Prices range from $2.75 to $5.50. The hot dogs can be topped off with more than 30 
condiment options, Youssef said.
“I actually had a guy come in who wanted 
Yum Yum Sauce, ranch, mac and cheese, ba-
con and pineapples on top of his hot dog,” she said. 
Youssef, a UF biology junior, said she’s 
always wanted to start her own business. Al-though she’s a pre-med student, she thinks doctors typically lack business skills and wants to stand out on her medical school ap-plications, she said. 
“I can be like every other (one of the) 
55,000 kids at UF and do research in a lab that means absolutely nothing and just label poop all day in the microbio lab … or I can start my own business,” she said.
Her boyfriend, 21-year-old Deni Pa-
jkanovic, mans the grill while Youssef handles customers. Youssef’s friend, Kiki Gonzalez, an 18-year-old animal sciences freshman, helps serve the dogs. 
Pajkanovic and Gonzalez will be helping UF student opens late-night Midtown hot dog stand
The stand is open Thursdays, Fridays and SaturdaysChristina Morales / Alligator Staff
Children line up in front of the stage on Bo Diddley Community Plaza to welcome all Hispanic nations to the 15th annual Down-
town Latin Festival on Saturday. T o unite all of the nations, a horse rider rode out with an American ﬂ  ag. Read the article, pg. 3. 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
After being told not to, South Florida 
rapper Denzel Curry crowd surfed during 
his ﬁ  rst show at UF, which caused a speak-er to topple over, the music to stop and the lights to go on. 
The artist, who was paid $15,800 by 
the Reitz Programming Board to perform, played about ﬁ  ve songs for about 30 min-utes Friday night at the Reitz Union for Ga-torNights, a late-night entertainment pro-gram held every week. Based on the length of his performance, UF paid Curry about $527 per minute.
Solange Douglas, the Reitz Union assis-
tant director for programs, said the event was originally scheduled to last for 30 minutes and was not cut short by Curry’s actions. She said the Reitz Union wanted to encourage students to go to Midnight 
Munchies, another program that night. 
Curry took the stage a little after 10:30 
p.m. and left it a little after 11 p.m., Douglas 
said. Megan Newsome, a UF astronomy and 
astrophysics senior, said Curry was singing “Ultimate,” one of his most popular songs, when he jumped off the stage and landed on top of the event attendees.
Newsome said one of two speakers, 
which were on elevated tripods at each side of the stage in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, immediately lost balance and 
toppled over.
“At ﬁ  rst it was a really hectic confu-
sion,” the 21-year-old said. “It was scary Speaker falls at Denzel Curry concertABOUT 5,000 MORE STUDENTS 
CAME OUT TO VOTE IN THE 2016 
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION THAN 2012.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite low overall voting rates in the 2016 
presidential election, UF saw an increase in student 
voters.
The Bob Graham Center for Public Service re-
leased a campus report comparing the voting rates 
of UF students with students in other public re-
search institutions Friday. The report found nearly 5,000 more UF students came out to vote in the 2016 presidential election than in the 2012 election, a voting rate increase of 3.5 percent.
“I believe that what we’re seeing, especially 
amongst our younger voters, you’re starting to see more and more who are very active and are seek-ing to make a difference and a change,” said Kevin 
Baron, the civic engagement coordinator for the 
Graham Center.
UF’s 2016 voting rate of 64.2 percent surpassed 
the overall voting rate of other public research in-stitutions, which is 51.9 percent.
Baron said the Graham Center helped increase 
voter participation by providing students with free educational materials, hosting debate watch parties and holding public forums.
Students were given nonpartisan guides and in-
formation about registering to vote.
“When you create the space for students in the 
community to feel more involved, they do get more involved, and they become more active, and they turn out to vote,” Baron said.
Baron said one of the biggest obstacles for UF 
students to vote was transportation. He said stu-dents without cars may be discouraged by long bus 
rides or having to walk far off campus to vote.
With the help of UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost, the 
Graham Center provided more than 125 students 
with free transportation to the ofﬁ  ce of the supervi-UF voting rates 
rose in 2016
SEE DAWGS,  PAGE 8SEE CURRY,  PAGE 8 SEE VOTING,  PAGE 8
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
HIGH  84° LOW  57°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 
FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. Apply well 
before the deadline to ensure 
the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more 
information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Beat FSU: Beat Hunger Food 
DriveUF is going head-to-head with Florida State University to see who can collect the most food donations. Student 
Government’s Greek Affairs 
and Finance and Affordability cabinets are partnering with the Field and Fork Pantry for the Beat FSU: Beat Hunger Food Drive, which will be from to-day to Nov. 17. Donations can be dropped off at the SG table in front of the Field and Fork 
Pantry on Tuesday, Friday and 
Nov. 14 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. For a list of items most valuable to those seeking assistance, visit pantry.fieldandfork.ufl.edu/donate/wishlist/. If you have questions or are interested in 
getting involved, email greekaf-
fairs@sg.ufl.edu.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology and 
Nematology building, Room 1031. Meetings are free and open to the public. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Tour of UF Health Heart & 
Vascular and Neuromedicine 
Hospital 
UF Health will give updates re-garding the UF Health Heart & Vascular and Neuromedicine Hospital, located at 1505 SW Archer Road, on Wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. A meal will be provided at each event, followed by a tour of the new hospital after the presenta-tion. Free parking will be avail-able at the new hospital. The event is free and open to the public. Registration is required 
and seating is limited. For more 
information, call 352-265-0373 or visit UFHealth.org/events.  
Stand-up comedy at Rockeys 
Dueling Piano Bar Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, lo-cated at 112 S. Main St., hosts live stand-up comedy and drink 
specials every Wednesday night 
from 9 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. A local comedian will start the show, and open-mic will be available after the main show. The price is $5 per person. 
Three Minute Thesis 
Competition: Final round
The UF Graduate School will 
host the final round of the fourth annual Three Minute Thesis Competition on Thursday at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Chamber Room. The competi-tion challenges doctoral stu-dents to present their disserta-tion to a non-technical audience 
in three minutes or less. The 
competition is open to all inter-ested spectators. For more in-formation, visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt.
Special for veterans at the 
Butterfly RainforestThe Florida Museum of Natural 
History, located at 3215 Hull 
Road, is offering veterans free admission to the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit Friday from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. For a list of valid forms of identification, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/veterans-day-special or call 352-846-2000.
Tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned dancer, everyone is welcome. No experience, partner or spe-cial shoes are required. Just 
bring a thick pair of socks. 
Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., fol-lowed by advanced-level les-sons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Find the UF Argentine Tango Club on Facebook for more details.
‘One Tree, One Planet’ premiere
See art and science merge dur-ing a celebration of biodiversity Nov. 16 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Experience an interac-tive outdoor light projection of the “Tree of Life” by interna-tionally renowned artist Naziha Mestaoui and a Pixar-style ani-mated short film. For more in-formation, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/event/tol or call 352-
846-2000.
Housing fair 
Student Government’s Fall Housing Fair is Nov. 17, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the North Lawn. As the largest hous-ing event at UF, students can 
engage with a wide variety of 
Gainesville community repre-sentatives and gain a better un-derstanding of what off-campus housing communities have to offer. This is the easiest way to get familiar with off-campus liv-ing options, and a great way to stock up on promotional give-
aways. UF resources such as Off 
Campus Life and Student Legal Services will also be on hand to help answer questions. For more information, visit sg.ufl.edu/housingfair.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
Vigil 
The fifth annual Survivors of 
Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Nov. 18 at the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 p.m. with a cer-emony beginning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to 
the public, and refreshments 
will be provided. The vigil will be sponsored by the Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, contact Donna Eckel at ragge-dyds@aol.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 32
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.netChristina Morales / Alligator Staff
Noel Montano takes the stage on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. The 46-year-old has been 
making music for 19 years.
Christina Morales / Alligator Staff
Andrea Orozco from Colombia rides a mechanical bull at the festival. The 29-year-old is studying at the English Language Institute at UF. 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Thousands of Hispanic Gainesville resi-
dents and fans of Latin culture ate empana-das, danced to salsa music and learned more about each other’s cultures Saturday after-noon on Bo Diddley Community Plaza.
Every country south of the U.S. border 
was represented at the 15th annual Down-town Latin Festival, said Olga Garcia, 44, a Hispanic Chamber of Commerce board member. About 3,000 attendees enjoyed food from about 47 different vendors, rep-resenting Cuba, Puerto Rico, Colombia and others, and listened to live music from artists like El Puma Junior, Noel Montano and José Novoa.
Children from the Capoeira Academy of 
Gainesville, which is dedicated to teaching the Afro-Brazilian martial art, carried the ﬂ  ags of each country represented to the tune 
of their national anthem in front of the stage 
to commemorate the individuality of the His-panic culture. People cheered with national pride. To unify the nations, a horse rider car-
ried the American ﬂ  ag in front of the stage. 
Then, the children circled the horse to the U.S. national anthem.
“We’re Hispanic, but we’re not all the 
same,” Garcia said. “It’s possible to be a part 
of a different culture, but still a part of the culture that we’re living in.”
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe gave greet-
ings and ofﬁ  cially opened the festival at 4 p.m.
“You are what (makes) Gainesville so 
amazing,” Poe said. “You make us one 
Gainesville.”
Garcia said the festival offers Hispanics a 
chance to connect with each other.
“You miss what you left at home, so that space where you can eat the food, talk to people in your own language and feel like ‘I 
have a little piece of my culture,’” she said. “It’s like a little oasis.”
There were also various activities for chil-
dren like bounce houses and a mechanical 
bull.
UF organizations like the American In-
stitute of Chemical Engineers, the Society 
of Women Engineers and the American In-stitute of Aeronautics and Astronautics pre-sented children with an opportunity to learn 
more about science, technology, engineering 
and math ﬁ  elds with small experiments as 
part of a Latin STEM Fair, said Samuel Car-bunaru, the president of the Latin STEM Fair.
“A lot of the kids come from immigrant 
families, so they grow up in an environment 
where they don’t really know about the sci-
ence ﬁ  eld, so through this initiative, we try to get kids to sort of develop that interest and passion and realize that science is something 
that’s cool,” the 22-year-old UF biochemistry 
and molecular biology senior said.
Although Nigel Vanegas has lived in New-
berry for the past two years, as a Miami na-
tive, the 34-year-old said he loves attending 
the festival because it reminds him of home.
“Being from Miami is like God-given and 
being in a place full of my people, I love it,” 
Vanegas said. “I was born with a mixture of Hispanics, so it’s nothing different. I just love the atmosphere.”
Vanegas snacked on beef empanadas, 
fried plantains and yucca. As the son of Ni-caraguan immigrants, Vanegas said the only thing that’s missing is his native food.
“I love my food,” Vanegas said.  “They 
don’t have it here but hopefully soon they 
will.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgHispanic organization hosts 15th Downtown Latin Festival4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
THE WINNERS GET THEIR 
NAME ON A PLAQUE IN 
HEAVENER HALL.
By Julia Renner 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chris Frego managed to turn $500,000 
into $5 million over the span of a month 
— with simulated money.
Frego, a 21-year-old UF management 
senior, is the sole trader for the Chris-
tian Business Leaders in the Heavener 
Student Investment Challenge. The chal-lenge pits seven business clubs against each other to see who can make the most money on MarketShare, a stock market simulation. The competition started Sept. 24 and ends Dec. 1.
Frego, who has been trading stocks 
for four years, said Jordan Belfort in the 
movie “The Wolf of Wall Street” inspired 
his strategy. He trades small stocks and makes money off the fluctuating value.
“It’s not a low-risk strategy,” he said. “Over time, I’ve gotten better and better 
at it.”
Cameron Barsoum, a 20-year-old UF 
management junior and president of 
the Student Investment Club, noticed Frego’s hustle.
“We took riskier moves because 
Christian Business Leaders had a really fast start,” Barsoum said.
Andrew Tran, the president of the 
Business Administration College Coun-cil, said the competition helps students prove their industry knowledge. His organization provides the MarketShare program.
“We are the ones who provide the 
support and infrastructure, but they are the ones who drive the vision,” the 20-year-old said.
The winning club gets to join the 
ranks of previous winners by having their club and team members’ names engraved on a plaque in Heavener Hall.
“Twenty years down the line it will 
be really cool to see,” he said.Business clubs compete in 
simulated stock market
By Christian Alfonso
Alligator Contributing Writer
To help with mid-semester stress, the Reitz 
Programming Board will host a painting event 
promoting the importance of mental health. 
“Paint Your Stress Away” will be held Nov. 15 
in the Reitz Union from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., said El-
exa Suarez, the co-director of the RPB Arts Com-
mittee.
This event is the first of its kind for the RPB, 
Suarez said. In the past, the club has created events to focus on physical health, but this year the committee wants to focus on mental health, she said. 
“Students will be cramming and studying for 
all of their exams,” Suarez said. “We want them 
to just take a second to step back and relax.”
At the event, students will receive art supplies 
and listen to live music from local Gainesville art-
ists, Suarez said. The event is free with a Gator 1 Card. 
Jennifer Zedalis, a mental health expert and 
professor at the Levin College of Law, said it’s important for students to express themselves 
through the arts. She said UF is supporting the significance of mental health by promoting activi-
ties outside of schoolwork. 
“Any creative outlook, such as painting and 
music, can de-stress a student,” Zedalis said. 
She said there’s been an increase in the under-
standing of mental health concerns on campuses and having events that cater to mental health is important.
“There are many students on campus that 
are intimidated at the thought of reaching out to health professionals,” Zedalis said. “‘Paint Your 
Stress Away’ is an outlet for students that want 
to receive art therapy but are too scared to speak out.”
Dr. Gizem Toska, the assistant director of out-
reach and consultation at the Counseling & Well-ness Center, located at 3190 Radio Road, said the stigma of seeking help for mental health is an issue on campus, but the painting event may allow students to find relief without feeling like 
a patient.
“Sitting down and engaging in intentional self-
care can rejuvenate your mental health,” Toska 
said. “Research has made it really clear that de-pression and stress levels are increasing in college campuses.”Painting event to bring 
attention to mental health By Lawson Nuland
Alligator Contributing Writer
As children dug through the sand to find 
fossils, others gawked at the open-jawed 
mouths of the sharks on display.
About 1,120 people attended the Florida 
Museum of Natural History’s National Fos-
sil Day celebration Saturday, wrote Kaitlin 
Gardiner, the Florida Museum market-ing and public relations coordinator, in an email. Although National Fossil Day is held in October, the museum held their event later so it could be on a weekend-long event for children, said Catherine Carey, the Flor-ida Museum public programs coordinator.
Nine different fossil societies set up 
booths at the event to teach children and adults about fossils. Those attending got to take home real fossils of their own, like shark teeth, wood and sand dollars. 
“I definitely learned a lot,” said Courtney 
Smith, a 23-year-old UF linguistics doctoral student. “I didn’t realize that they had so many societies that were actually dedicated to finding fossils and doing archaeological 
type digs.”
Almost all the fossils on display were 
found in Florida.Paul Roth, a volunteer with the Florida 
Paleontological Society, said Florida has a 
variety of fossils and creatures.
“(There are) mammoths and mastodons, 
there’s other extinct creatures like the American cheetah, there’s just, there’s a lot of fossils in Florida,” Roth said.
One table had microscopes where at-
tendees could view small fossils. There was also an artist sculpting a miniature version of a mastodon out of clay.
Christine Carney, a third-grade teacher at 
Sherwood Elementary School in Melbourne, Florida, drove to Gainesville to meet family and decided to stop by the event, she said.
While at the event, Carney collected 
small fossils for all 19 of her students. She said she picked up shark teeth, sand dollars and turtle pieces.
“All kinds of nifty things,” the 48-year-
old said.
Carney said she plans to incorporate the 
fossils into her scheduled lesson plan.
“It’s going to be part of my weeklong 
curriculum on fossils, because I have a whole bunch of samples to give to my stu-dents, and I think they’re going to love it,” Carney said.Florida Museum holds belated National Fossil Day
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Ariel Bowman, 28, works on a sculpture of a mastodon at the National Fossil Day event 
at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday. Bowman is a ceramics graduate student who works on sculpting prehistoric creatures.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Jaclyn Hood was 13 years old 
when she first met Thomas Birt. 
She had just started working at 
her uncle’s restaurant, David’s Real 
Pit BBQ, located at 5121 NW 39th Ave. Thomas Birt, known to most as “Tommy,” stopped by almost every day as early as 5 a.m., said Hood, 
now 32. He’d come to pick up trash 
outside for a cup of coffee or piece of bread.
Now, Hood and hundreds of 
others won’t see the 52-year-old homeless man walk his daily route on Northwest 39th Avenue and Northwest 43rd Street. No one will see his familiar face, the peace sign he’d cast high toward the sky or his wide grin. 
Tommy died Thursday night af-
ter being struck by a car at the inter-section of Northwest 39th Avenue and Northwest 48th Terrace. 
Michelle Lisk, 34, was driving 
eastbound on Northwest 39th Ave-nue in her Acura MDX and changed into the right lane as Tommy crossed the street, according to Florida Highway Patrol press release. Lisk crashed into Tommy, and he was 
pronounced dead on scene. FHP 
said it is still investigating the crash.
Lisk could not immediately be reached for comment. 
Although some also called Tom-
my “Chainsaw,” Hood said he hated the nickname. It was clear Tommy had a mental illness and didn’t have a stable home life, but he was always just trying to be funny and make people smile, Hood said. 
“Tommy was just a fixture in 
Gainesville,” she said. “The world’s a slightly less good place without him in it yelling, ‘God bless you’ and waving when you passed him on the side of the road.” 
Tom Dorn remembers Tommy’s 
jokes the most. 
Almost every day since the early 
‘80s, Tommy visited Dorn’s shop, Dorn’s Liquors & Wine Warehouse, located at 4140 NW 16th Blvd. He’d walk in with the same joke almost every time, Dorn said. 
“Hey, guess what? Chicken butt.” Dorn never served him liquor or 
let nearby bars give him any, but shared bits of the store’s cheese and drove him to his brother’s house if 
they ever found him out on the road 
late at night. 
“We watched out for him,” Dorn 
said. “Obviously he had challenges, but all in all one of the nicest, (most) respectful people I’ve known.” 
Brian Hood remembers the sirens 
Thursday night. 
The owner of David’s BBQ was at home near his restaurant when Tommy was hit. He got a call min-utes after the sirens left that Tommy, the man who’d visit his restaurant almost daily since it opened in 1988, had died. 
Brian, 60, said he prays for Lisk, 
who has to live with Tommy’s death for the rest of her life. Tommy should be remembered for his spirit, he said. 
“He was living the Hakuna Mata-
ta life, he had a life of no worries,” he said. “Everything pretty much rolled off.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
A Gainesville fixture: Residents remember Tommy Birt MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 4 
p.m. from now until Wednesday, November 8. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
November 14 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the 
new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Thursday 
November 30 at 3 p.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to 
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Mayor Lauren Poe wants Gainesville to 
look a little more like Rome.
Sipping wine outside a cafe in Rome, Italy, 
Poe watched people ride bikes, lounge on 
benches and catch up with one another.  
“It was the most vibrant, colorful and en-
ergetic street scene I’ve ever seen,” he said. 
The memory of Rome’s dynamic public 
spaces inspired Poe to pick “Happy City” by Charles Montgomery for his third book club meeting. 
On Sunday afternoon, 15 people sat in a 
semicircle inside the Headquarters Branch of the Alachua County Library District, located 
at 401 E. University Ave., with Poe to discuss 
the importance of public spaces in Gainesville. City planners, professors and citizens all con-tributed their thoughts, experiences and sug-gestions to the conversation about building a more citizen-centered city.
“I wanted to create a community-wide con-
versation on topics that I think are important to just building a better community,” Poe said. 
Poe’s ﬁ  rst two book selections focused on 
racial equality and attracted more than 100 participants, he said. Sunday’s discussion was more intimate and focused on the creation of high-quality public spaces that encourage a greater sense of community.
The city is currently undertaking two road 
projects on South Main Street and Southeast 
Fourth Street, which Poe said will create more 
inviting public spaces. Poe also hopes to make Gainesville a member of the Vision Zero Net-work, an international movement that strives to eliminate all serious injuries and fatalities on roadways.
Cooperation between UF and Gainesville 
is key to a strong community, Poe said. He hopes to set this example with a new project 
between Gainesville and UF to create better 
lighting in public spaces, including a citywide transformation to LED lighting, also known as light-emitting diode lighting.
Poe is also considering a “Bring It Out 
Front Night,” where citizens are encouraged to be in their front yard in the evening to build stronger relationships between neighbors.
Gainesville resident Gordon Tapper, 55, 
found the book club was a good opportunity for meaningful civic engagement, he said. 
“If you want to be a part of a happy city, 
you kind of have to step up and participate more actively in activities that are already ex-isting or go to commission meetings and make your voice heard,” Tapper said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgMayor hosts third book club 
By Michele Rosalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County is working on making 
Newnans Lake habitable again — for wildlife and humans.
The county plans to ﬁ  lter water going into 
the lake, which has exceeded allowed levels 
of nitrogen and phosphorus causing algae 
growth and killing off some of the lake’s plants and animals, said Chris Bird, the director of Alachua County’s Environmental Protection department. The Florida Department of En-vironmental Protection classiﬁ  ed the lake as impaired, Bird said.
“You wouldn’t want to swim in it either,” 
he said.
The county’s Environmental Protection de-
partment will start phase two of the Newnans Lake Improvement Initiative in March, Bird said. Using $250,000 in state-awarded funds, the department plans to install barriers to ﬁ  l-ter pollution in Little Hatchet Creek and Gum Root Swamp, which both feed into the lake. The man-made water sources were built in the 1980s and caused signiﬁ  cant pollution.
“We’re really trying to go upstream and ﬁ  g-ure out the best way to place these engineered ﬁ  lters, because we want to prevent pollution from getting into the lake in the ﬁ  rst place,” 
Bird said.
Phase one of the initiative, which began in 
July 2016 and cost $456,000, found the source 
of the pollution its severity, Bird said. 
The county’s Environmental Protection 
department plans to propose a third and ﬁ  nal phase in January that would cost $500,000. Bird said long-term restoration maintenance  will cost millions of dollars and be supple-
mented by a fee on property taxes for Alachua 
County residents beginning in November.
“It’s going to take decades to clean up 
Newnans Lake,” he said. “The state is helping get this started, then it’s up to the county to maintain it.”
Mike Carter, the owner of Kate’s Fish 
Camp located on Newnans Lake, is eager to reopen his business in December after water 
conditions and ﬂ  ooding from Hurricane Irma 
caused him to close for repairs.
“We’ll be back. We live here. This is our 
home,” he said. “You cannot get to the heart of the problem Newnans Lake is facing with-out addressing the pollution.”County to begin cleanup 
at Newnans LakeThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORMoney makes the 
politics go round
Despite the fact former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 
lost the presidential election nearly one year ago to date, President Donald Trump, as well as much of America, is still waiting to see her fall even further.
Controversy over allegations of Clinton rigging the 
presidential primary election in 2016 resurfaced after Politico published an excerpt from Donna Brazile’s forthcoming book. Brazile, the interim chair of the Democratic National Committee, explains in the excerpt the DNC was reliant on money from the Clinton campaign during the primary season. She argues in ex-change for ﬁ  nancial support, the Clinton campaign was granted unusual control over important decisions made within the DNC.
As expected, people on either side of the political spectrum 
are enraged, saddened and frustrated at the argument Brazile has 
put forward. Conservatives and Trump supporters, of course, are 
once again shouting their rallying cry with pride, “Lock her up! Lock her up!” On the other side of things, many liberals are dis-appointed at the threat this allegation puts on democracy and disappointed at the unfair advantage Clinton may have had over Sen. Bernie Sanders.
If the Clinton campaign actually did rig the presidential pri-
mary (as Brazile implies), do our votes really matter at all? What is the point of a free country, where we have the right to vote, 
if those with the most money are ultimately able to control the 
outcome? These are the types of questions running through the minds of many disgruntled liberals at the moment.
The idea of a rigged primary solidiﬁ  es for many the possible 
reality behind a corrupt government. It can easily make people question whether we really do live in a free country or if every-thing is actually controlled by the ones with the most money.
We agree the idea the primary could have been rigged is deﬁ  -
nitely disheartening, but we can’t say the Clinton campaign’s mo-
nopoly over the DNC is really all that unfair. Although we hate 
to admit it, politics in the U.S., and across the world, is mainly controlled by money.
According to The Washington Post, 91 percent of the time the 
political candidates who are better ﬁ  nanced in an election will come out on top. The phenomenon that those who have the most money end up having the most control isn’t exactly new informa-tion. For some reason, we are acting like it is.
Are we expected to believe no other politician in history has 
used their wealth to their advantage? Are we expected to believe, had Trump been put in the same position with the Republican National Convention, he wouldn’t have acted the same exact way? Are we expected to ignore the fact male politicians have been doing things like this for years, and no one has given it a second thought? We think not.
We can agree the Clinton campaign may have had an unfair 
advantage over the Sanders campaign. However, we cannot say we think this advantage could have changed how the election 
would have panned out. At the end of the day, America voted the 
way it did, regardless of which candidate the DNC supported and how much money the Clinton campaign gave to the convention.
The notion the Clintons somehow rigged the campaign is, in 
our opinion, ridiculous. The only difference between the ﬁ  nancial backing the Clintons provided to the DNC and the many other ﬁ  nancial extortion cases in politics is that someone wrote a book about this, and Trump supporters want to see Clinton fall from grace with her still loyal supporters.
When it comes down to it, Clinton did everything in her 
power to see her campaign succeed, the same way any politician would have done. Insinuating she used her ﬁ  nancial graces to rig the primary is, to us, an insult to the dedication she put in her campaign. A quick note before we begin: I am by no 
means a professional in self-help prac-tices nor do I consider myself an expert in mindfulness. Heck, I’m writing this column during my “me time” in be-
tween doing my laundry, mentally organizing tomorrow’s agenda and trying to remember the date of my next exam. That aside, I’m going to write this as a message to myself — and anyone else who might need this reminder — about the importance of carving out space and time for oneself each week.
First things ﬁ  rst, you might ask yourself, “Why is this 
‘me time’ stuff important at all? Isn’t that what sleep is for?” On my busier weeks, the thought certainly crosses my mind; I want to ﬁ  nish all my work and surround my-self with friends and activities and crash whenever the exhaustion hits. But even for a slight extrovert like my-self, I’ve begun to recognize how being alone can help recharge and rejuvenate me.
When we spend time alone, we allow ourselves to col-
lect our thoughts from throughout the day and then ei-ther act on them or release them — it’s like taking mental breaths. I’ve noticed how even taking a 10-minute break at some point during the day, just to make to-do lists, read the news or jot something down in my journal, keeps me more focused later on. When I feel particularly stressed in the midst of exams and deadlines, these breaks become even more impactful. I have found taking care of my men-tal health in turn nurtures my productive and creative sides.
Small breaks can be crucial, but I think it’s even more 
important to set aside a little more time than we think we need each day to recollect. There are so many ways to give yourself some time and space that ﬁ  ts within the busy bustle of your day: a 15-minute power nap and some light reading, a brisk jog before a nighttime meeting or a solitary grocery-shopping excursion before the hustle of the week begins. OK, so the groceries thing could just be me, but I’ve found that a brief trip to Lucky’s Market after my last class of the day completely brightens my day, even if all I buy is a loaf of bread and eggs.
Both shorter and longer breathers during 
your week can be a time to foster your artistic or musical passions. You can ﬁ  nally crack open that book you’ve been meaning to get to all se-mester or even just watch an episode of your fa-
vorite show on Netﬂ  ix. Do what makes you feel happy and relaxed, and try not to let your obligations weigh heavy in the process. Real-life duties are important, yes, but if you don’t feel 100 percent, it might be worth setting aside a spare 10 to 20 minutes for yourself (and yourself only).
On the more traditional side of mindfulness, I’ve en-
joyed different meditation apps on my smartphone that can help guide your meditative practice or simply give you a great way to zone out for a few minutes. One of my favorites, called Calm, provides different recorded guided meditations that can be as short as a couple minutes. Apps like Calm make it easier for even an over-thinker like me to release anxieties and stressors, and they’ve even helped me fall asleep through nighttime meditations.
On the whole, we can’t do well if we don’t feel well. 
There are times when perhaps we ought to power through our obligations and sleep later, yes, but we shouldn’t for-get we must also prioritize ourselves. At the end of the day, we’re all just human beings struggling to make dead-lines while remembering to ﬂ  oss. We’re people with pas-sions, interests, loves, responsibilities and struggles. Why not try to create even just a little bubble of “me time” each week for what keeps us going: our bodies and ourselves?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
The need (and struggle) to make time for yourself
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
When was the last time you asked 
someone how they were doing and really meant it?
Sometimes, being a friend who's 
there to listen makes the difference.
The permanent funding for more counsel-
ors at the Counseling & Wellness Center is a victory. According to the Healthy Minds Net-work, which does research on adolescent and young adult mental health, without treatment, 30 percent of depressed college students will drop out of school. But with treatment, 6 per-cent of the dropouts can be averted.
Mental health is part of much larger issues 
on campus. Students burn themselves out or feel unsupported. The simple yet undeniable lack of time to just be college students can be difﬁ  cult, too. And when I say, “be college stu-dents,” I don’t mean going to parties — I mean being able to hang out with friends or con-template life without having every last minute ﬁ  lled by studying or extracurricular activities.
I’m probably not the best person to be giv-ing advice on this subject — I’ve committed myself to a lot of things, and I’ve exhausted myself helping organizations that don’t welcome me. But in doing so, I’ve seen a lot 
of people who say they care but 
then don’t listen to what I’m saying. It becomes clear they’re not inter-ested in how I’m doing.
It’s easy to push things off or 
minimize them, thinking you’re the only one who feels this way or that it will just be this semester that’s so difﬁ  cult. I’ll say, “I’m good, what about you?” in an attempt to avoid 
the awkwardness that comes with admitting 
you’re actually not doing well at all.
Step back, take care of yourself. But most 
importantly, create an environment that’s wel-coming to others. Creating a culture of care is hard, but it’s deﬁ  nitely not accomplished through creating a facade of friendliness.
It’s asking, “How are you doing?” and 
meaning it. It’s not telling someone they’re be-ing negative when they are being honest. It’s unquantiﬁ  able.
We are in an environment 
where we are encouraged to push ourselves to the brink. Feeling 
stretched thin is the norm, and it’s 
an unhealthy approach to college. It seems if you’re not tired, you’re not doing college right. People brag about how many times they’ve spent the night in Marston Science 
Library or how they’re studying for three back-to-back exams, all while immersing themselves in extracurricular activities and opportunities 
to further their careers. Instead, we should be 
helping our friends take care of themselves and applauding them for making their self-care a priority.
The CWC is important, but so is taking care 
of the mental health stigma and knowing when to step back from commitments. 
Creating a culture of care starts with us. 
When it’s not truly genuine it becomes patent-ly obvious. Yes, we’re all college students, and many of us are facing similar difﬁ  culties, but it doesn’t hurt to also reach out to people even if it’s just to be a person to vent to.
I do hope with the new CWC resources it 
won’t take weeks to get an appointment. Stu-dents should be able to get the help they need.
It’s disgusting to me that some people in 
Student Government prioritized their poli-tics over students’ mental health. Counseling should be something available to all students, but we also have to do our part to help our fellow students to not be overwhelmed. It can feel like we have no inﬂ  uence over anything 
because we’re students, but we can do our 
part. Ultimately, it starts with care and concern for each other. Be ready to listen to someone who’s having a rough week, semester or year.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
Our lives are based around two 
things: circumstance and decisions. Circumstance is everything you can’t control. This is your privilege or your lack thereof. This is the stuff 
that just happens to you. Were you in the right place at the right time? Circumstance. Then, the rest of your life is made up of deci-sions. This is everything you actively do. Did you work really hard or not hard enough? Did you take that risk or let it slip through your ﬁ  ngers? These are both decisions.
I realize just about everything that occurs 
to us or around us can be placed into one of 
these two categories. Where life takes us is a 
delicate cocktail of these two concepts, and any variation in any aspect of it would take us somewhere different than where we are.
Whether large or small, everything that 
happens to us matters. However, in order to be happy and feel fulﬁ  lled in our lives, we have to be able to distin-guish between circumstances and decisions. The decisions we make are incredibly important, and we 
cannot pretend this is not the case. 
Yet life is incredibly frustrating in that a substantial amount of it is entirely out of our control. Enter circumstance. Although our lives are our lives, we cannot control circumstance. Our only control is how we respond to it. Enter decisions. In col-lege, we are just learning how to function as 
people. Functioning, while it seems like the 
bare minimum, is quite a tall order. We mini-mize this as we shoot for the stars and do all we can to achieve our potential and change the world. While we shouldn’t stop shoot-ing for the stars and changing the world, we should take a moment, every once in a while, to focus on this bare minimum.
Within each of these catego-
ries, we ﬁ  nd past and future. Past 
circumstance and future circum-
stance, past decisions and future decisions. Of all of these, if we start the clock right now, we only have control over one of these. We can control our future decisions. That is it. This is quite a lot to take 
on. However, it is only a fraction of our lives. The rest have either already happened or are 
out of our control.
When the world seems to be crashing 
down around you and you feel out of con-
trol, remember you do have full control over some things. And when the world is crash-ing down around you and you feel weighed down by how much you have to concern yourself with, remember you truly only have control over future decisions. The rest, while it can still cause signiﬁ  cant distress, is not in your realm. I realize you can’t just turn 
worry off, but you can release some.
So, as the semester comes to an end, and 
as your world (and the world in general, let’s 
be honest) may seem like it’s crashing down around you, remember your power. Your power is massive and awe-inspiring, but it does not include your past or your circum-stance. The sooner we accept this, the soon-er we can seize our potential and get to work 
on what we can control.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.Creating a better world starts with a culture of caring
Circumstance and decision: We can only change the futureColumn
Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
out in the future, but Youssef intends on 
hiring employees within the next week or so, she said. Otherwise, Youssef runs Gator Dawgs entirely on her own.
It took Youssef six months to save the 
$7,000 to $10,000 she needed to start her business, she said. 
She said she was inspired by her father, 
who moved her family from Lebanon to the 
U.S. in 2000 with barely anything and now 
owns an appliance and furniture store in Jacksonville. 
“I honestly just feel amazing that I actu-ally own something,” she said. “My father 
actually came to America with $500 in his 
pocket.”
Before opening the stand, Youssef 
walked through Marston Science Library and asked students if they would eat maca-roni and cheese on a hot dog.
“What do you want when you’re drunk?” 
she said. “You want carbs, and you want more carbs.” 
On Thursday night, Hamish Pierpont, an 
18-year-old UF materials science and engi-neering freshman, ordered a “Mac Daddy” with bacon.
“It’s a pretty quality dog if I do say so 
myself,” he said. “I might just get another one.” 
Pierpont heard about the stand from 
meeting Youssef on Turlington Plaza.
“She shouted ‘free drugs’ at (me and a 
friend),” he said. “And then she said, ‘Now that I have your attention, I have free candy over here.’” 
At about 12:45 a.m. Friday, the stand 
sold its 80th and ﬁ  nal hot dog of the night. Youssef said she hopes her stand, which is 
steps away from Italian Gator Pizza by the 
Slice, will become a Midtown institution. 
“I want it to be just like Pizza by the 
Slice,” she said. “I want it to become the foundation where my kids can come.”DAWGS,  from pg. 1The hot dogs cost between $2.75 and $5.50 
Plain Jane
Build Your Own
Mac Daddy Dawg
Steak Dawg
Guac Dawg 
BBQ Bacon Dawg 
Pizza Dawg
Hawaiian Dawg
Chili Cheese Dawg 
Yum Yum Dawg
THE SIGN COST $1,500.
By Courtney Mims
Alligator Contributing Writer
Brushing away tears, Ronna Jackson felt happy 
people remembered veterans like her son.
On Saturday morning, Jackson, who lost her 
son John Reiners in Afghanistan in 2010, looked around at the about 60 people who attended an un-
veiling of a Blue Star Memorial Marker at Veterans 
Memorial Park, located at 7400 SW 41st Place, and said her son would be gratiﬁ  ed to see the memorial and its unveiling ceremony.
“He would be honored,” Jackson said. “He 
would be very proud, he truly would be.”
Veterans and their family members watched 
as a brown burlap covering came off the 7-foot-6-inch-tall sign, which was adorned with a wreath of 
white ﬂ  owers. Gainesville Garden Club Inc. paid 
$1,500 for the sign.
The Blue Star Memorial Marker Program, an 
initiative by the National Garden Clubs Inc., is a tribute to men and women who have served in the 
U.S. armed forces. The memorial in Veterans Me-
morial Park is the third in Alachua County.
Fran Maris, the president of the Gainesville 
chapter of the national garden club, said she looks forward to how visible the sign will be in the popu-lar park.
“Kids come here, adults come here, veterans 
come here, regular people come here,” she said. “We can show our appreciation for our veterans by 
putting it here in a place that is very visible.”
At the foot of the sign, ﬂ  owers such as blue daze, 
red fountain grass, blue plumbagos and white pen-
tas grow, showcasing red, white and blue.
Like other mothers, Jackson said she feels grate-
ful for veterans’ service and hopes the sign express-es appreciation for those like her son.
“Without our veterans, we don’t have the free-
dom to even get up in our own homes without the 
worry of being bombed or shot at,” Jackson said. 
“We owe everything to our veterans, and this is just one more way of showing honor and tributing them.”Veteran memorial unveiled 
Courtney Mims / Alligator Contributor
A Blue Star Memorial Marker was unveiled at Veterans Memorial Park, located at 7400 SW 
41st Place, on Saturday morning. It’s the third memorial marker in Alachua County.
sor of elections during the early voting 
period.
Baron said a larger population of 
students would have the opportunity to vote if UF and other campuses were al-
lowed to be early voting locations.
Baron and the ambassadors of the 
Andrew Goodman Foundation are in the 
early stages of amending a law that pro-hibits college campuses from being early voting locations, he said.
Megan Newsome, the team leader for 
the Vote Everywhere ambassadors, said the bill needs to be co-sponsored for it 
to be pushed in the upcoming legislative 
session.
“We have reached out to a few rep-resentatives to get that sponsor, and we have surprisingly less backlash than we would’ve thought,” the 21-year-old said. “I think we’ll be able to convince repre-sentatives that this is a common sense change to help the voters the most.”
Newsome, a UF astronomy and as-
trophysics senior, said the amendment is something simple but has a large impact on who comes out to vote.
“It’s one of those things that’s hon-
estly a really small change in terms of wording and how it’s addressed, but has such huge impact,” she said. “It’ll enable hundreds of thousands of student voters 
across the state to have great accessibil-
ity to the polls.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgVOTING,  from pg. 1A report was released Friday
VOTING INFO
• UF 2016 voting rate: 64.2 percent
• UF had a voting rate increase of 3.5 percent from 2012
• Public research institution voting rate: 51.9 percent
• About 5,000 more students came out to vote in 2016 than in 2012. 
• College students nationwide voted more in 2016 than 2012 (from 45 
percent in 2012 to 49 percent in 2016).
• The younger population outvoted older generations in 2016, casting 69.6 
million votes of 137.5 million total votes.
not knowing what was going on.”
A few minutes later, Curry came out 
from backstage and walked around the ballroom saying hello and high-ﬁ  ving people at the concert, Newsome said.
Douglas said the Reitz Union staff 
spoke to Curry’s agent and manager about how he would interact with the crowd beforehand and discouraged him from crowd surﬁ  ng, but Curry did it any-way. 
“We are very disappointed that our 
talent decided to jump the stage and crowd surf, as you would say,” Douglas 
said. 
Douglas said one of the two speak-
ers, which were located behind the bar-
ricade to protect attendees, did become unsteady at some point, but the Reitz Union staff was able to catch it before it hit the ground.
The Reitz Union staff received a re-
port for one injury during the event — 
a girl received ﬁ  rst aid for a scratch on 
her arm — but it was not a result of the speaker falling or Curry crowd surﬁ  ng, 
Douglas said.
After confusion about what hit the 
speaker, Curry tweeted from his ofﬁ  cial 
account, “I didn’t hit a speaker the barri-cades did but UF was fun” at 11:34 p.m. Friday. 
When Newsome, who is 5 feet 1 inch 
tall, was in the front of the stage jumping around, she said she got elbowed a few times and lost her breath, so she backed away and enjoyed the rest of the concert 
from a safe distance. 
Although Newsome said she under-
stands the Reitz Union couldn’t have 
planned for the energy of the crowd, she believes they could have done a better job securing the speakers on what she described as “not too sturdy” tripods.
“The problem was either a too rowdy 
of a crowd, a poorly put together stage 
or both,” Newsome said. “On one hand, 
it was unforeseen, the excitement of the crowd, but it is kind of embarrassing we didn’t prepare better.” 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgCURRY,  from pg. 1The concert was 30 minutesMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
More than 300 guests were in attendance at the Vietnamese Student Organization’s annual Mid-Autumn Festival cultural show, T et Trung Thu, Sunday 
evening at the Reitz Union. Student performances included traditional dance, modern dance and contemporary musical covers.
Above Left:  Vertax, a Chinese yo-yo group, performs at the cultural show.
Above Right:  The cultural show ended with a performance by Vietnamese 
Student Organization Modern. The theme of the entire evening was “coming full circle, ” with an emphasis on family and giving back. 
Left: Vietnamese Student Organization Traditional performs the first dance of 
the evening, a traditional umbrella dance. 
Below:  Alpha Kappa Delta Phi Sorority members perform a song compilation 
cover at the cultural show Sunday evening.
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
THE EXPERIMENTS WERE ALL 
LED BY FEMALE SCIENTISTS.
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cora, a 5-year-old Girl Scout, said she 
wants to be a scientist when she grows up.
“The snake one,” she said.
On Sunday, Cora gently pet a red-tailed 
boa constrictor at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull 
Road. More than 150 eager Girl Scouts, troop leaders and parents in the com-
munity attended the “She’s a Scientist!” 
program to engage in hands-on learning, explore different science exhibits and meet 
female scientists. 
It was the program’s ﬁ  fth year, said 
program organizer and Florida Museum educator Chelsea Collison. 
“We offer this program to give Girl 
Scouts in our area a chance to meet some role models that are female scientists,” 
Collison said. “We’re trying to break that misconception that a scientist has to be a man in a lab coat.”
Each exhibit was led by a female scien-
tist from one of 10 groups from the muse-
um, outside organizations and UF, includ-
ing UF’s departments of Entomology and Nematology, Biology and Astronomy.
The girls will receive a patch for at-
tending the event to put on the back of their vest or sash, Collison said. The patch 
shows a yellow beaker that reads, “She’s 
a Scientist?!” 
Collison said the program was catered 
toward Brownies and Junior Girl Scouts, 
which ranges from second grade to ﬁ  fth 
grade but welcomed anyone who wanted 
to attend.
The leader of Girl Scout Troop 363, 
Alix Shunick, 43, attended the program for the ﬁ  rst time with four girls in her troop. 
She thought it was a good use of UF’s re-sources. 
“I want to make sure that (girls) are 
exposed to anything and everything that they may want to get into in the future,” 
Shunick said. “That they don’t have any 
limitations on them and that they can just keep shooting for the stars.”By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
U.S. Navy veteran Robert Gillespie, with 
his 9-year-old son Garret on his back, prepared 
to ride alongside an army of fellow bikers Sun-
day morning and couldn’t shake the feeling of home. 
“The camaraderie here — it’s kind of like 
being in the service,” Gillespie, who served 
from 1993 to 2005, said. “You can walk up 
to anyone here and ask what they’re doing, where they’ve been.” 
Gillespie, 40, and more than 500 bikers hit 
the pavement side by side Sunday morning as part of the Gainesville Harley-Davidson deal-ership’s fourth annual Bikers on Parade char-ity event for local veterans. 
The dealership, located at 4125 NW 97th 
Blvd., raised about $10,000 for 10 Can, Inc., a Newberry-based nonproﬁ  t that organizes out-door events for Alachua County veterans, ﬁ  rst responders and their families, said Gainesville 
Harley-Davidson marketing director Emilee 
MacDonald.
At 11 a.m. in the Santa Fe College parking 
lot, kickstands went up. The rumble of half a thousand revving engines echoed off the pave-
ment.
The caravan, escorted by Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies, drove to an after-par-
ty at Gainesville Raceway, located at 11211 N. County Road 225. Each biker paid a $20 to $30 
donation to ride. 
Gary Hall donned a 4-by-6 U.S. ﬂ  ag on his 
Honda Gold Wing, and his wife, Joann, rode a 
Honda VTX 1300. Supporting the troops is an 
honor for them, Gary, 48, said.
“I’d pay the $20 even if I couldn’t ride,” 
he said. “If we don’t support our veterans, we 
lose out on our freedom. They’re ﬁ  ghting for us, that’s what a lot of people don’t under-
stand.” 
Carlos Diez, a 49-year-old UF Health em-
ployee, brought his 9-year-old son Alvaro on 
the bike ride to teach him the importance of 
helping others unconditionally, he said.
“It’s more than just a bike ride,” Carlos said 
of the event. “It’s about helping others who 
are there for you and just doing it without ask-
ing who, what or when.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Florida Museum holds annual 
science exhibit for Girl ScoutsMore than 500 bikers ride 
across Gainesville for veterans
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: UF student arrested for 
threatening ex-girlfriend over text
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested Friday night af-
ter texting his ex-girlfriend threats and show-
ing up at her apartment, Gainesville Police said.
Calvin Ming Leung 
Yeung, 20, sent texts threatening physical harm to himself and his ex-girl-
friend, saying he wanted to rape her so he could “own” her again, accord-ing to an arrest report.
The ex-girlfriend told 
police she received texts 
from Yeung throughout the day starting at 8 a.m. and was scared he would act on his threats, according to the report. She showed the texts to Yeung’s roommate, who advised her to leave her apartment.
Yeung went to her apartment after she had 
left and let himself inside, police said. He did not let her know he was coming over, accord-ing to the report.
Within two minutes of being in the apart-
ment he realized the victim was not there but stayed to wait for her, he told police after his arrest.
As Yeung left the apartment, police saw 
him and arrested him on charges of aggra-vated stalking and writing a threat to kill or injure.
Yeung is a UF student, according to the 
student directory.
He was taken to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $100,000 bond.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
FHP: Man arrested for driving 
drunk, overturns car
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was hospitalized fol-
lowing a car crash and was arrested for driv-
ing drunk Friday, Florida Highway Patrol said.
Paul Nelson Misleh, 66, 
was taken out of his over-turned white Chrysler PT Cruiser on the shoulder of State Road 235 with the help of an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputy and taken to North Florida Regional Medical Center at about 8:40 p.m., ac-
cording to an arrest report. A FHP patrolman saw an empty Budweiser beer bottle and ﬁ  ve unopened Bud Light beer bottles in the car. Spilled ice from a cooler in the car covered the beers.
About an hour and a half after the crash, 
the patrolman went to the medical center and saw Misleh walking away from the hospital’s entrance with the help of someone else, the patrolman said.
“I’m going to jail,” Misleh said, when the 
patrolman introduced himself, according to the report. 
Misleh told the patrolman he had gone to 
a party and didn’t remember the crash, FHP said.
The patrolman smelled alcohol on Misleh’s 
breath and noticed he had a staggered walk and was using a wall to keep his balance, ac-
cording to the report. Misleh also slurred his 
words, FHP said.
Misleh was arrested for driving under the 
inﬂ  uence and taken to the Alachua County Jail. He was released on his own recognizance Saturday at noon.
Misleh could not be reached for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
GPD: Target employee arrested for 
stealing co-workers’ credit cards
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Target employee was arrested Friday for 
stealing co-workers’ credit cards and using them to make purchases at Target and Publix, 
Gainesville Police said.
Desiree Renee Celeste 
Shirley, 24, took the cards 
while in the break room for employees at Target, located at 3970 SW Ar-cher Road, according to an arrest report. The break room is where Target em-ployees store their belong-ings during work.
Shirley took a Capital One Visa credit card 
sometime between Oct. 21 and Oct. 23 from a co-worker’s purse and tried to use it to buy more than $300 worth of gift cards Oct. 23, but the purchase was declined, according to the report.
Shirley took at least two other credit cards 
from the break room and used the cards to purchase or try to purchase gift cards from Target and Publix, according to the report. 
Police said she used planning, effort and ex-
perience to take the cards and make purchas-es quickly and nearby before the cards were reported stolen or shut off.
GPD arrested Shirley on charges of grand 
theft, scheming to defraud and obtain proper-ty and fraudulent use of credit cards at about 5:30 p.m. Friday. She was taken to the Ala-chua County Jail where she was released on 
her own recognizance Saturday at noon.
Shirley declined to comment on the inci-
dent.@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
By Olivia Sagner
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dr. Michael Okun was surprised at how so-
phisticated Reddit users’ questions on Parkin-
son’s disease were.
Okun, the chair of the UF neurology depart-
ment, held an “Ask me anything” forum on Reddit, a popular online message board, about Parkinson’s disease Friday. Okun was asked more than 27 questions, and he answered al-most all of them, he said.
Two other UF faculty members before 
Okun held an “Ask me anything” forum this year, but Okun was the ﬁ  rst UF neurology doc-tor to participate, wrote Ashwin Manicka, a Reddit communications associate, in an email.Okun said he was thrilled to dedicate his 
time to inform people about Parkinson’s dis-ease. He said he enjoyed teaching people about the disease through a social media platform.
“It’s time for us to really start to embrace 
social media and educate people about Parkin-son’s,” he said.
Todd Taylor, the assistant director of com-
munications at the McKnight Brain Institute, said he sat in on the hourlong session in Okun’s ofﬁ  ce. Taylor said there is almost no question Okun can’t answer about Parkinson’s.
He said Okun’s character as a doctor was 
revealed by the time he dedicated to the Reddit users and his desire to make a difference.
“Okun is changing lives,” Taylor said. “The 
work he is doing is really improving the lives of people and giving them a better life.”UF researcher holds Reddit AMA about Parkinson’s diseaseYeung
Misleh
Shirley
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
Queen-size hide-a-bed sofa, salmon color, 
good shape $250; 2 living room chairs, mauve, swivel $50/ea; used wooden student desk, mahogany color, 62x23x30" w/7 draw-ers $100; black desk chair on rollers $25. Call Ron 352-843-8998    11-8-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-
mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6. 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
CERTIFIED PART TIMELIFE GUARDS NEEDEDThe 300 Club Tennis and SwimConveniently located to campus    11-8-17-3-14
JOB FAIR! Nov 7-8, 2-4pm
GAOTR BTW - G'ville's newest premier din-
ing experience - Burgers + Tacos + Wings. 
1404 W University Ave. Across from Gator 
Wesley Foundation. For more info: 352-362-
9677, nickhurricanebtw@gmail.com    11-8-
14-3-14
Oak Hall School hiring for 2018-19
Academic Dean(PreSchool-12 th grade) and 
Head of Lower School (PreSchool-Grade 5) 
Respond to: tedling@schoolstrat.com    11-
13-17-5-14
1. Who holds the major-league 
record for most home runs by a rookie 
shortstop? 
2. In a 2016 game, each member of 
the Cleveland Indians starting infield 
hit a home run. The last time the Indi-ans did that was 1941. Name two of the four infielders who did it then.
3. In the history of the Rams fran-
chise, three running backs gained 1,000 or more yards in their rookie 
season. Name two of them.
4. Which Big 12 Conference rival 
ended the Kansas men’s basketball 
team’s 51-game winning streak at Allen Fieldhouse in 2017?
5. The first round of the 2017 Stan-
ley Cup playoffs set a record for most 
overtime games in NHL history. How 
many?
6. The U.S. set a record for over -
all medal count at a non-boycotted Olympics with 121 at the 2016 Sum-mer Olympics. At what Olympics did the U.S. set its previous best?
7. Who was the last men’s golfer to 
win back-to-back U.S. Opens?
Answers
1. Boston’s Nomar Garciaparra, 
with 30 in 1997.
2. Hal Trosky, Ray Mack, Lou Bou-
dreau and Ken Keltner.
3. Eric Dickerson (1983), Jerome 
Bettis (1993) and Todd Gurley (2015).
4. Iowa State.5. Eighteen overtime games.6. The U.S. won 110 medals in the 
2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.
7. Curtis Strange, in 1988-89.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 6, 2017King Features Weekly Service
1.  Shaky
1.  Weeping ____5.  Split
2.  Obvious, brazen6.  Be of use
3.  ____ Islands7.  Dull
4.  Assortment BYWLBO
OWLWILVEEAL
AIALV
TANTLBA
RALEDWEDGTYSO
YEMEDLANSWERS: 1A-Wobbly  5A-Leave  6A-Avail  7A-Stodgy
1D-Willow  2D-Blatant  3D-Leeward  4D-Medley  B-Volleyball11-6-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This has been an official Summer 
Olympics sport since 1964.
BONUS
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       11-17-17-6-14
PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place
Experience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 
352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience 
preferred. Must have director's credential. 
Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
Designated drivers are the greatestAffordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     12-6-14-21Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACROSS
1 Draw forth
6 Vitello __
parmigiana:
ristorante offering
10 Map out
14 Jeans material15 Porky Pig or
Elmer Fudd
16 Hawaiian dance
17 *Degree earner’s
celebration
20 “Life of Pi” author
__ Martel
21 Cookie
containers
22 Fields of study
23 Off base sans
permission, in the
mil.
25 Italian volcano27 *Math student’s
pad
31 Big galoots35 Vermouth bottle
name
36 Dazed and
confused
38 “Lost” network39 Pop’s pop ... or,
divided into threeparts, what the
answers to
starred clueshave in common
42 Foe of Chiang
43 ’40s coat-and-
trousers outfit
45 Quickly looks over47 Jazz legend
James
48 *Lawn repair
piece
51 Dick Tracy’s love
__ Trueheart
53 Thin stream of
smoke
54 Is __: likely will
57 Many a freshman
59 Triangle ratio
63 *More promising
job, say
66 Crowd sound67 Casting-off place68 The John B, e.g.
69 Requests
70 Tarzan raisers
71 Coin with Lincoln
DOWN
1 Like avant-garde
art
2 Aloe __3 __ empty
stomach4 Snatches for
ransom
5 Flightless Aussie
bird
6 Number one 
Hun
7 Pork cut
8 Bit of unfinished
business
9 Cape NNW of
Cod
10 Exodus tyrant11 Attract12 Opposite of baja13 Those opposed18 Perched on
19 Searing utensil
24 Taylor and
Fillmore,politically
26 Ensnare
27 Enjoy the field, as
cattle do
28 Automaton29 Neckwear for
Fred in “Scooby-Doo”
30 Ship of 149232 Set one’s sights
on
33 Swiss coin
34 Trudge through
water
37 Hornets and
yellow jackets40 Persians on the
floor
41 Local landing
location
44 Ragged clothes46 Time-release
med
49 Takes an oath
50 Reasons to
repent
52 Waiting time at
the DMV,seemingly54 Taj Mahal city55 Golf instructors
56 Shipbuilding
wood
58 Sport with
swords
60 Cold War curtain
material?
61 Bright sign62 Catch sight of
64 UV index
monitor: Abbr.
65 Sugar amt.
By Brian Thomas©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/06/1711/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 It features
remotely
controlled utilities
10 Blue Moon of
’60s-’70sbaseball
14 One who fits
perfectly
15 Your, of yore16 Consequences of
compliments
17 Seashore birds18 Oscar Wilde, e.g.19 Bud20 Biscotti bits22 Lane of
“Unfaithful”
24 Sunny25 Without question27 Expo display29 Deli option30 Action film scene31 Works out33 Hair piece34 Lines at
departmentstores
35 Blanc, e.g.36 Online place for
handmade goods
38 Vexes39 Bustle40 Koi __41 In a romantic
fashion, lighting-wise
42 “Grey’s Anatomy”
star Ellen
44 Running legend
46 Rabbit danglers
48 2015 World Golf
Award winner forGolf CourseDesigner of theYear
49 Ended a standing
ovation
52 Light __53 Crowdfunding
website
56 Focus quartet57 Disorderly places58 “Vous __ ici”59 Bar item
DOWN
1 Eurasian duck2 Star followers3 Loads4 Gray
5 Sprint 
competitor
6 “Woo-hoo!”
7 Can’t stop eating,
as snack food
8 Bumped into
9 Animated queen
of Arendelle
10 Laura’s classic
cry on “The DickVan Dyke Show”
11 Restaurant
freebie
12 Sale limit
13 Private dining
rooms?
15 Playing speeds21 Sweetener units
22 Like late twilight
23 Facebook 
co-founder
Saverin
25 “I’ve had
enough!”
26 Program that
holds you up?
28 Palindromic
supermodel
30 Easy-to-please
companion
31 Grunt32 Mosque 
leaders
34 Condescend
37 Sticks a fork in
38 Root widely used
in traditional
Chinese
medicine
41 Remove from an
exchange
43 Barre bends
45 United with47 Formal
addressees
49 Player who failed
to lead theleague in all
three seasons in
which he hit 60+
home runs
50 CIA operatives
51 Scrap
54 Casual denial
55 Holder of locks
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/04/1711/04/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, November 4, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesGators guard Jalen Hudson 
scored a team-high 18 points in a preseason win over T ampa on Sunday. Read the recap, pg. 15.Gators player suggests Buccaneers cancel season
UF long snapper Brett DioGuardi vented his frustrations with the T ampa 
Bay Buccaneers on Twitter during their 30-10 loss to the New Orleans Saints on Sunday: "Cancel the rest of the season please ... @TBBuccaneers, " he wrote. Six people liked it. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
One week after the ﬁ  ring of their coach 
and a demoralizing defeat against No. 1 
Georgia, Florida fans waited to see how the 
Gators would respond. On Saturday against 
Missouri, UF’s response was so heinous that interim coach Randy Shannon condemned it like a school-wide scandal.
“Today’s game wasn’t representative of 
the University of Florida,” Shannon said af-ter his ﬁ  rst game in charge of the Gators (3-5, 
3-4 SEC).
In Columbia, Missouri, Florida’s on-ﬁ  eld 
product mirrored its off-ﬁ  eld tension lead-
ing into the team’s ﬁ  rst game without former coach Jim McElwain, a game that saw the 
Tigers roll over UF, 45-16.
With Shannon in charge, even a change 
at the quarterback position — starting trans-
fer Malik Zaire instead of redshirt freshman 
Feleipe Franks — didn’t lead to a change 
in the outcome for Florida. UF dropped its fourth consecutive conference game, this time to a team that hadn’t won an SEC  
matchup all season heading into Saturday.
Missouri (4-5, 1-4 SEC) looked unstoppa-
ble on Faurot Field, racking up 455 yards of 
offense on a Gators defense that had always 
been the team’s biggest strength. Florida 
was at the mercy of Tigers quarterback Drew Lock who, aside from an opening-drive in-terception, completed 15 of 20 passes for 228 
yards and three touchdowns.
Gators linebacker David Reese said he 
didn’t see the result coming.
“I’m surprised,” Reese said. “We knew 
what we needed to do and we still didn’t ac-complish it. It’s upsetting, but it’s something 
to learn from going on.”Florida will have to learn from Saturday’s 
mistakes — penalties in the red zone, mental errors on special teams, a lack of effort on defense — quickly if it wants to avoid anoth-
er embarrassing outing next week in South Carolina when Florida faces the Gamecocks 
(6-3, 4-3 SEC). To qualify for a bowl game, the Gators likely need to win all three of their remaining regular-season games.
That’s the goal now for Zaire, who threw for 158 yards and one interception in his ﬁ  rst game as UF’s starter.
“Obviously, the season hasn’t been going COLLAPSE IN COLUMBIA:  Season in shambles after blowout
The Associated Press
Florida had no answer for Missouri quarterback Drew Lock on Saturday. Lock, a junior, torched Florida's defense for 228 
passing yards and three touchdowns. Florida's defense didn't register any sacks and let Lock rush for an additional 35 yards. 
After Missouri’s 45-16 beatdown of the 
Gators, there’s a lot of blame to go around 
on both sides of the ball. 
There may have been a new coach in 
Randy Shannon, but it was the same old offensive gameplan Saturday. Florida strung together drives that ended in punts 
or ﬁ  eld goals. The defense was carved up 
from start to ﬁ  nish against one of the better offenses in the SEC. According to a statistic Alligator sports editor Matt Brannon dug up, the Gators gave up at least 42 points in 
consecutive weeks for the ﬁ  rst time since 
1917.It’s pretty clear that if the 
team hasn’t hit rock bottom, this is about as close as it gets.
While many Gators fans 
are already looking toward the program's next head coach and 2018 season, the outcome of 
these last three games are piv-
otal for persuading potential coaching candidates.
Names on many wish-lists 
include Dan Mullen, Scott Frost and Willie 
Taggart.
But Florida has to prove there are still remnants of a good team to 
convince those coaches to leave their current jobs. 
Mullen — Mississippi State’s 
coach who has a reputation for developing quarterbacks like Dak Prescott and Alex Smith 
— is in the midst of a 7-2 sea-
son with a top-20 ranked SEC program. In his ninth season coaching the Bulldogs, what 
makes everyone think that he’s willing to 
leave a place where he’s already estab-
lished himself and created success?Frost — UCF’s coach who looks like 
the cool guy you wish was your dad and is known around the college football world 
as the next big thing — is leading an un-
defeated Knights team to a possible confer-ence title. Offense is Frost’s forte, as UCF ranks ﬁ  rst in the nation in scoring offense 
at 48.5 points per game. While it’s clear 
what he can do with a struggling program, does he want to take that on once again? Also, his alma mater, Nebraska, is a pro-gram rumored to be seeking his services. 
If Gators don't ﬁ  nish strong, they risk scaring oﬀ   potential coaching candidates$ky Dolla $ign / OpinionSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebronFlorida 16 Missouri 45
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Tampa guard Pat Bacon drove to 
the basket midway through the first 
half only to have his shot swatted away by a towering Kevarrius Hayes into the hands of Keith Stone. 
Stone brought the ball down to 
the other end of the court, where a pass to Hayes on the inside allowed him to score on a layup.
Florida’s dominance on both 
sides of the court Sunday led the team to a 94-57 win over Tampa in an exhibition game in the O’Connell Center. But the win wasn’t con-
vincing enough for UF coach Mike 
White.
“I think we’re a team that has 
a chance to be good, but we’re far off,” White said. “I think this team is more talented offensively, but defensively, we’re nowhere near (where) last year’s group was.”
Florida’s offense was a threat 
across the court, nailing shots from beyond the arc while also making its presence felt in the paint. 
UF guard Jalen Hudson opened 
up the scoring in the first half with a three-pointer 24 seconds into the game, and the Gators made 11 more after that.
Hudson led the team with 18 
points behind three three-pointers and 5-of-6 made free throws. Stone followed with 12 points on 5-for-8 shooting, and guards Mike Okau-ru and KeVaughn Allen added 11 points each.
“KeVaughn played one of his bet-
ter games,” White said. “I loved his approach, his mentality. I thought he played as hard as I’ve ever seen him. I mean defensively he was all 
over the place, really pushing it in 
transition and played with a really high level of intensity.”
Florida’s success on offense 
showed itself in scoring runs throughout the first half. 
The Gators went on a 10-point 
run early to go ahead, 20-8, with 14:37 left in the first half. Another 
22-0 run about six minutes later 
stretched Florida’s lead to 37 points.
On defense, Hayes and center 
Gorjok Gak anchored a front court that allowed just 22 points in the first half. Combined, they had 14 points, 11 rebounds and seven blocks.
“I felt like when we played de-
fense, it directly translates to of-
fense,” Hayes said. “And the more 
we start to realize that, I feel like the better we are going to be. I try to do the best I can trying to get that going, trying to be the rim protector for us and just keep anything com-ing in, out.”
On the other side of the court, 
Hayes collected four of the Gators’ 
13 offensive rebounds, allowing UF 
to score 12 second-chance points.
As a team, the Gators notched 
12 blocks and 45 rebounds, while Tampa had three blocks and 36 re-bounds.
All 10 of Florida’s active players 
received playing time, each scoring at least six points and spending at least 13 minutes on the floor. 
However, UF had no answer for 
Tampa forward Duke Shelton, who 
had a double-double with 22 points and 11 rebounds. The Gators also 
turned the ball over 15 times, com-pared to Tampa’s 18.
“I told Duke Shelton I knew his 
number. I won’t forget his number for a week,” White said. “We may 
have gotten him drafted. He just 
abused us on the interior.” The Gators now have one week 
before their season-opener against 
Gardner-Webb on Nov. 13 at the O’Connell Center.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators thrash Tampa in O’Dome for preseason victory
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
Shainah Joseph launched herself upward 
from the right side of the court. The redshirt se-nior hung in mid-air, wound up and spiked the ball straight into the middle of Tennessee’s de-
fense. No one on the home team could return it.
Game over.
The No. 5 Gators (20-1, 12-1 SEC) overcame 
a performance riddled with self-inflicted errors to sweep Tennessee (11-11, 4-9 SEC) in Knoxville on Sunday (25-23, 25-19, 25-20) as one UF player worked her way into the Gators’ record books. 
Rhamat Alhassan, the SEC’s leader in blocks 
per set, was relatively quiet for the Gators, al-
though she finished with a total of six blocks — 
enough to set the Florida record for career blocks.
In the second set, Alhassan broke the record 
set by Benavia Jenkins in 2003 with her 602nd career block.
“Rhamat is doing exactly what we all knew 
would happen when she came to Florida, and that’s that she would leave her mark in the re-cord book,” Florida coach Mary Wise said in a 
release. 
In the match, the Volunteers went stride for 
stride with UF in the opening set, where neither 
team led by more than three points at any time.
Tennessee took advantage of five first-set ser-
vice errors by Florida to keep the score close, and at one point, the Gators gifted Tennessee three straight points off attack errors.
Wise wasn’t surprised at Tennessee’s effort, 
saying the Volunteers were well prepared.
“We got a little impatient offensively, but credit Tennessee for their ability to stay in ral-lies,” she said.
Sophomore Rachael Kramer’s six first-set kills 
kept the Gators afloat, however, helping them pull away for a 1-0 lead.
The second set was much smoother for the 
Gators, who jumped out to a quick 10-3 lead. They never trailed, thanks in large part to strong performances from Kramer and Joseph.
Tennessee kept the final set interesting, com-
ing back from a 12-5 deficit to tie things up at 15, but it wasn’t enough against the SEC’s most 
efficient defensive team.
A 10-5 run by the Gators secured their fourth 
consecutive sweep as well as their second win 
against Tennessee this season.
Florida put forth another dominant defensive 
effort, holding a conference opponent to a sub-.100 hitting percentage for the seventh time this year, including both of its meetings against Ten-nessee. The Gators also more than tripled Ten-
nessee’s block count.
Joseph and senior Carli Snyder did a little bit 
of everything for Florida. Snyder shook off an un-
characteristic string of four unforced errors in the opening set and finished the match with a team-high 12 kills, four total blocks and 13 digs.
Joseph had 10 kills, three total blocks and six 
digs of her own.
Having won three consecutive road matches, 
the Gators will now return to the O’Connell Cen-ter for their next two contests, beginning with a rematch with Arkansas (17-8, 7-6 SEC) on Friday.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgGators sweep Volunteers as 
Alhassan sets school recordGATORS WIN TWO IN 
CALIFORNIA, TWO IN 
FLORIDA.
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
When No. 1 seed Anna Danilina was 
upset by an unranked opponent in her first 
match of the ITA National Fall Champion-ships, she didn’t give up and go home.
After that loss, Danilina fought her way 
to the singles consolation finals against Anna Bright of California and secured her third title of the season with a win, 5-7, 7-6, 7-5.
“What an incredible turnaround from 
four days ago when we started the tourna-ment,” UF women’s assistant coach Dave Balogh said in a release. “Anna got better 
every day and played her best today.”
Danilina’s victory was one of two for 
Florida at the Fall Championships in In-
dian Wells, California, on Sunday.
In addition to Danilina, the duo of 
freshman Oliver Crawford and senior Chase Perez-Blanco found an easy victory over Cormac Clissold and Thomas Laurent of Oregon. The Gators pair won the match 
with scores of 6-2, 6-3, claiming the dou-
bles consolation title.
In singles, No. 9-seeded junior Alfredo 
Perez put up a tough fight against No.3 seed Petros Chrysochos of Wake Forest in the quarterfinals, but Perez was ultimately knocked out of contention for a singles title after dropping the match, 7-5, 6-4.
Sophomore Johannes Ingildsen was also knocked out of the tournament after losing his quarterfinals match to Mike Per-volarakis of Portland in the singles conso-
lation bracket, 6-2, 6-1.
Florida’s tennis program won two more 
titles over the weekend while competing 
in the Dick Vitale Invitational in Lakewood Ranch, Florida.
No. 3 seed Andy Andrade, a freshman, 
ended his fall season by claiming a singles title over No. 1 seed Mattias Siimar of Michigan in an upset.
Andrade made a comeback after drop-
ping the first set to win the match, 2-6, 6-3, 7-5. Overall, he won five singles matches in the tournament. Two of them were up-sets.
Senior Josie Kuhlman claimed her own 
singles title Sunday against Monica Matias of Central Florida in two sets, 6-2, 6-3.
Freshman Katie Kubicz made an im-
pressive run at the Dick Vitale Invitational as well. Kubicz won three matches (all in just two sets) before losing to Matias in the third set on Saturday.
In doubles, the UF men’s duo of An-
drade and senior Jordan Belga made it to the finals against No. 2 seed Carter Lin and Mattias Siimar of Michigan, but ultimately dropped the match on Sunday with a score 
of 8-4.
Overall, the women’s team finished its 
fall season with three titles (two singles 
and one doubles) and the men’s team fin-ished its with eight titles (four singles and four doubles).
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgUF wins 4 titles to close fallAlligator File Photo
Gators forward Kevarrius Hayes (13) said stout defense fuels the team’s ability to score. “The more 
we start to realize that, I feel like the better we are going to be, ” Hayes said after UF’s win on Sunday.MEN’S BASKETBALL: FLORIDA 94, TAMPA 57
TENNIS VOLLEYBALL: UF 3, UT 016   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2017
FRIDA Y 
NOVEMBER 10
THAttention Advertisers
DISPLAY: 376-4482     
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463RUN DATE DEADLINE
Monday  
November 13th
Wednesday  
November 15thWednesday  November 8
th
Thursday  November 9
thIn honor of our veterans, 
the alligator will not be 
publishing on: 
Advertise in The Alligator’s
Student Living
Spotlight your property by 
advertising in the Student Living 
Guide, which publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair .
Quarter page ads and larger 
receive free map spottingRun DateNov. 17
Deadline 
Nov. 13
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482
Guide
like I’ve (planned),” Zaire said af-
ter the loss. “I trust the guys (can stay) uniﬁ  ed these next games, so 
we can make our push for a bowl 
game.”
It’s not clear if Zaire will be back 
under center to start in UF’s next 
contest. After Franks came into the 
game late and led Florida’s only touchdown drive, Shannon said he hasn’t decided who will run the of-fense next weekend. 
“(Zaire) didn’t give us the lift 
we want,” Shannon said. “When we put Feleipe in it was like a lit-tle bit smoother. We’re not saying 
Feleipe’s (going) to be the starter 
next week, but we just need consis-tency in anything we do.”
And while trying to mend this 
team’s troubles with a simple 
switch feels like putting a Band-
Aid on a tumor, it’s one of the few ways the Gators can convince themselves that there’s much left 
to play for.
Shannon said challenging the 
players is the only way to bounce 
back.
“I don’t think anybody that 
comes to this university is going to accept losing,” he said. “It’s our job to make sure those guys don’t accept that and play hard to get out 
there and have a chance to win a 
game.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UF can use 
next 3 games
In that case, Frost can take over a 
team that ranks 85th in scoring of-fense instead of UF, which ranks 
114th (and garbage time touch-
downs have helped that statistic out).
Although Taggart hasn’t had the 
same success with the 5-5 Oregon Ducks, he might not move to the SEC so easily. The Ducks got off to a promising start in 2017, winning four of their ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games before 
starting quarterback Justin Herbert 
went down with an injury that has derailed their season. And Oregon is still a Power Five school that is 
bringing in the No. 6 2018 recruit-
ing class according to 247Sports, one spot ahead of Florida’s No. 7 class.
All I’m saying is that while the 
season is a wash and the Gators aren’t playing for a big bowl game, they still need to utilize these three ﬁ  nal games to showcase that the 
next coach can use some of the 
pieces already in place to not com-pletely rebuild, but rather retool.
Otherwise, Florida is going to 
get rocked by UAB and that head 
coaching position will look oh-so 
promising, right?
Skyler Lebron is a sports writer. 
Contact him at slebron@alligator.
org or follow him @SkylerLebron.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Gators fall to Missouri for fourth consecutive loss
The Associated Press
UF interim coach Randy Shannon said he needs to challenge his players after a 45-16 loss to Missouri 
on Saturday. "I don't think anybody that comes to this university is going to accept losing, " he said.
