We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 74 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
BLINDSIDED
Stone Forsythe dreamed of playing for the 
Gators from the time he was 2. His father wanted that dream for his son, too, but almost 
wasn’t around to see it, pg. 15
Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst trampoline park debuts
It features wall-to-wall trampolines, pg. 5
UF building new Bat Barn
It will help house UF’s more than 350,000 bats, pg. 4UF welcomes students
See photos from Tuesday’s event, pg. 10
Emily Cochrane / Alligator
Florida running back Mark Thompson dives into the end zone to cap an 85-yard touchdown catch. The score was Thompson’s third of the season and gave the Gators a 10-3 lead over Iowa in Monday’s Outback Bowl. 
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Chauncey Gardner’s jersey was 
dirty.
At least 20 minutes had passed 
since the end of the game, and the 
freshman’s white uniform looked ravaged — dirt stained almost every inch, and there were even some speckles of blood spattered along his right pant leg.
On a team with at least three 
future NFL Draft picks at his posi-tion, playing time for the ﬁ  rst-year defensive back had been minimal 
this season. 
There weren’t many opportuni-
ties for Gardner to dirty his jersey.
But in just his third start of the 
season on Monday, the freshman recorded two interceptions in No. 
17 Florida’s 30-3 demolition of Iowa, earning the Outback Bowl Most Valuable Player award and 
leading a defense that held the 
Hawkeyes out of the end zone all day.“I loved my ﬁ  rst season. I loved 
being a part of the Gator program,” Gardner said, accepting the MVP trophy with a smile. “I just felt like 
this is the place to be great.”
While Gardner helped the 
Florida football team end its sea-
son with a win, recording the best game of his career in the process, 
he also provided something else: 
a glimpse at what the future may hold for UF football.
Without many of its injured vet-
erans, young players like Gardner played well against Iowa. 
Freshman linebacker Vosean 
Joseph ﬁ  nished third on the team in total tackles and had several 
teeth-chattering hits. Freshman 
receiver Tyrie Cleveland caught a touchdown that was later negated by an illegal motion penalty, but 
cemented his role as a deep-threat 
receiver opposite sophomore An-tonio Callaway for next season. And sophomore running back Jor-dan Scarlett solidiﬁ  ed his spot as  HOPE FOR THE FUTURE: Young players give UF conﬁ  dence
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
On Tuesday, UF alumna Kim Barton 
was sworn in as Alachua County’s Su-
pervisor of Elections,  becoming the ﬁ  rst 
African-American to hold the position. 
Barton, 54, has worked as the out-
reach director for the Supervisor of Elec-
tions Ofﬁ  ce for the past 23 years and now strives to increase voter participation, 
advance voter accessibility and expand 
voter education.
In the August election, she won with 
67.62 percent of the vote. 
“It was a momentous occasion — I 
was just overwhelmed with joy and ex-
citement,” Barton said about taking on her new role. “I am so looking forward to serving the voters and citizens of Alachua County.”
On Tuesday night, Gainesville Black 
Professionals, a nonproﬁ  t, recognized Barton as its ﬁ  rst-ever professional of the month at a celebration and professional mixer.
About 100 people attended the event, 
which was held at The Twisted Peacock 
restaurant, located at 3610 SW 13th St.
“It was such an honor,” Barton said. 
“For them to do this for me, it was really 
special.”
Virginia Grant, the executive director of Gainesville Black Professionals, said 
the organization plans to continue to rec-
ognize black professionals on a monthly 
basis.
“It’s an opportunity for us to recognize 
professionals that are doing great things in the community, in their personal lives and in their careers,” Grant said.
The organization decided to honor 
Barton after the results came in for the historic election.
Grant said there is still something of County elects ﬁ  rst black female  Supervisor of Elections
SEE SUPERVISOR,  PAGE 4
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Alcino Donadel does 
homework in his room at Beaty 
Towers, he worries about the Wi-
Fi connection faltering.
“Unless you’re at a library, you 
need to have Wi-Fi wherever you 
are,” the 19-year-old UF business 
administration freshman said. 
“And it sucks because sometimes you’ll run into a dead spot in the middle of an assignment.”
But students like Donadel will 
soon have improved Wi-Fi in the majority of on-campus residence 
halls by Spring. After receiving 
student feedback about the hall’s spotty wireless-internet connec-tion, UF Housing and Residence Education plans to strengthen the 
signal through an initiative called 
World Class Wi-Fi, wrote Sharon Blansett, the assistant to the as-sociate vice president for Student 
Affairs, in an email.
The Wi-Fi was installed in six 
residence halls in July, Blansett said. Installing the system in all 
residence halls will cost about $1.5 million and will be funded through student rent.
While the Wi-Fi in 10 more 
halls will be improved in Spring, the dates for expansion to the re-maining halls in need of updates has not been determined, she 
said.
Before the new system, Wi-Fi 
was strongest in common areas, but now signal will be guaranteed 
within individual rooms, Blansett said. UF Housing is partnering with Cisco, an internet provider, for the initiative.
“After this upgrade, world-
class wireless is guaranteed in the resident rooms,” Blan-
sett said. “Their wireless will 
be strong, stable, and available when they need it for studies and for leisure.”
The new system has increased 
support for media and streaming devices like Apple TV and Chro-mecast, she said.
Buckman, Hume, Thomas, 
 UF Housing to improve, expand Wi-Fi in residence halls
SEE WI-FI,  PAGE 4Barton
She was sworn in TuesdayNot ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Cuban arts and culture festival 
coming to Gainesville Jan. 5
Gainesville cultural institu-
tions will begin hosting Bulla 
Cubana, a Cuban arts and cul-ture festival, starting Jan. 5, through March. The festival 
features more than 20 events. 
Cuban muralists, dancers, mu-sicians, authors and academ-ics are among those who will be featured. The first event 
will feature “Lights, Camera, 
Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” 
from Thursday to Feb. 10 in 
the University Gallery and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. Join them for this presenta-tion of authentic and repro-
duced vintage movie posters 
from Mexico and Cuba. There will be an opening recep-tion Thursday from 5:30 p.m. 
to 7:30 p.m. The University 
Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, the curator of the Popular Culture Collections at 
Smathers Library, on Jan. 13 
from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m.  All events are free and open to the public. For more informa-
tion about “Lights, Camera, 
Cuba!” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Learn basic Arabic at 
Headquarters Library start-
ing January
The Arabic for Adults program will be led at the Alachua County Library District start-
ing Jan. 11. An experienced 
teacher and native speaker will conduct Wednesday eve-ning classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Registration is not 
required. These classes offer a 
chance to learn the basics of the Arabic language. For more information about library pro-
grams, visit aclib.us/events or 
contact Nickie Kortus at 352-334-3909 or nkortus@aclib.us.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day event Jan. 21Collectors from across the re-gion will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum 
of Natural History visitors dur-
ing the 38th Collectors Day on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event allows guests to interact with collec-
tors and learn about the con-text and historical significance 
of their collections. Attendees 
will have the opportunity 
to view classic cars, stereo-scopes, Pokemon, Legos and more. For those interested in displaying collections, the reg-
istration deadline is Jan. 14. 
Collectors of all ages are wel-come, and there is no charge for participating. For more 
information on registration, 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collectors-day-registration or call 352-273-2061.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ featured exhibitBeginning Jan. 28, the Florida Museum of Natural History 
visitors will be able to get up 
close and personal with big, loud and even poisonous frogs in the museum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of 
Colors.” Showcasing vari-
ous species of live frogs and toads,“Frogs” is the most ad-vanced traveling frog exhibi-
tion in the country. Guests 
may view tree frogs, bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant toads and dart poison frogs. The Florida Museum is also supplement-
ing the exhibit with updated 
material from its research-ers, including what the fossil record reveals about frogs' 
evolutionary history and the 
diversity, exploration and dis-covery of new species. Visitors may also listen to recordings of Florida frog calls and view a 
partial frog fossil recovered in 
Alachua County. The museum will host a public opening cel-ebration that includes a Froggy 
5K race Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. 
to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Jan. 24, or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or 
race-day registration is $30, or 
$20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit flmnh.ufl.
edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs! 
A Chorus of Colors” is $8.50 for adults ($7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students); $5 for ages 3 to 17 
and free to museum members 
and UF students with a valid Gator 1 card. The Florida Museum will display “Frogs” 
through Sept. 4.Paddle Florida announces 
Great Calusa Blueway trip in Southwest Florida from 
Feb. 11 to Feb. 17Paddle Florida’s Great Calusa Blueway trip will explore the history, culture and beauty of 
Southwest Florida waterways 
Feb. 11 to Feb. 17. This 57-mile paddling adventure tra-verses Lee County’s creeks, 
rivers and bays, where pad-
dlers will explore mangrove tunnels, aquatic reserves, Calusa shell mounds and bar-rier islands home to abundant 
birds, fish and wildlife. This is 
a chance to experience a beau-tiful slice of “real Florida.” The registration deadline is Jan. 
28. Nightly entertainment and 
educational presentations are a big attraction on these trips, featuring regional musicians and experts on local flora, fau-
na and water issues. The trip 
fee is $700 per person, with discounts for seniors, college students and children. The fee 
covers camping, meals, gear 
and personal shuttles, evening programming and waterway guides. Since the trip will tra-verse open waters of the Gulf’s 
back bays, Paddle Florida rec-
ommends sea kayaks at least 16 feet long equipped with a rudder or skeg and spray skirt. 
For more trip details and reg-
istration, visit paddleflorida.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
HIGH  75° LOW  49°
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 74
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David Hoffman, Amy Guzman
  Kaelah Scheff, Elias Selimos, 
  Alexandria Ng,
  Madeline Harlow
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
The YMCA’s board of directors gave a 
30-day extension last Wednesday for its 
Gainesville chapter to raise enough money to avoid closure.
The center, located at 5201 NW 34th 
Blvd., has a new deadline of Jan. 31. About $765,000 of the $1.5 million goal has been raised, and a minimum of $1.2 million is needed to remain open and pay off the ma-jority of its debt. CEO John Bonacci said he is speaking with foundations and large donors to raise the rest of the money.
“With the 30-day extension, it buys us the 
time we need to bring those discussions to fruition,” he said.
Bonacci said the money raised will cov-
er the mortgage, critical facility repairs and 
miscellaneous debt.
Leslie Galloway, a member of the YMCA, 
created the Facebook page NCF YMCA Ad-
vocates to keep the community updated on fundraising progress and meetings.
She said the closure of the YMCA will be hard for families who use the childcare and afterschool programs. Additionally, senior 
citizens who use the SilverSneakers pro-
gram, which is paid for by their insurance, 
to keep them active, will be displaced. 
Galloway said she hopes the funds will be 
raised, but for now she is crossing her fin-
gers and hoping for a miracle.
“It’s always been a part of my life,” Gal-
loway said. “I’d hate to lose it. I’d hate for 
our community to lose it.” 
Bonacci said sentiments like this give him 
hope that the YMCA can get the support it needs.
“This YMCA is an institution within this 
community, and with the people that we 
serve it’s absolutely a must-have for this 
community,” he said.
Going forward, Bonacci said he plans to 
continue fighting until he secures the funds 
to keep the center running.
“I am gonna pursue every angle possible 
and every donor possible,” he said. “I need 
all the help I can get to save this place.”
@Mary_lou_w
mwatkinson@alligator.orgGainesville YMCA gets extension to raise $1.2 million
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff
When the bats living across 
from Lake Alice fly home every night, they will soon have a new place to rest.
UF’s Environmental Health and 
Safety Department started con-struction in December on a new “Bat Barn” next to the two exist-
ing structures, where more than 
350,000 bats live on campus. One of the buildings, the Bat House, is deteriorating from the weight of 
the bats, the build up of guano — 
or bat feces — and urine-soaked 
wood, said Paul Ramey, the Florida Museum of Natural History assis-tant director of marketing.
“The same design is being used; 
they’re just using better materials 
for the inside and outside,” he said.
The new Bat Barn will be mod-
eled after the current barn, which 
was built in 2010, Ramey said. Like the current barn, the new building will have an open floor that al-lows for more guano to fall to the ground, preventing collapse and deterioration.
The Bat House was built in 1991 
and has hosted the colony since 1995. Although the new barn is ex-pected to be completed by the end of February, the house will remain open throughout the mating sea-son and until the bats move to the new building, said Bill Properzio, the director of UF’s Environmental Health and Safety Department.
Properzio said department em-
ployees cannot force the bats to 
move. When the original house 
was built, the bats living in cam-pus buildings took years to settle into the structure. It only took a few months for the barn to be oc-cupied, however.
“There’s not a process you can 
follow,” he said. “(The buildings are) right in close proximity so we hope that we can duplicate that.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
New campus ‘Bat Barn’ scheduled for February opening
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Bats emerge from the Bat House (right) and the Bat Barn (center) on Tuesday evening after sunset. The new bat barn (left), which is currently under construction, will eventually replace the Bat House.
Fletcher, Sledd Hall and Springs 
Complex already received the strengthened Wi-Fi in July be-
cause they had the most need, 
Blansett said.
The new Wi-Fi will be expand-
ed to 10 residence halls in Spring, 
she said. Residents in Beaty Tow-
ers, Broward, Riker and Yulee, have access to Wi-Fi that isn’t far behind the improved standard, which is why they will be updat-
ed last, Blansett said.
Eight halls — Mallory, Jen-
nings, Keys, Lakeside, Infinity, 
Cypress, University Village South 
and Corry — are already up-to-
date, she said.Ben Ingham, a UF statistics 
freshman living in Hume Hall, said he has noticed a difference between the Wi-Fi signal in his room and in other residence halls. 
When visiting his friend in Raw-
lings Hall, Ingham can’t connect his phone to the Wi-Fi at all.  
He needs a stable Wi-Fi con-
nection for online tests, the 
18-year-old said.
“It’s important that I don’t 
drop Wi-Fi during the middle of 
an exam, because that would be awful,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgWI-FI,  from pg. 1Installation will cost about $1.5 million
a divide between black profession-
als and the community in terms of linking opportunities and re-sources. 
The organization’s goal is to 
address the divide by growing communication, collaboration and networking between black profes-sionals, both personally and pro-fessionally.
“I’m excited for her to have 
been chosen to lead us in this role, and I think she’s going to do an exceptional job,” Grant said.
Barton’s inspiration for exercis-
ing the right to vote was something  she was taught from a young age.
Growing up in Memphis, Ten-
nessee, Barton said her parents were passionate about equal ac-cess to voting — and even volun-
teered to drive others to polling 
locations.
“My parents instilled in my 
brother and I the importance of your voice and your vote,” she said. “Whenever they would go vote, they would take us with them.”
Barton left Tennessee to study 
advertising and play on the wom-en’s basketball team at UF, grad-uating in 1985. She said being a Gator taught her to work hard and pursue what she loves to do.
“My education at UF has af-
forded me the opportunity to be where I am,” she said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgSUPERVISOR,  from pg. 1She studied advertising By Paige Fry
 Alligator Staff Writer
As about 15 UF students raced 
drones across Ustler Hall, no re-
motes could be seen.
The racers were moving the 
machines with their brains.
A group of UF doctoral can-didates in the UF Department of Computer and Information Sci-ence and Engineering have been working since 2012 to develop a way for people to control drones with their minds. For Marvin An-dujar, 27, the technology will help increase people’s concentration and allow those with physical dis-abilities to participate as an equal in a sport. 
In April, Andujar joined forc-
es with Chris Crawford, 26, and France Jackson, 27, and used the technology to start the world’s first brain-drone race.
“Everybody can compete,” 
Andujar said. “All you need is a brain.”
Participants wore a band of 
sensors around their forehead, which read signals from their brain. They were shown an object on a computer and thought about pushing it, said Juan Gilbert, the department chair. The sensors in-formed the computer that the per-son’s brain signaled something to move. 
After the computer understood the signals, the drone was con-nected and moved with the object on the screen, Gilbert said.
Andujar said a second race is 
scheduled for April 2017, he said.
“We’re so proud of how suc-
cessful it was,” he said. “There was some people who didn’t be-lieve that this was possible.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
UF doctoral students develop mind-controlled drones
They are organizing a drone race
RESIDENCE HALLS THAT 
WILL BE UPDATED 
IN SPRING 
• Murphree Hall
• Reid Hall
• East Hall
• North Hall
• Rawlings Hall
• Graham Area
• Weaver Hall
• T olbert Hall By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
For Gators fans across the coun-
try, the football team’s Outback 
Bowl win meant free Bloomin’ On-ions on Tuesday.
Outback Steakhouse, which sponsored Monday’s game, gave out free servings of the fried onion bowls Tuesday in honor of UF’s 30-3  trouncing of the University of 
Iowa Hawkeyes. 
As of press time, Gainesville’s 
Outback location at 3760 SW Ar-
cher Road gave out about 100 por-tions, but more were expected, said Erin Akins, the restaurant’s manager. The promotion was for dine-in customers only, Akins said. Customers had to make at least one 
purchase — as minimal as buying 
a drink — and mention the recent 
Gators win. 
“We deﬁ  nitely won’t sell out of 
onions — we have so many here,” she said. “But I deﬁ  nitely think we’ll be selling a lot more.”
Daniel Bowen, a 21-year-old 
UF history senior, said he saw the promotion on a friend’s Facebook page.
He said he tried to make a res-
ervation with his friend, but they were booked, and the wait time was about two hours. 
“What we did was we just went and sat at the bar — there was no wait,” Bowen said.
He said he doesn’t go to Out-
back very often, but he enjoyed the promotion and what it stood for.
“It’s always nice when a busi-
ness supports UF and helps provide these free promotions,” Bowen said. “It’s a win-win for everyone.”
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
GET AIR GAINESVILLE 
FEATURES WALL-TO-WALL 
TRAMPOLINES.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents have a new 
place to go jump around. 
The city’s ﬁ  rst trampoline park, 
Get Air Gainesville at 6250 NW 23rd 
St., opened Dec. 31 and features 
wall-to-wall trampolines, a foam pit 
and a ninja course, similar to the “American Ninja Warrior” TV show. 
Construction started in Octo-
ber and was about 10 days behind schedule, wrote Matt Reeves, the general manager, in a Facebook message.
“(It’s a) great place in town for 
the kids to work off that energy and adults to get in shape,” he said.
The park will also feature four 
party rooms, with themes of Ancient Greece, Rome, Egypt and the Mayan Empire, Reeves said.
Guests can reserve the rooms, 
which will become available Jan. 13. Those who make a reservation can bring their own food and drinks, 
or pay extra for Pizza Hut and Coca 
Cola products. 
Each reservation comes with four 
tables, plates, silverware, cups, bot-tled water and a party host to help with organization, Reeves said. 
“It will be unlike anything 
Gainesville has to offer, and it’s fam-ily fun for all ages,” Reeves said. 
Prices range from $10 to $26, de-
pending on a jumper’s height, the duration of the visit and the day. There are also discounts, such as a 10-percent military discount and a 20-percent student discount on Tues-days.
Jess Seitz, a Gainesville resident, 
said she is excited to ﬁ  nally have a 
trampoline park in Gainesville.
The city doesn’t have a lack of outdoor activities, she said, but it 
was in need of an air-conditioned at-traction.
Seitz, a trampoline park enthusi-
ast, said she looks up new places to jump anytime she is out of town, and 
that she has been looking forward to a park opening in Gainesville for a 
while. 
“I’ve been to many all over the 
Southeast of the United States,” she said. 
Even though it took a while for 
Get Air Gainesville to open, Seitz said she’s glad it’s ﬁ  nally here.
“I’m just excited for it, and I deﬁ  -
nitely will be there within the ﬁ  rst 
week of it being open,” she said.
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.org
 Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst indoor trampoline park makes debut
 With Gators bowl win, free Bloomin’ Onions for allCourtesy to the Alligator
Get Air Gainesville, the city’s ﬁ  rst indoor trampoline park, opened on Dec. 31. The facility includes 
wall-to-wall trampolines, a foam pit and an “American Ninja Warrior”-style obstacle course.
The promotion ended TuesdayThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORI smoke cigarettes: a discussion on addiction
The other night I was biting my nails at 
a party. I was trying not to step out-side and bum a cigarette. It had been ﬁ  ve days since I last smoked. I had felt proud of myself earlier in the day, but 
the familiar feeling of intense craving welled up the second I stepped into the dimly lit apart-ment. Now, one hour into the soiree, sipping my second rum and coke, I was exhausted with small talk. I didn’t want to discuss my major, my post-graduation plans or my summer in-ternship. I grimaced at the faux-ﬂ  oral stink of the scented candle in the corner, downed my cocktail and stepped onto the balcony. I saw a portly guy with a scraggly brown beard pufﬁ  ng away at a cigarette. I tried to play it cool.
“Hey, can I have a cigarette?”He rolled his eyes at me and produced a crumpled pack 
of Newport cigarettes from his coat pocket. I hate men-thols. He handed me a slim white stick and said nothing. When I asked for a light he sighed and handed me a cold silver Zippo lighter. I stood on the other side of the bal-cony as I smoked. He put out a half-ﬁ  nished cigarette and stepped inside. I was alone and smoking. Sweet relief.
I know smoking cigarettes is a bad habit. I know that 
this activity exposes my lungs to tar and formaldehyde and countless other deadly chemicals. I know since I started smoking I have lost much of my stamina and urge for cardiovascular exercise. I have seen the commercials of wrinkled, smoking veterans on television with tubes drilled into their throats, and I have heard their robotic, phlegmatic voices. Still, I smoke. 
It started when I was 16 years old. My taste in ﬁ  lm and 
music gloriﬁ  ed the nasty habit. Quentin Tarantino, my favorite director, wrote characters who smoked heavily. “Reservoir Dogs” and “Pulp Fiction” are stylized portray-als of a world where everybody smoked, and they looked cool doing it. It wasn’t a dirty habit, but a normal activity, like drinking beer or coffee.  
Johnny Hobo, a folk-punk musician, wrote 
songs about vagabond living, self-destructive habits — all in this untrained, gravelly voice. His lyrics centered around binge drinking, drug traf-ﬁ  cking, homelessness, godlessness and chain-smoking. I thought this was all very cool.
My friends and I would hang around a cof-
fee shop in downtown Fort Lauderdale on week-ends, sitting on the outdoor balcony smoking. We would loiter in dingy parking lots smoking 
instead of doing things that productive, healthy people my age did. I didn’t play or watch sports. I didn’t read books. I didn’t get a job. I didn’t go to the beach. I smoked ciga-rettes and listened to punk music.
I do take solace in the fact that most people are ad-
dicted to something. It is socially acceptable to rely on a daily dose of pharmaceuticals to treat mental illness. Caf-feine addiction is casual — most working Americans rely on their local Starbucks or Dunkin’ Donuts for a quick ﬁ  x of chemical support before work. We are encouraged to drink alcohol often and even drive afterward, so long as we are below a legal limit. We all have our crutches. I just wish I didn’t have to worry about mine giving me cancer. 
I kick myself every day for picking up the habit of 
smoking cigarettes when I was so young, because now I have a full-on nicotine addiction that I have never kicked. Sometimes I tell myself that I am still young, that I have my entire life to quit smoking. Other times I try not to think about it. I simply embrace apathy and recklessness. I smoke and I enjoy it. Everyone is addicted to something, right? Hopefully one day I will quit smoking for real and replace it with a less damaging habit. Until then I will, in the words of Johnny Hobo, “chain-smoke my way through the gaps in between my aspirations and my apathy.” 
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.
Please be kind in 
2017
There is a very strong consensus that 2016, quite frank-ly, sucked. Maybe folks are blaming it on the massive political overturns happening across the world (includ-ing both Brexit and the U.S. presidential race) or the devastating acts of violence that occurred last year. 
Maybe it was the staggering number of inﬂ  uential celebrities that left us in 2016 or the fact that the globe mourned a gorilla for way too long. Maybe it was the sudden inﬂ  ux of creepy clowns lurking in people’s neighborhoods (seriously, what the heck was that one?). Regardless, there’s no denying that 2016 was an eventful year, but it was not necessarily eventful in a good way. 
So what does our generation do to combat that?Naturally, the internet came to the rescue, providing hu-
morous pictures and quotes about hunkering down and pre-paring for the upcoming year or wishing that 2017 won’t be nearly as chaotic as 2016 was. They’re funny, offering a little chuckle during one’s morning social media check. 
But what good are a bunch of pictures, a bunch of retweets 
or a vague “Please be kind, 2017?” A small moment of humor that eventually turns back into a nagging pit of despair? 
Yes, last year sucked. Yes, a ton of crazy stuff happened 
that no one had any control over. Yes, a ton of crazy stuff happened that we might have had control over — opposing political parties, foreign intervention, corrupt or ineffective systems, social media, regular media or whatever the new ex-cuse of the week was. Yes, it was all a mess. 
But if all we do as a generation is complain about it and 
posts memes, then we don’t have the right to complain.
Do you want to make sure 2017 goes better? Here’s what 
you do. Be kind. Be respectful of other people. Combat hatred and fear and paranoia with respect and love and kindness. A lot of people are going into 2017 genuinely worried for their lives. Let them know you will be there for them. 
The world has always been a weird, chaotic place and, yes, 
it seems like the right reaction nowadays with tools like Twit-ter and Facebook is to get on a soap box and start scream-ing out against everything that is wrong. Sometimes you will have a point. Oftentimes you are screaming at people who are screaming back at you, and what you really need is someone letting you know that they are there to support you.
You have the power for positive change. Sometimes it’s 
easier to hate. Sometimes it’s easier to hide. But those actions won’t change anything. If you want to make real change in the world: start small, start positive, start kind. Don’t go on a Twitter rant about how hopeless the state of the world is. Don’t get into a comment war with your roommate’s distant uncle on Facebook. If you’re really bent on making a huge impact, ﬁ  gure out where your anger and frustration is directed and ﬁ  nd out how you can turn it into a force for good. But if you just want to see some light in the world, remember that making someone’s day is as simple as a compliment in the Starbucks line or reminding your mother that you love her. 
So as we enter 2017, keep in mind that, yes, the world is a 
crazy place and it can suck, but what is important is remem-bering the good in it and being the good and kind force in the world that you wish to see.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Let’s talk about respect. For many people, 
college is the ﬁ  rst time they ﬁ  nd them-selves amid a diverse population, ex-pected to communicate their ideas in a meaningful way. The critical exchange 
of ideas is how we grow, and if respect is the compass with which we navigate these inter-actions, I think it is vital to take a closer look.
What is respect? For purposes of this dis-
cussion, let’s say respect is consideration for how one’s actions affect others, with intent to not cause harm or offense. Maybe that sounds like the bare minimum, but we’re looking for a broad deﬁ  nition, and this will sufﬁ  ce for our 
discussion.
When we say everyone deserves respect, 
what we mean is we should consider how our 
actions affect everyone else. At the very least we ought to act such that we don’t deliberately harm others. Civilization is founded on this principle. If we didn’t all agree to refrain from hurting each other, we wouldn’t be able to live and work together.
This is pretty straightforward, so 
let’s take a look at the wrench in the gears. The demand for respect is of-ten used as a shield by people who would rather not face criticism. If you cannot discuss your ideas with-out hurting people, you have failed the basic qualiﬁ  cation for being a member of society. So where is the problem?
The problem is in how we apply respect. 
If respect is simply an endeavor not to harm, respect itself cannot be destructive. The issue comes when we demand respect be extended not only to people, but to ideas.
Let’s be clear: People deserve respect; ideas 
do not.We respect the feelings of others 
because we assume every person experiences life roughly as we do. We offer respect because we want respect and assume others feel the 
same way. Ideas and concepts do 
not have feelings. Ideas either have merit or they do not. An idea is a tool, and it does not matter how much a hammer means to you; if it doesn’t drive nails, you can’t build 
anything. To make any progress in this world, ideas cannot be precious.
Why is there so much controversy around 
the criticism of ideas? Because we make ideas part of our identity. When we feel we have a good approach to life, we consider it part of ourselves, and we blur the line between our-selves and our ideas. We demand respect for our ideas because we know that people de-serve respect, and we feel that our deeply held beliefs are part of our person. But if tomorrow I were to prove that the moon was made of cheese, it wouldn’t matter what you believed; we would still be orbited by a big ball of gor-
gonzola, and every idea you have about moon 
rocks would still be useless.
Ideas do not have equal merit simply on the 
basis of being ideas. If your philosophy leads to the suffering of innocent people, it is worse than a philosophy that doesn’t. If your archi-tectural theory creates buildings that collapse, it has failed. This is not a criticism of you as a person any more than pointing out a broken 
hammer is a criticism of the owner. Just like 
the hammer, your idea needs to be replaced. It’s the only way to keep building and one day create something great.
David Billig is a UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays. 
Respect is for people — not their ideas; concepts do not have feelingsColumn
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
About 260 UF doctoral students 
wearing decorated caps became the 
first class to graduate in the reno-vated Stephen C. O’Connell Center last month.
The commencement ceremony, 
held Dec. 16, was the first public event in the center — which cost $64.5 million to renovate — since 
construction began in March, ac-
cording to Alligator archives. About 1,000 guests attended the ceremony, some of who waited with flowers as they watched their loved ones walk across the stage.
The renovations included a 
new main entrance, sound system, 
seats, flooring, lighting and energy-
efficient electricity and plumbing systems, said Lynda Reinhart, the O’Connell Center’s director.
“Everyone comes in and says it 
looks so different, but yet it still feels like the old O’Connell Center,” Re-inhart said. “People are surprised at how much work was done in such a 
short period of time.”
During construction, commence-
ment was held at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium in Spring and the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts in Summer, UF spokesman Steve Or-
lando wrote in an email.  
As students received their diplo-
mas, their loved ones sat on updated 
cushions.
Eric Johnson, 48, said he was 
able to watch his sister’s face on the new video screens as she received her diploma.
“I could take a photo of my sister 
on the screen,” he said.
Lauren Douma, 28, said she was 
excited to be part of the first class to graduate in the renovated center.
Her boyfriend, Adam Watson, 
33, graduated with his Ph.D. during Summer in the Phillips Center, she said. But that venue lacked seats, so some attendees were forced to stand 
during the ceremony.
Douma said she preferred being 
in the O’Connell Center for her turn 
to graduate.
“It’s really neat that we get a 
sneak peek into it before anyone else,” the UF genetics and genomics Ph.D. graduate said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgDoctoral graduates christen renovated O’Connell Center
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs appears on the Jumbotron as he welcomes doctoral graduates, families and 
friends to the Fall Commencement ceremony in the newly renovated Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Friday, Dec. 16. The Dec. 16 ceremony was the first event in the building since its renovation.
By Mari Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In 2017, Jazzmin Favours 
wants to grow more as a person.
“I want to speak up more 
amongst my peers and create 
more pieces of art,” the 19-year-old UF microbiology sophomore, said. “I got out of practice during 
2016, and I didn’t paint anything 
at all.”
Favours is one of many UF stu-
dents who began making resolu-tions as the clock inched toward 
midnight Saturday. While her 
goal is to improve her personal life, others want to eat healthier and improve their mental health 
in the new year.
Ryan Loveland, a 19-year-old 
UF nutritional sciences freshman, 
said he wants to focus on his health and his job as a certified nursing assistant.
“My New Year’s resolution is 
to keep up my grades, of course, go on a health mission trip, work more as a CNA and look at food 
as more of a nutritional, powerful 
interaction between our bodies and nature,” he said.
Like Loveland, UF history pro-
fessor Steven Noll said he wants to improve his physical health. But maintaining his mental health is arguably just as vital, he said.
In 2017, he will undergo a 
knee surgery, follow his therapy regimen and continue to stay off social media to improve his over-all health, he said. 
“I want to get healthy so I can 
play basketball again, and I want to continue to stay off Facebook so my life will be sane,” Noll said.Students make New 
Year’s resolutions
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
TAILGATE TIME
Stormie McCleary, a 23-year-old Gators fan from Brooksville, Florida, watches 21-year-old Jeremy 
Peterson play beer pong with 22-year-old Katie Shiver outside of Raymond James Stadium in T ampa before the Outback Bowl football game on Monday. The group drove together from Brooksville and got tickets to the game. “It’s live, ” said Shiver. “Go Gators. ”
THEY HELPED PROVIDE 
FREE HEALTH CARE.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Six UF students spent their Win-
ter Break working at medical clinics 
in Lima, Peru.
The students traveled from Dec. 
17 to Dec. 25 with the UF chapter of 
the Medicine, Education, and Devel-
opment for Low-Income Families Ev-erywhere organization, or MEDLIFE. 
They volunteered at mobile 
medical clinics in the outskirts of the South American city, working to give free health care to villagers.
The organization spreads good 
will to different locations every se-mester. They have previously volun-teered in Ecuador and Cusco, Peru.
Rachna Patel, UF MEDLIFE’s 
president, went with the group to Cusco in Spring 2016. On the latest trip, volunteers who went to Lima helped set up medical stations — in-cluding including dental, pharmacy and obstetric gynecologist tables — at the clinics.
The UF biochemistry and eco-
nomics senior said the teeth-brush-ing station was her favorite one.
“A lot of these younger kids don’t 
know how to brush their teeth, and it causes a lot of problems in later life,” the 21-year-old said. “So what we do is we teach them how to brush their teeth, and we give them fluoride, and we have a little song that we do with them.”
Volunteers also handed out free 
medicine to patients at a pharmacy station, she said.
Patel said 64 students attended 
the trip in Spring 2016. She expects a similar number to attend this Spring when they travel to Nicaragua and back to Cusco.
Raul Fagundez, the organiza-
tion’s vice president and the trip director, said going to Peru was his third time volunteering.
Fagundez, a 20-year-old UF bi-
ology junior, said it was not easy spending Christmas away from his family, but he hopes his sacrifice 
helped someone receive medication 
or learn how to treat a fatal disease they could have.
“It’s an opportunity cost that you 
have to pay to help somebody else,” 
Fagundez said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
UF students spend Winter Break assisting othersWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
A married Gainesville couple was arrest-
ed Saturday night after a botched $10 drug 
deal left a man with a stab wound in his chest, Gainesville Police said.
Aaron Young, 36, and Corinna Young, 
26, confronted the man at about 9:30 p.m. after Mrs. Young attempted to buy drugs 
from him but never received them, accord-
ing to a police report.
In the 400 block of S. Main St., Mr. 
Young, wielding a folding knife, stabbed the man in his chest, according to the report. The stab wound was close to a major artery in the man’s heart.
Mrs. Young then repeatedly struck the 
injured man with her hands, according to the report. A witness identified the couple in a show-up, and they were arrested on charges of aggravated battery.
GPD Sgt. John Mazzuca said the man 
was taken to UF Health Shands Hospital with nonlife-threatening injuries.
Mrs. Young told police that she searched 
for the man and confronted him, according to the report. Mr. Young disagreed and said no one took money from her and that the man tried to attack them.
Authorities took the couple to the Ala-
chua County Jail where they remain, as of press time. Mr. Young is being held on a bond of $25,000, while his wife is being held on a bond of $2,000.GPD: Man stabbed in chest 
after failed $10 drug deal
THE PILLS COST  
ABOUT $300 IN TOTAL.
For nearly half a year, a Kmart 
pharmacist stole about 1,400 pre-
scription pills from the store’s phar-macy, the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office said.
Jennifer Taylor Gailey, 31, stole about 700 Soma pills and 700 Ty-
lenol with Codeine #3 pills from 
the store, located on the 900 block 
of NW 76th Blvd., according to the 
report. She told police she needed 
them to sleep.
The estimated cost of the stolen 
pills is $300, according to the report. 
Soma pills are listed as schedule 4 narcotics, which are described as 
drugs with a lower risk of depen-
dence than others. Tylenol with Co-
deine #3 is schedule 3.
Kmart’s loss-prevention office 
discovered the pills were missing 
from the pharmacy. Officials from 
Kmart suspected Gailey was respon-
sible and called police, according to the report.
Gailey told officers she began 
stealing pills because of stress, ac-
cording to the report. Gailey asked 
for a lawyer before police were able 
to obtain a sworn written statement.
Police arrested Gailey on a 
charge of grand theft of a controlled 
substance. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail where she 
was released Thursday afternoon 
on her own recognizance.
Gailey declined to comment. 
A Kmart representative confirmed 
Gailey no longer works for the store.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgACSO: Former Kmart pharmacist steals 1,400 pills
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
MCDONALD’S NOW OPEN
Joneshia Russ, a 16-year-old McDonald’s employee, takes a customer’s order on 
Tuesday afternoon. The East University Avenue restaurant officially opened on the evening of Dec. 31.
Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF ranks among the nation’s top universi-
ties for doctoral graduates and Hispanic and 
Latino students with doctoral degrees.
The Survey of Earned Doctorates, released 
in December, ranked UF sixth for students 
graduating with doctoral degrees in 2015 and 
fifth for Hispanic and Latino students with doctorates from 2011 to 2015.
UF students received 747 doctorates in 
2015, according to the survey. From 2011 to 2015, 192 Hispanic and Latino students earned doctorates.
“There’s really a fairly small number of 
universities that produce a majority of doctor-al degrees, and we’re one of them,” said UF spokesman Steve Orlando about the ranking.
However, because the survey gathers in-
formation separately from the university, it underrepresented the actual number of doc-torates given, he said.
The UF Office of Institutional Planning and 
Research website records the number of doc-torates as 753, Orlando wrote in an email.
UF’s Graduate School dean, Henry Frier-
son, said the number of Ph.D.s produced de-
pends on available resources and the size of 
the department.
Frierson said the largest UF departments 
for graduate students include engineering, chemistry and biomedical.
Increasing the number of doctorate stu-
dents of color is important, he added. 
“You look at a state like Florida, which is 
very diverse, and you’d like to at least have graduate students that reflect that,” Frierson said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF ranks among top in U.S. 
for doctoral graduates
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
With a recently improved Gator-
Connect site, student organizations 
should be able to schedule events more easily.
Student Activities and Involve-
ment released GatorConnect 2.0 on Sunday. The website has a cleaner look, an updated calendar and a custom dashboard for student-
organization officers, wrote Jes-
sica Inman, the associate director of student organizations and campus events, in an email.
“We wanted to make sure that 
the software kept up with our changing student needs,” Inman said. SAI allocated money that would 
have been spent on the old software 
to develop the new website, she 
said. 
Inman said SAI began looking 
for other website options about two years ago, speaking with student leaders, student organizations and campus partners to determine the greatest need.SAI will hold workshops from to-
day to Jan. 23 in Room 2106 of the 
Reitz Union to teach students how 
to use the new site.
Mike Greenberg, the chairman of 
UF’s Accent Speakers Bureau, said he uses GatorConnect about once a month to book tabling and flier-dis-tribution event permits to promote campus speakers. He said submitting tabling per-
mits could be tedious, especially for 
simple events.
“I appreciate any attempt to 
streamline the processes that make 
student life easier,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF unveils overhauled GatorConnect websiteAn Alachua man stole $12,000 worth of 
electronics from a Windsor Park apartment, 
and then used the apartment to meet and have 
sex with women, Gainesville Police said.
At about 5 a.m. Monday, the apartment’s 
owners found a sleeping Walter Gerardo Gon-
zalez, 19, inside their apartment, located in the 
3000 block of SW 27th St., according to a police 
report. The owner said two televisions, a laptop and an Amazon Echo were missing. They told police they had not been home since Dec. 27.
Gonzalez told police the apartment door 
was locked but not fully closed. He said he knocked first and when no one answered he went inside and took a 32-inch television, ac-cording to the report.
Gonzalez said he returned to the apartment 
Monday with the intention to meet a woman he contacted through backpage.com, a personal-advertisement website, according to the report.  
In his phone, police found messages Gonza-
lez sent to women negotiating sex in exchange for money and erotic photos from the women, according to the report. Police found one of the 
missing televisions in a nearby apartment.
Police arrested Gonzalez on charges of bur-
glary, grand theft and giving a false name to of-
ficers. Authorities took him to Alachua County Jail, where he remains as of press time in lieu 
of a $125,000 bond.GPD: Burglar tried to use 
apartment for sexBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·10   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
Landon McFee, a 19-year-old UF Innovation Academy telecommu-
nication sophomore, signs up for the LEAD by IA listerv, a student-run leadership organization during the Spring kickoff event on Tuesday night.
More than 50 students attended the Innovation Academy Spring kickoff event held inside Beaty Commons on Tuesday night.
Hallie Zimmerman, a 21-year-old UF sustainability and the built environment senior, and the president of Innovation Academy Ambassadors,  speaks to IA students at the IA Spring kickoff event. The event was held inside Beaty Commons to introduce students to IA involvement opportunities.
This week, Campus Diplomats is hosting “Welcome to the Gator Nation” to help UF transfer students and those from Innovation Academy and Pathway to Campus Enrollment get involved on campus. Tuesday evening’s gathering included hot cocoa and board games in the Beaty T owers recreation room to “escape the cold. ”SPRINGIN’ IN
Photos by Alan Alvarez, Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-5-16-11-2BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
WHAT A FIND FOR SPRING SEMESTER! 2/2, 3rd floor condo in Campus Edge. Vaulted ceilings, pool view, on campus. Amazing lo-cation. $1000/mo. Spring semester only. Call Aimee 352-514-0482    1-4-16-5-2
HOUSES available soon for August 2017. Walk or bike to campus. Visit www.gaines -
villequalityrentalhouses.com. Text or call 352-339-2342 if you have any questions.    1-6-16-5-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
2BR/1BA APTS ON UNIVERSITY AVEAcross from O'Connell Center. Modern, clean. Available January or earlier. $600/mo. K&M Properities 352-372-1509    1-9-16-5-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
LARGE 2 bedroom with wood floors located downtown. $1150/mth with utilities included. 237 SW 2nd Pl. Call 870-2760     1-10-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    1-4-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       1-4-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
1-4-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      1-4-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-4-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
LIFEGUARDS- THE 300 CLUBPart-time opportunities for lifeguards at pri-vate pool centrally located in Gville. Flexible hours available. Lifeguard responsibilities including pool maintenance. 352-262-4329   1-5-16-3-14
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching 
& aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-13-17-8-
14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 “Scrubs” nurse
married to Dr.
Turk
6 Suddenly
became attentive
11 Letter addition
letters
14 They may be
gray
15 Make one of many
16 __ polloi17 Brown bread18 Files in a recycle
bin
20 Gathering for
February’s biggame
22 Exploit23 Flooring choice24 Irish lullaby
syllables
26 Colombia
neighbor
28 Lead-in for jet or
prop
32 Gritty genre33 Second of three
O’s
35 Job rights agcy.37 Adobe file format38 George
Washington
never slept there
42 Singer Carly __
Jepsen
43 Sainted fifth-
century pope
44 Novelist Deighton
45 Publication sales
fig.
47 1983 60-Down
winner Tom
49 Siouan tribe
53 Big aluminum
producer
55 Yale Blue wearer
57 Took cover58 Heavenly
protectors
63 Fleeting affair
64 “The Maltese
Falcon” actor
Peter
65 French season66 Pianist Watts67 Bubbling hot68 Director
Anderson
69 Seven-__ cake70 What 20-, 38-
and 58-Across
have in commonDOWN
1 Takeout packet
2 Stir to action3 One with a sickle4 Operate using a
beam
5 Houston pro
6 Daily paper logic
puzzle
7 From the
beginning
8 Dough drawer
9 Sch. near the Rio
Grande
10 Iris part11 Occasions that
usually elicit bigsmiles
12 Fair activity for
kids
13 One of the fam19 Waffle maker
21 Baker’s units
25 “Walk me!”27 4 x 4, briefly29 Tighten, as laces30 Nectar eater
31 French “Wowza!”
34 Leather punch36 Miler Sebastian38 Follow too closely39 Mythical hero
with a labor
force?40 Electrified
particle
41 Colorful card
game
42 LG rival
46 Early steam
engine fuel
48 Facade
50 Charlize of
“Monster”
51 Coastal fuel
extractor
52 1950s disasters54 Easy-to-read 
font
56 Marriage
acquisition
59 Perfumery 
that created
Tabu
60 200-lap race,
briefly
61 43,560 square
feet
62 Asian desert
63 Grass coating
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/04/1701/04/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 4, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
1. ASTRONOMY: What makes the 
planet Mars appear red?
2. INVENTIONS: What is the Latin 
meaning of the velocipede, an early 
type of bicycle?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the larg-
est freshwater swamp in North Amer-
ica?
4. MEDICINE: What are vasodila-
tors?
5. HISTORY: When did Canada win 
its independence?
6. MUSIC: Which 20th-century 
bandleader was known as “the king of 
swing”?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What type of plant was used to make the first paper?
8. MOVIES: What was Indiana 
Jones’ trademark weapon in the movie series?
9. LITERATURE: In Shakespeare’s 
play, what is Julius Caesar warned about just before his death?
10. LANGUAGE: What is the name 
for bird eggs that were laid at the same time?
Answers
1. Abundance of iron oxide2. Swift foot3. Okefenokee
4. Medicines that dilate blood ves-
sels
5. 1867
6. Benny Goodman7. Papyrus8. Bullwhip9. The Ides of March10. A clutch
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 2, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.15 Services 16 Health Services 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Was the 2016 season a success for Jim McElwain? See what two of our columnists think, pg. 17Former starting center transferring from Florida
Cam Dillard , who opened the 2016 season as the UF football team's start-
ing center, announced Tuesday night that he is transferring from UF. "But 
instead, " the redshirt junior wrote on Twitter, "I will graduate transfer and pursue my masters. " The Michigan native's transfer destination is unknown. From the time he could walk, 
Stone Forsythe wanted to play for 
the Florida Gators. His father, meanwhile, dreamed of watching his son in The Swamp. Until an 
unusual emergency put both as-
pirations in jeopardy.
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer 
Doreen Forsythe was at the 
park enjoying her son’s play date 
when she noticed a text message from her stepson, Hawke.
Hawke’s father, Ray, had 
been complaining about a pow-
erful headache all morning. Do-
reen noticed that the 42-year-old had taken longer than usual to get ready as a result, but she and 
Hawke didn’t think much of it. 
Ray had experienced headaches 
before. 
Hawke also didn’t think much 
of his father’s mumbling. As they 
sped to Orlando’s Mall at Mille-
nia in Ray’s Porsche for Hawke’s 
eye exam, he remembers his dad grumbling about not feeling well.
“He didn’t seem normal,” 
Hawke said. “He was kinda off.”
But not off enough to say any-
thing. That is, until his father left him at LensCrafters, medical paperwork unfinished, to slurp some pasta at the food court. Carbs always made him feel bet-ter. 
“Where are you?” Hawke’s 
message read. “Daddy’s acting strange.”
Doreen raced to the mall with 
her 2-year-old son, Jaxon, and her teenage daughter, Gracie, in the family’s Chevy Suburban to check on her husband. And yes, the then-high school 
freshman calls his father daddy. All six of the Forsythe children — aged 1 to 25 — do. That in-cludes Stone, Ray’s oldest son and a freshman offensive line-man for the Florida Gators. Back then, though, Stone didn’t have a scholarship offer from Flori-
da. Not yet. (Editor’s note: It’s 
against team policy for Florida 
football freshmen to talk to the press). 
He was at a camp in 
Gainesville that Saturday morn-
ing, Feb. 7, 2015, working on 
earning one. And he had plenty of motivation to do so. 
From the time he understood 
what football was, Stone told his dad that he was going to play for the Gators. When Ray, Stone and Hawke took their annual fishing 
trip to Boca Grande on Florida’s 
gulf coast, they talked at length 
about those ambitions. 
And Ray, who played college 
football at Kent State and UCF 
before a one-year stint in the 
NFL with the Cincinnati Ben-
gals, did everything he could to turn his son’s ambitions into his son’s future. He did the same for 
Hawke. 
“They still,” Doreen said, “I 
would say, secretly idolize their 
dad.”
So what happens when Daddy 
doesn’t come home? BLINDSIDED
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Gators dominated the entire night.Almost.
With 15 seconds left 
in Florida’s matchup with Mississippi, UF guard 
Chris Chiozza stood at the free-throw line af-ter throwing up a brick on his ﬁ  rst attempt. The 6-foot junior calmly went through his routine and 
knocked down the second shot to put the game away, and the No. 24 Gators (11-3, 2-0 SEC) defeated the Rebels (9-5, 0-2 SEC) 70-63 in Florida’s SEC home-opener.
Kasey Hill was a standout for UF, reg-
istering eight points, ﬁ  ve assists, ﬁ  ve re-bounds and six steals.
But graduate transfer Canyon Barry, who 
was 12-of-46 on three-pointers entering the game, stole the show during an otherwise inefﬁ  cient night for Florida’s offense. The 6-foot-6 guard scored 20 points on 8-of-14 shooting from the ﬁ  eld and hit three crucial three-pointers throughout the contest.
“If he doesn’t come off the bench and 
have the game that he has, we could be sit-ting here in the other column,” UF coach Mike White said of Barry. “That’s what he’s capable of in any game. … He didn’t play a perfect game, but he was good.”
The ﬁ  rst half started with both teams 
shooting blanks. The Gators were 3-of-15 from the ﬁ  eld until Barry gave Florida’s of-fense life. After clanking a free throw off the front of the rim, he went on to score nine-straight points, including a pair of triples.
Hill continued what Barry started.With eight minutes remaining in the half, 
the senior guard tipped a pass from Ole Miss guard Rasheed Brooks and rocketed down the court for a wide-open, one-handed slam to put the Gators up 21-14. The stolen pass was one of Hill’s ﬁ  ve opening-half steals. UF  men's basketball team beats 
Ole Miss in SEC home-opener
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Defensive back Quincy Wilson said he will 
declare for the NFL Draft.
Wilson told SI.com on 
Tuesday of his decision to 
skip his senior season. 
“I think Florida did the 
best job they could to pre-
pare me for this moment,” Wilson told SI. “They’ve done everything they could to help build me into the football player I am today.”
The junior defensive back capped the year 
with three interceptions, including a 78-yard 
pick returned for a touchdown in UF's 2016 
homecoming game against Missouri. 
Bleacher Report’s Matt Miller called the 
6-foot-1, 213-pound junior the best corner-back in the draft and predicted the Titans will select him with the 18th pick.
“It’s something I dreamed about since I was ﬁ  ve or six years old, to play in the NFL,” Wilson told SI.
Offensive lineman to declare as wellLeft tackle David Sharpe also announced 
he will leave for the draft Tuesday on Twitter. 
“I just want to thank the University of Flor-
ida for everything they’ve done for me and 3 years of life changing experiences,” he wrote. “Appreciate all the support throughout the years and I’ll always love gator nation!!” 
Defensive back to returnDuke Dawson tweeted Tuesday that he 
will return for his senior season. 
“Boy boy boy after sitting with my parents 
and coaches this was one of the toughest deci-sions in my life at this point, after having a great season and many more to come I will be returning for my senior season!!!” 
The nickel corner is expected to ﬁ  ll Wil-
son’s role on the outside. 
mbrannon@alligator.org 
@MattB_727 Two players announce 
intentions to leave UF for NFL  
Hill
Wilson 
SEE FORSYTHE,  PAGE 19
FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 18
Melissa Smith / Alligator
Stone Forsythe stands 
on the sideline during UF's game against South Carolina on Nov. 12. Forsythe's father played for Kent State and UCF, but Stone always wanted to play at Florida. 16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
NOTABLE 
RETURNING PLAYERS
• Sophomore RB Jordan Scarlett (889 yards 
rushing, six touchdowns)
• Freshman S Chauncey Gardner (32 tackles, three interceptions)
• Sophomore DL CeCe Jefferson (30 total 
tackles, 6.5 tackles for loss)
• Sophomore WR Antonio Callaway (721 yards 
receiving, three touchdowns)
• Freshman WR Tyrie Cleveland (298 yards receiving, two touchdowns)
Emily Cochrane / Alligator
Antonio Callaway gestures during the Outback Bowl. The 
sophomore led the Gators in receptions with seven. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator 
CeCe Jefferson tackles an Iowa ballcarrier during Monday’s Outback bowl. He finished the game with three tackles. 
the running back to beat in Spring training 
camp, finishing the win with 94 yards, in-cluding a 46-yard burst down the right side-
line in the second quarter. 
“This bowl was huge not for the seniors, 
but for the guys coming back,” senior de-
fensive lineman Joey Ivie said. “I think that 
they set the tone for next year … and I don’t 
think there’s going to be much of a drop-off.” 
Next season, Florida will hope its young players can help it advance further from where it finished in 2016, a season that may best be described as unpredictable. The 
Gators started with three straight wins but 
suffered crushing road losses to Tennessee, Arkansas and Florida State. They defeat-ed LSU on the road and compiled enough Southeastern Conference wins to earn a 
berth in the SEC Championship Game for 
the second straight year, only to finish with another loss to No. 1 Alabama.
And heading into Monday’s bowl game 
against Iowa, the season began to look fa-miliar. It looked as if Florida would finish the year with three-straight losses for the second consecutive season. It looked as if UF would be unable to overcome its wealth 
of injuries — at least seven defensive start-
ers were held out or limited against Iowa.
It looked as if coach Jim McElwain’s sec-
ond year at Florida would end on another sour note.
And then, suddenly, it didn’t.“It was challenging dealing with the 
ups and downs. The quarterback changes, people getting hurt, defensive guys getting 
hurt,” Scarlett said. “But that’s what coach 
(Jim McElwain) builds us for. You fight through adversity. That’s exactly what we did.”
And as much as Florida wanted a win to 
end its season, it also wanted a chance to evaluate its returning players for next sea-son.
UF got that chance.“It’s up to the coaches to continue to help 
develop the offense, defense and special teams,” Ivie said, “and turn this program into the dominant program it should be.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Ivie: ‘It’s up to the coaches to... develop the offense, defense and special teams’
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Chauncey Gardner returns an interception against the Hawkeyes. Gardner grabbed two picks in the 
game en route to Outback Bowl MVP honors. 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterAustin Appleby was asked 
a simple question after his ﬁ  -
nal game as a Florida Gator: Where do you see Jim McEl-wain taking this program?
His answer carried little 
hesitation. 
“To a national champion-
ship,” he said. 
C’mon.Is anyone really supposed 
to believe this 9-4 UF football team is any-where close to a College Football Playoff berth, let alone a national championship?
I’m not buying it. If anything, this season should be con-
sidered a step back from the team’s 10-4 record the year prior.
The Gators fell to rival Tennessee for 
the ﬁ  rst time in 12 years, and in collapsing fashion at that. 
They were blown out by Florida State 
for a fourth-straight time, showing the Seminoles still reign supreme in Florida. 
And Arkansas and Alabama embar-
rassed UF as well, showing that the Gators are still light-years behind the SEC West, even if they did take the East crown for a second-straight year. 
Results aside, the program still has one 
huge, glaring question mark at the quar-terback spot. 
Luke Del Rio, Feleipe Franks, Kyle 
Trask or an incoming freshman will start next year, but none of those give fans a reason to get excited yet, either because they’ve proven to be average (Del Rio) or haven’t seen a live snap yet. 
It’s a dilemma similar to that of the 
NFL’s Cleveland Browns, who have sifted through numerous quarterbacks over the past decade. 
Without a clear-cut answer under cen-
ter, how is a program supposed to move forward?
McElwain knows this. After calling this season a 
“heck of a year,” the second-year coach expressed that there are still pieces that need to be added and positions that need to be addressed.
“You know, this was a — 
and still is a — heck of a build-ing process,” he said. “We’re headed to building it, but we’re building it right.”
Yes, injuries were a nagging problem 
for Florida this year. 
Starting linebackers Jarrad Davis and 
Alex Anzalone along with safety Marcus Maye went down for a good chunk of time, just to name a few. 
But every team endures this same ob-
stacle in some form. 
For example, FSU lost top safety Der-
win James for essentially the entire season and still ﬁ  nished with 10 wins, including an Orange Bowl upset over No. 6 Michi-gan. 
One glance at schools like Florida State 
and Alabama, who both crushed Florida, will show you what success really looks like. 
Both teams threw freshman quarter-
backs into the ﬁ  re, and it paid dividends for their immediate futures. 
The Seminoles look poised to remain a 
top-ﬂ  ight team under Deondre Francois’ guidance, and the Crimson Tide is still the No. 1 team in the land even with true freshman Jalen Hurts leading the offense. 
Florida, on the other hand, let its two 
highest-ceiling quarterbacks ride the bench all season.
Success should mean improvement of 
some sort, a step forward for the program.
Sure, UF ﬁ  nished this season with an 
impressive bowl win over Iowa. 
But can anyone really say the team is in 
a better spot than it was a year ago?
I can’t.  UF is no better oﬀ   than it was a year  ago
As Jim McElwain made his 
way off the ﬁ  eld following Monday’s Outback Bowl vic-tory, players snuck up behind the second-year head coach and bathed him in blue Gato-rade. 
That was new.Florida’s resounding 30-3 
victory over Iowa was in bla-tant contrast with 2015’s bowl game, a 41-7 loss to Michigan.
Granted, Iowa is no Michigan. But until the win over the Hawkeyes, 
Florida had legitimately shown no prog-ress. 
It lost to Alabama — badly — just like a 
season ago. It lost to Florida State — badly — just like a season ago. And it also lost to Tennessee and Arkansas, unlike a season ago. 
Still, McElwain managed to lead the 
Gators to a second-consecutive SEC Cham-pionship game, which was clinched by a victory over LSU in Death Valley. 
Those are solid accomplishments, and 
McElwain likes to remind his critics about them when his team fails to perform. But those accomplishments are more-or-less equal to what the team did a year ago. 
McElwain admitted as much, saying UF 
needed the bowl victory to carry momen-tum into the offseason. And his players felt the same way. 
“It’s a really big thing,” running back 
Jordan Scarlett said. “We have Michigan coming up for our opener next year. I think this set us up really good for next year.”
Scarlett’s thoughts echo why 2016 can 
be categorized as a success, even though it wasn’t what Gators fans wanted: It showed improvement. And not just any improve-ment, but improvement on the area of the game that has plagued Florida since the Tim Tebow era. 
“It feels great ﬁ  nally seeing 
the offense come together,” Scarlett said. “I knew we had a great offense all along. It just took a little bit more communi-cation and a little bit of focus.”
Obviously one strong-ish 
showing does not indicate that Florida will have a competent 
offense moving forward, but it gives Flori-da supporters something they really didn’t have much of following the blowout loss to Michigan. 
Hope. Admittedly, it’s a moderate improve-
ment. Hope only carries an SEC coach so far when it comes to job security. 
And admittedly, hope will not equate 
success moving forward.
But just look at Austin Appleby’s re-
sponse when asked where Florida will end up under McElwain: 
“A national championship,” he said af-
ter the Outback Bowl.
It’s expected praise, sure, given that 
Appleby was Florida’s starting quarter-back. But would he have said it following a shellacking like the one the Gators got from Michigan a season ago?
Absolutely not, especially with McEl-
wain now in his second year. 
So while an Outback Bowl title wasn’t 
what Florida was hoping for, it sets UF up for a big season in 2017. That’s more than could be said a year ago. 
If McElwain can’t turn things around 
with the momentum advantage, then he can be called a failure. 
But for now, with some visible improve-
ment evident, the results are still accept-able.   Year two under McElwain wasn’t 
ideal, but it was still successful
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
Patrick Pinak
twitter: @pinakk12NO, THIS IS PATRICK SWEET AND BAUER18   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
“I was just aggressive,” Hill 
said. “Playing the passing lanes — 
the coaches allow me to do that — and I try to use my speed to get 
some steals.”
In addition to Hill, sophomore 
guard KeVaughn Allen went 3-for-
5 and the Gators entered the locker room with a 14-point lead.
Florida struggled in its return 
to the court but managed to hold 
a double-digit lead for much of 
the game, including a game-high 20-point lead with 11 minutes re-maining.
However, with the Gators lead-
ing 65-49, an otherwise vanilla game became a nail-biter. 
Sparked by two straight three-
pointers, Mississippi’s offense 
clicked as the Rebels went on an 
11-2 run to cut UF’s lead to six. 
Florida’s six missed free throws in the ﬁ  nal four minutes didn’t help either.
In the end, though, 21 turnovers and 26.3-percent three-point shoot-ing held Ole Miss short of its goal, and the Gators, who shot just 41.7 percent from the ﬁ  eld and went 11-of-21 from the free-throw line, escaped.
But, despite poor offense and 
dismal free-throw shooting, what was Hill most concerned with?
“The win,” he said. “If we 
would have lost the game, then those things, they deﬁ  nitely would 
have been on my mind.
“But we won, so I’m happy.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 15Florida shot 41.7 percent from the ield but forced 21 turnovers
Grace King / Alligator
Canyon Barry shoots an underhanded free throw during UF's 94-71 win against Little Rock on Dec. 21. 
UF’s top scorers:
Canyon Barry:  20 points (8-of-14 
shooting, 3-of-6 on three-pointers)
KeVaughn Allen: 14 points, 5 
rebounds and 2 steals
Kasey Hill: 8 points, 5 rebounds, 5 
assists and 6 steals. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19  
Ray struggled with as much 
strength as he could muster to fill out 
Hawke’s paperwork, but his hand had been hurting since he sat down. By the time he left for the food court, he couldn’t lift his entire right arm.
“Hawke, I can’t write,” he told his 
son. “Can you fill this out for me? I 
don’t feel good, so I’m gonna walk down to the food court.”
Doreen found Hawke alone at 
LensCrafters when she arrived at the mall 20 minutes later. He needed 
help filling out the paperwork, so Do-
reen stayed with him and Jaxon.
“Gracie,” she told her daughter, 
“go to the food court and make sure that he’s OK.”
Gracie called from the food court 
a few minutes later to say that Ray 
was fine. 
“I’m gonna walk him to the car,” 
she added, “because he says he’s re-ally tired and just doesn’t feel well.”
That wasn’t new. Ray was on 
medication to control his blood pres-
sure, which Doreen said made him 
feel sick sometimes. He also didn’t 
like shopping at the mall much, so 
sometimes he’d go wait in the car. 
Gracie returned a few minutes 
later and blazed over to the Apple store to get a cracked screen re-paired. Doreen, meanwhile, waited 
with Hawke while he got his eyes 
checked. 
“Can you wait a second?” Do-
reen remembers asking the doctor as Hawke was about to get his eyes 
dilated.
She pulled out her phone and 
sent a message to her husband. She 
thought it might be a good idea to check on him again. 
“Are you OK?” it read. “Do I need 
to be worried?” 
He called her back immediately. 
“I think I’m having a stroke,” she 
remembers him telling her. “I can’t move my arm.”
She sprinted out to the Suburban 
and found Ray lying down in the driver’s seat. One side of his face was 
drooping, his right arm was useless and his speech was slurred.
As soon as she saw him, she 
knew he was having a stroke. 
Doreen rushed to call 911 and 
said the ambulance arrived about three minutes later.
Once Ray was strapped in, she 
rode with paramedics to Orlando’s 
Florida Hospital after calling a family 
friend to pick up the kids. 
On the way, she called Ray’s 
mother and other relatives to let 
them know what was going on. But 
after a couple of calls, she couldn’t continue. 
Having to describe her husband’s 
deteriorating condition over and over 
and over again forced her to cry, and 
the crying made it impossible to ex-plain what was going on. 
She switched to texting. The paramedics, meanwhile, 
called in a “code gray,” meaning a stroke patient was on the way. 
When they arrived at Florida Hos-
pital, the same right leg Ray had used 
to walk to the ambulance eight min-
utes earlier was completely limp and immobilized. 
The kids arrived soon after. 
“I was freaking out,” Hawke said. 
“I didn’t want anything to happen to him.”
Ray was wheeled into room 21 
of the Florida Hospital emergency room, where doctors performed the typical tests. They discovered that Ray was suffering from a “hemor-
rhagic” stroke, meaning a bleed in 
his brain. 
It’s unclear what caused the 
stroke, though Ray’s high blood pressure — which he said was under control at the time — may have been a factor.
But in the moment, the cause 
hardly mattered anyway. Ray’s brain was bleeding, and it was impossible to know how long the liquid would continue trickling out.
All the family could do was wait. 
•   •   •
About a year earlier, Bob Head 
opened his inbox to find a barrage of 
emails from Ray Forsythe. 
Head, the football coach at Orlan-
do’s West Orange High School, had 
one immediate thought:
“What in the world?”
Each email contained a video of 
Stone doing a different exercise with Ray early in the morning one week-end during Stone’s sophomore year. 
‘Coach,” Head remembers Ray 
saying, “we’re reaching milestones today.”
He then turned the camera on 
Stone — who currently measures 6-foot-7, 329 pounds — doing inter-val training on the treadmill before announcing that Stone had hit a new high of 315 pounds on the bench press. 
Head approached Stone in class 
the following Monday. 
“Man,” he remembers telling 
him, “your dad is working your ass off isn’t he?”
Stone answered honestly. “Yeah,” Head remembers him 
saying. “He’s killing me.”
The coach shot back. “Keep it going, man,” he told 
him. “It’s gonna pay off for you in 
the long run.”
That was Ray’s goal with these 
workouts, whether with Stone or 
Hawke: The payoff. The scholar-ships. The gridiron glory. 
But Ray wasn’t standing around 
with a clipboard jotting down his sons’ progress. He was sweating alongside them. 
“Before he had his stroke,” Head 
said, “I could see him putting pads on and still getting out and playing.
“When he put his hands on you, 
it’s like a catcher’s mitt. Just huge.”
Back in his high school days, 
Ray was a standout athlete at the same school where his boys eventu-ally played. To this day, he holds the 
West Orange shot-put, discus and 
bench press records. 
His picture still hangs in three 
separate areas — one for winning states as a weightlifter, one for play-ing in college and one for playing in the pros — of the West Orange weight room today. 
But he wanted more for his sons. 
And with Stone, he got what he wanted. 
“He is a monster,” Head said of 
Stone. “And when he gets mad and displays it, ugh. He can be unstop-pable.”
Head remembers one game in 
particular when Stone picked up an opposing team’s defender and slammed him to the turf. He was flagged for holding. 
“How can you call holding when 
he literally picked him up and demol-ished him?” Head remembers plead-ing with the referee. 
“I don’t know,” he remembers 
the referee telling him, “but he really abused that guy, so I called some-thing. Something needed to be called there.”
Even on seemingly excellent plays 
like that one, though, Ray was rarely satisfied with Stone’s performance. He believed the only way Stone — as well as Hawke — would be the best 
was if he was honest and critical at 
all times.
“They’re real close to their dad,” 
Head said. “(He) really drove them and pushed them — especially Stone — really pushed him to become a re-ally good player.”
But when Ray suffered his stroke 
during the spring semester of Stone’s 
junior year, Head noticed an immedi-
ate change. 
“It hit him really hard when his 
dad was going through that,” he said. “He didn’t say a whole lot, but I could see it.”
•   •   •
Coach Head approached Stone in 
class as soon as he heard what hap-pened. He found him with his head down on his desk. 
“I think he was still in shock,” 
Head said. 
He asked all the typical questions. “How’s Ray?”Nothing. “How’s he doing?”Nothing. “How’s he feeling?”Nothing. “Stone would never tell me,” he 
said. “You’re gonna have to pull it out of him.”
Doreen also tried to get Stone to 
talk, but she said he and his brother tend to internalize their emotions. That remains true to this day. 
“You have to speak to him first,” 
UF teammate Fred Johnson said. “He doesn’t really talk to you and stuff 
like that.”
But while he may not have vocal-
ized it, Stone’s actions showed that 
he cared. 
After a one-week stay at Florida 
Hospital, Ray was transferred to a rehab center in Jacksonville called Brooks Rehabilitation. It was about three hours away from home, but 
Stone and the rest of the family went 
up with him on Valentine’s Day and continued to go up every weekend. 
That is, except for Doreen and 
Jaxon. Doreen didn’t want to leave her husband alone, so she made ar-rangements to sleep on a pullout couch in Ray’s room along with 2-year-old Jaxon. 
She was also four months preg-
nant at the time. 
The stroke occurred in Ray’s left 
brain stem, which is why his right side was affected. And as for recov-ery, nothing was certain. Recovery from brain injuries varies by severity, and severity is hard to gauge. 
The only known was that it would take hours of therapy every day to regain his mobility, dexterity and proper speech, if he regained 
them at all. 
“He said it was probably the hard-
est thing he’d ever done,” Hawke 
said. “It made him… mad, because he couldn’t do what he wanted to do.”
Atop the list of things he want-
ed to do was walk the sidelines at his sons’ football games. For now, 
though, he couldn’t stand up. And 
with six months until game day, he faced a daunting road ahead. 
•   •   •
Doreen followed closely behind 
her husband as the physical therapy staff at Brooks worked to walk him down the hallway. 
For the first time in a week, he 
was on his feet. 
“I was a nervous wreck following 
behind thinking he’s gonna fall and oh my gosh, they’re gonna break his neck,” she said, “but they did it.”
Soon after, the staff at Brooks 
asked him what his short-term recov-ery goals were. 
He said he wanted to walk the 
sideline at his sons’ football games, as if that was even a question. 
It took five hours of therapy a day, 
but after two months at Brooks, he was able to walk out the front door with his eyes set on West Orange High School’s 2016 season opener. 
He was so grateful for the staff at 
Brooks that when his sixth child was 
born several months later, he named 
him after the place that allowed him to walk again: Harrison Brooks For-sythe. 
Ray then found himself back 
in Jacksonville on the campus of Trinity Christian Academy a couple months later to watch Stone start at left tackle. 
Hawke was there, too, but as a 
sophomore, he didn’t play at all. 
That is, until the third quarter, 
when coach Head lined him up at left guard, right next to his brother. 
“I thought I would never see that 
happen,” Ray said. 
“Life was completed. All the hard 
work had paid off.”
There was still one more goal he 
had in mind, though: Getting his kids on the field at UF and being there to see it. 
“That’s the ultimate goal,” he 
said. 
•   •   •
Ray looked down at Steve 
Spurrier-Florida Field trying to find his son in the tunnel. 
As he did, the familiar “chomp” 
video blared on the jumbotron. It 
was time. 
“Heeeeere come the Gators!” 
the announcer howled through the 
stadium’s speakers, simultaneously sending the crowd into a frenzy and moving Ray to tears. 
There he was — the son he’d 
spent all those hours preparing, teaching and nurturing — running 
out into The Swamp. 
“God, it was just an unexplain-
able feeling,” he said. “All I could do 
was cry for him”
As he recalls it, Doreen turned to 
him at that point.
“You’re not crying, are you?” she 
asked. 
“Yeah,” he answered. “I’m cry-
ing.”
The moment wasn’t all glamor-
ous, though. Ray had to sit in handi-capped seating, away from the other parents, in his wheelchair to watch the game.
“Did I envision it that way?” He 
said. “No.” 
But those feelings faded as the 
end of the game approached.
After the final seconds had ticked 
away, he made his way to the south end of the stadium by the Bull Gator Statue to greet his son. Unable to walk the long distances to and from the field, he sat waiting for Stone in his wheelchair. 
When No. 72 arrived, Ray got up 
and embraced him.
“I’m sure he said some silly com
-
ment to him,” Doreen said. 
But as Ray recalls it, he didn’t say 
much. Just a simple congratulations was all that was needed. 
Both he and Stone understood the 
significance. 
“There’s not a high percentage of 
kids at two years old or three years old that say, ‘I want to play for Flor-ida,’” Ray said, “and it actually hap-pens.”FORSYTHE,  from pg. 15'Are you OK? ' Doreen's text message read. 'Do I need to be worried? '
Melissa Smith / Alligator 
Stone (right) and Ray Forsythe pose for a photo following Florida's 
win over South Carolina on Nov. 12. 20   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2017
