We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 139 THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
Football team announces injuries
Twenty-two players went down during 
spring practice, pg. 16
New Ramen shop opens, oﬀ  ers half-oﬀ   discount
It opened on Monday at 401 NE 23rd Ave., pg. 4
Students de-stress with help from furry friends
A veteran’s nonproﬁ  t brought puppies to UF on Wednesday, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A man wanted by the U.S. Secret Service 
was arrested near Micanopy on Tuesday with 
dozens of fraudulent credit cards and card-
skimming equipment in his car, police said. 
Edrey Acosta, 27, and Rogelio Delgado 
Gonzalez, 39, were pulled over by police at about 7:02 p.m. for going above the speed 
limit and following too close behind another 
car on Interstate 75 near mile-marker 375, near Micanopy, according to an arrest report. 
Acosta, who was driving, had a warrant out for his arrest for felony vio-
lation of probation, grand theft, assault and criminal impersonation. 
He also had an active 
warrant from the U.S. Se-cret Service for using coun-
terfeit access devices and 
aggravated identity theft, according to a GPD press release.
A police dog smelled drugs in his car, 
prompting police to search the vehicle, ac-cording to the report. 
Inside a wallet in the car, police found 10 fraudulent credit cards. 
Delgado Gonzalez told po-lice he had never seen the wallet before, but police 
said they also found cards 
with his name in the wal-let.
Police also found a 
fraudulent Winn-Dixie card and three more fraud-
ulent credit cards near the driver’s seat, ac-cording to the report. They found a box with 
36 fraudulent credit cards with a credit card 
re-encoder, keys used to open gas pumps, two gas skimmers and gas skimmer attach-ments. Small bits of marijuana were scattered on the back ﬂ  oorboard of the car, police said. 
GPD said Acosta will eventually be put in 
U.S. Secret Service custody. 
Although the investigation is still ongoing, 
according to the press release, both men were arrested on charges of trafﬁ  cking in counter-
feit credit cards and the use of a re-encoder 
on a credit card’s magnetic strip. Both men were taken to the Alachua County Jail, where they remain as of press time in lieu of a $2 million bond for each man.
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  GPD arrests man wanted by US Secret Service
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
SUSTAINABLE SOUNDS
UF’s Baby Gators play drums outside the Reitz Union on Wednesday as part of Sustainable UF’s 
Sustainability Showcase. Read about the event on pg. 4
THE PARKING GARAGE 
MAY HAVE BEEN BUILT 
OUTSIDE BOUNDARIES.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Department of Trans-
portation is investigating the ongo-
ing construction of The Standard at Gainesville and its neighboring park-ing garage.
For the past month, FDOT’s Of-
ﬁ  ce of Right of Way has been inves-tigating the northeast corner of The Standard’s parking garage, on the corner of Northwest 13th Street and West University Avenue, which may have been built too far out, said Troy Roberts, an FDOT communication specialist.
Construction of The Standard, a 
10-story apartment complex with a rooftop pool, is scheduled to be com-pleted in August 2017.“We are currently reviewing all of 
our plans and permits to determine if, ﬁ  rstly, there is a problem and sec-ondly, if there is a problem, what the best course of action is,” Roberts said.
Plans and permits issued by 
FDOT must be reviewed before any decision is made, Roberts said.
“Our Right of Way ofﬁ  ce will 
conduct the investigation in a timely manner and take as much time as they need to ensure that the inves-tigation is done thoroughly and cor-rectly,” Roberts said.
A spokesperson for Landmark 
Properties, which owns The Stan-dard, said the company is aware of the ongoing investigation.
“We are cooperating with the De-
partment of Transportation as it re-surveys the area,” the spokesperson wrote in an email.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org  The Standard garage 
under investigationAcosta
 Delgado Gonzalez
CRIME
By Jenna Gray
Alligator Contributing Writer
First dates can be a pain. 
Among people, they’re often characterized 
by awkward silences or clammy palms.
But among jumping spiders, a pencil-eras-
er-sized arachnid common in Florida, they can 
be fatal.
In the ﬁ  rst study of its kind, a UF researcher has found that cross-species courting attempts 
by male jumping spiders sometimes end with a phenomenon called sexual cannibalism.
Lisa Taylor’s research was published April 
5. Taylor, who researched while pursuing her 
doctorate at Arizona State University, said the 
predatory females will eat a male if he doesn’t interest her or if he is the wrong species, of which there are more than 100.
Despite this apparent violence, Taylor said the ﬁ  ndings don’t hamper her adoration for the bite-size bugs.
“Most spiders that people are familiar with 
are kind of scary and creepy, and just not par-ticularly charismatic,” she said, “but jumping 
spiders are really adorable.”
She said the males courting habits could 
be explained by them being unable to tell the 
different species of females apart. It’s up to fe-males to distinguish the bright, multi-colored males, and they may attack them as an avail-able food source.
Kevin McGraw, an ASU life sciences pro-
fessor, advised Taylor on her study. He said sexual cannibalism is only shown in a few spi-
der species and praying mantises.
He said female jumping spiders have 
evolved to be larger so they can produce and 
carry more eggs, while male jumping spiders are smaller and more agile. UF researcher studies sexual cannibalism habit of spidersSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING? 
The Art of Relaxation by RUB 
Entertainment
Feeling stressed before exams, 
graduation or just need a break 
from the every day? Participants will be creating do-it-yourself sugar scrubs, sand art candles 
and squishy, stress-relieving 
Orbeez balls in the Reitz Union, Room G330, today from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. You will be able to complete all three while enjoy-
ing a soothing environment 
complete with candles, spa music, adult mandala coloring books and more.
Assistive Technology Workshop 
Hosted by BOTS and UF ASEELearn how to help improve the lives of those living with dis-
abilities. Join Building Others 
Through STEM and the UF chapter of American Society for Engineering Education to 
hear Bill Binko, the founder 
of ATMakers.org, present a speech about assistive technol-ogy. After the speech, we will adapt a “My Pal Scout” toy to 
make it more accessible for chil-
dren with disabilities. The event will start today at 6 p.m. in the Mechanical and Aerospace 
Engineering Building B. Food 
will be provided. All majors are welcome, and no experi-ence is necessary. For more in-formation, visit facebook.com/
events/271305729978540.
School of Theatre and Dance pres-
ents William Shakespeare’s ‘King Lear’
The UF School of Theatre and Dance is pleased to pres-ent “King Lear” now through Saturday at Constans Theatre. 
Deception and intrigue are the 
name of the game in “King Lear,” one of the most famous tragedies of all time. Lear is 
ready to step down from his 
throne and sets out to hand over the kingdom evenly to his three daughters, but their response is nothing like what he expects. 
This Dali-inspired production 
reimagines Shakespeare’s heart-wrenching tale of family and the struggle for power where chaos 
and tragedy abound. Tickets for 
the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF fac-ulty, UF staff and seniors, and $13 for students. Tickets are 
available through the University Box Office. More information is 
available at arts.ufl.edu.
GatorNights: Bon Voyage
Give your summer spirit a kick-start as you make your own flip-flops and friendship brace-lets. Rejuvenate yourself with a 
custom sugar scrub or grab an 
appointment for a chair mas-sage. Others will walk the plank if you win casino games, and bring your pool-deck spirit dur-
ing a limbo competition. Set 
your sails for the Reitz Union Auditorium as you catch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. show-
ing of “John Wick: Chapter 2.” 
Pride Awareness Month will be hosting “Opulence: A Drag Show” in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
GatorNights is always Friday and 
always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to par-
ticipate and are allowed to bring 
a maximum of one guest to the event. 
Second annual Fresh off the 
Farm Food Festival
 The Fresh off the Farm is a lo-
cal food festival hosted by Field and Fork Farm and Gardens, 
Student Government, the 
Culinary Arts Student Union, Gator Gardening Club and the Organic Sustainable Agriculture Club. The festival is dedicated to 
celebrating local produce, local 
farmers, and clubs on campus that serve their local commu-nity. This is the second annual 
Fresh off the Farm Food Festival 
at UF, and it is open to everyone. It is taking place at the Field and Fork Gardens by the bat houses on Friday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
For more information, visit bit.
ly/2opAndM.
‘Hymns and Heroes from the 
Movies’Can you imagine your favor-ite epic film without a rousing musical score? Can you imag-ine the final lightsaber duel be-
tween Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan 
Kenobi and Darth Maul in “Star Wars: Episode I — The Phantom Menace” without the pulse-
pounding beat of the drums, the 
driving orchestrated energy cou-pled with the “war-cry” lyrics in the old Welsh tongue? It most likely would not be nearly as 
exhilarating. Join the UF Choral 
Union and the Gainesville Master Chorale as they present “Hymns and Heroes from the Movies” at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. Tickets are $10 to $40 
and can be purchased at per-formingarts.ufl.edu. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
UF Argentine Tango Club tango 
weekendJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for a tango weekend April 
22 and 23. On April 22, there will 
be a potluck at Lake Wauburg with music, free food and good conversation. On April 23, there 
will be a formal tango event with 
a lot of dancing. If you want to learn tango, there will be a crash course an hour before the event. Dancers and non-dancers are 
always welcome. For more in-
formation, visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Law in the Library event  The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present Law 
in the Library: Elder Law — 
What it Means for You and Your Loved Ones on May 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the 
Millhopper Branch Library, 3145 
NW 43 St. Judith B. Paul, Esq., will explain who elder attorneys can help and what services they provide. She will also discuss 
when power of attorney and as-
set protection are needed. This presentation is free and open to the public. Registration is not re-
quired.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  82° LOW  57°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 139THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tiny puppies made Evan Shapiro’s 
day Wednesday.
Amid upcoming exams and end-of-
semester stress, Shapiro spent his af -
ternoon relaxing and hanging out with 
MegaHeart, a dark brown and black 
2-year-old German Shepherd-Chihua -
hua mix. He was one of about 500 who 
stopped to pet, admire and snap pho -
tographs of three volunteer puppies in 
front of Library West, brought by the 
nonprofit Happy Life Entitled Inc.
“Dogs are one of the best stress-re -lievers in the world,” said Shapiro, a 
22-year-old UF political science senior. 
“Better than any medication.”
Happy Life is a nonprofit that aims 
to help college students improve their 
lives by saving money, reducing stress 
and having fun, according to the or -
ganization’s website. The organiza -
tion hosted the puppy-petting event to 
reach out to students, said Jon Ander -
son, the co-founder. 
Anderson, a 71-year-old Vietnam 
War veteran, graduated from UF in Fall 
2016 with a master’s degree in family, 
youth and community sciences. He said 
he wants to use social media to build a stronger community around the world.  
As of press time, about 1,400 people 
on Facebook marked they were inter -
ested in Wednesday’s event, and 458 
marked they would attend.
“This literally can change the 
world,” said Anderson, regarding so -
cial media’s ability to bring people to -
gether.
Kenneth DeMason, a 19-year-old UF 
mathematics and biochemistry fresh -
man, said he’s glad Anderson’s group 
brought the puppies, especially before 
exams.
“I love small dogs,” he said. “They 
make me really happy.”Veteran’s nonprofit brings pups to UF
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
MegaHeart, a 2-year-old German Shepherd-Chihua -
hua mix, was rescued from a kill shelter abroad. She 
was brought to UF on Wednesday.
By Aubrey Hoffman 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Worried about the fate of her 
planet, UF student Victoria Thomp-
son found herself among like-mind-ed peers on Wednesday, as the university celebrated Campus Earth Day.
The festivities, held more than 
a week before actual Earth Day on April 22, gave students a chance to 
learn about the different student or-
ganizations around campus working 
to promote sustainability.
“There is no plan B as everyone 
keeps saying,” said Thompson, a 
22-year-old UF business administra-
tion senior. “This is our home, and 
we have to take care of it, because we keep destroying it.”
The purposefully premature par-
ty aims to catch students’ attention before ﬁ  nals begin to roll out in the coming days, said Matt Williams, the director of UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainabil-ity, which has organized the event for more than a decade.
“We ﬁ  nd that we get much, 
much better participation and in-terest when people aren’t worried about their ﬁ  nals at the same time,” he said.
This year was the ﬁ  rst time the 
celebration was held in front of the Reitz Union, Williams said. With renovations at the Plaza of the Amer-icas, where the celebration is usually held, the Reitz Union offered to co-host the event to get involved with more student organizations.
He said the showcase was an op-
portunity for people to learn about how to get involved with UF’s sus-tainability organizations. 
During the event, students par-
ticipated in craft activities, recycling games and even interacted with a boa constrictor from an animal con-servation group. 
Thompson said she enjoyed how 
the showcase demonstrated there’s more to sustainability than just re-cycling. She said it showed how conservation relates to wildlife, food production and the overall environ-ment.
Among the groups represented 
were the Exotic Animal Club at UF, the UF Surfrider Foundation Club and RecSports.
Savannah Stura, a 20-year-old UF 
biology sophomore, said she was ex-cited to see organizations she could join to better the planet. 
“Growing up, I was always told 
that it was important to care for the planet, and it is really amazing that UF is trying so hard to be sustain-able,” Stura said. 4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Megan Ellis holds Naomi, an 11-year-old boa constrictor, on Wednesday. The 20-year-old UF wildlife conservation and ecology sophomore promoted the UF Wildlife Society club at the Sustainability Showcase.
 UF celebrates Campus Earth Day
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF doctoral student told police ofﬁ  cers 
and academics Wednesday that security in 
schools will likely increase after Monday’s 
school shooting in San Bernardino, California.
Kenneth Noble, a P.h.D. candidate in the 
College of Education, spoke at the Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere at noon to an audience of nine about his dissertation on the history of policing in schools. He ex-plained how an increase in police presence in schools started after the Columbine shooting, 
which happened about 18 years ago.
“Part of the push for a larger police pres-
ence in schools has come from a media por-
trayal, but also the fact that (school shooting and crime) are happening,” Noble said.
He said police ofﬁ  cers in schools work to 
keep the school safe from crime and also im-prove the citizenship and respect for author-ity of students.
Noble expects school security to be more of a topic of discussion after Monday’s shooting, in which a man allegedly shot his estranged 
wife to death before killing himself, according 
to the Associated Press. In the gunﬁ  re, two students were also shot, and one 8-year-old student died after being taken to the hospital.
“With any school shooting, it causes con-
cern,” he said.
In Alachua County, the 16 schools in the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce jurisdiction have at least one school resource ofﬁ  cer sta-
tioned on campus, said ACSO spokesperson 
Art Forgey. He said Eastside High School and F. W. Buchholz High School have two depu-ties.  
University Police also have one ofﬁ  cer sta-
tioned at P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School, Sgt. Tim Peck said. Peck, who attend-ed Noble’s talk, said police ofﬁ  cers are a good resource for schools.
“(School resource ofﬁ  cers) offer a personal 
touch, a personal interaction with a police of-ﬁ  cer,” he said. UF student talks to cops 
about policing in schools 
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After the closure of The Jones Eastside 
in 2014, a new ramen noodle shop sprung 
up in its place on Monday. 
Electric Ramen, at 401 NE 23rd Ave., 
will give customers 50 percent off any 
menu item during its soft opening hours, 
which are from noon to 2 p.m., for the remainder of the week, owner Kon Ying said. 
The Jones Eastside cited the old build-
ing’s infrastructure prompting the closure, according to Alligator archives.
Starting Monday, the restaurant will 
be open from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. It offers 
only three menu items: ramen with pork, 
vegetarian ramen and a steamed bun with pork or tofu. Prices range from $3 to $8.
“I’m content with a small menu,” Ying 
said. “We’ll be the Chipotle of ramen noo-dles. As long as people are happy, that’s good enough for me.” 
The startup price for the entire restau-
rant was less than $20,000, Ying said.
Violet Menendez, 35, is one of three 
staff members working at the restaurant. She estimates that she’s already cooked for close to 250 customers since the store opened last week to family and friends.
“Almost everybody that’s tried it has 
said it’s great,” Menendez said.
Having no experience in the restaurant 
business, Ying said he hopes his personal 
project will bring success in the coming 
months.  
“We’re craft ramen at uncrafty prices,” 
he said. “People can think of us as a dis-tant cousin to Crane Ramen.” 
@chesnesmax 
mchesnes@alligator.org  New ramen shop oﬀ  ering 50 
percent grand opening dealLOCALTHURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
GAINESVILLE ROCK GYM 
CLOSED IN 2015, LEAV-
ING CLIMBERS WITHOUT 
TRAINING FACILITIES.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
When Gainesville’s only rock-
climbing gym closed in 2015, John 
Reger built a climbing wall in his 
barn so his three kids could keep 
practicing.
Reger, who was a member of 
Gainesville Rock Gym for nearly 15 
years, said after structural issues 
led to the gym’s closure, a hole was left in the city’s tight-knit climbing community.
After the 30-year-old realized 
he could only ﬁ  t so many people in his barn, he began working with friends to bring the sport back to Gainesville.
Although plans have not been 
ﬁ  nalized, support is growing for The Knot, a potential new climb-ing gym that aims to be located just north of Depot Park in Gaines-
ville’s power district. If approved 
by developers, it would cost about $2.5 million to build.
“We need a safe, well-lit, clean 
climbing environment so we can really expand the sport here in Gainesville,” Reger said. “That’s 
exactly what The Knot strives for.”Reger said after the local gym 
closed, Gainesville climbers were 
forced to travel hours to other cities 
or states to get their climbing ﬁ  x.
“We have a lot of climbers — up 
to 400 to 500 people in Gainesville 
alone, and that’s a low estimate,” Reger said. “It’s really not difﬁ  cult to get hooked by the sport.”
Mike Palmer, the founder of The 
Knot and a close friend of Reger, said he is working with developers as well as the Gainesville Commu-nity Redevelopment Agency to ﬁ  nd a spot for the gym. Barnes said he’s currently fundraising for the multi-million dollar project.
“We are in a funny place where 
it’s not concrete yet,” Palmer, 34, said. “Since late July of last year we’ve been working on the plans, ﬁ  guring out location, ﬁ  guring out how much it’ll cost and ﬁ  nding money for it.”
Palmer said in order for The 
Knot to become a reality — he has to prove to developers that the community is interested — he is hosting an event at Palomino Pool 
Hall on April 19 to explain plans 
and garner interest for the climb-ing gym.
“The more people we can get 
to show up, come out and support climbing, the more it shows the city and the people who are mak-ing the decisions that we need a climbing gym here,” Palmer said.
Dane Brooks, the head coach 
of UF’s Rock Climbing Club, said a new gym would beneﬁ  t members of the club, who currently train at a 
gymnastics-oriented gym nearly 30 
minutes away from campus.
Brooks, 22, said a climbing gym 
would draw new people to sup-port, and possibly new students to 
the club.
“What we work with right now 
is very limited in terms of be-
ing able to train and climb, just 
because it’s so far away and the 
climbing walls they use are out-dated,” Brooks said. “The new gym would be completely centered around rock climbing.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org Local rock-climbing community rallying for new gym
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Michael Brown, 24, a friend of UF’s Rock Climbing Club head coach Dane Brooks, climbs at Mesa 
Rim Climbing Gym in San Diego, California. Brooks is one of many local climbers hoping to see The Knot, a possible new rock-climbing gym, come to Gainesville.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
When your everything isn’t enough, stand tall 
Seven-hundredths of a second. 
That’s less than the amount of time 
it takes the human brain to recognize 
emotion in facial expressions. It’s less 
than the time it takes to blink. 
An interval as small as 0.07 seconds is usu -
ally trivial and difficult to conceptualize. But a 
couple weekends ago, for my teammates and I 
on the UF Crew team, it meant the difference 
between winning and losing; success and fail -
ure. 
The race was close from the start. 
It was just after 8 a.m. at the Florida Intercollegiate 
Rowing Association Championships in Sarasota, Florida, 
and we were racing in one of the day’s premier events: 
the collegiate men’s varsity eight boat. Eight schools en -
tered this category, but it was a two-horse race. 
For 2000 meters, we traded punches with Stetson Uni -
versity. Back and forth, we vied for first. They got off to a 
quick start. We settled into our rhythm early, and by the 
race’s halfway point, we had drawn even. By the three-
quarter mark, our bow had crept into the lead. 
But during the final sprint toward the finish line in the 
last 250 meters, Stetson came back. We crossed the finish 
line together, 22 seconds ahead of the next fastest boat. 
The result was too close to call. Exhausted, all we could 
do was wait for the video review. 
Initially, the officials were going to call the race a 
dead heat. They had to review the photo finish five times 
before coming to a conclusive decision. While paddling 
back to the dock, we found out what it was.
First place: Stetson University, 6:17.40. 
Second place: UF, 6:17.47.  
No amount of fatigue or physical pain that we expe -
rienced during the race could come close to the stinging 
realization of defeat we felt in those moments. Our goal 
was to win the gold medal. We failed. Something we’d worked hard for since we began training in Au -
gust was crushed by the slimmest of margins. 
This loss hurt more than any other I’ve 
experienced playing any sport at any level. It 
wasn’t just because we had to settle for silver 
and watch another team celebrate with the 
gold medals and trophy we so badly wanted. 
Of the nine crew members in our boat — 
coxswain included — six of us are seniors.
There’s no, “That’s alright, we’ll get them 
next year.” No second chance. This was it. 
In the days since, I’ve replayed the race in my head 
hundreds of times, each time dissecting another part. 
I’ve constantly wondered: What could we have done dif -
ferently? 
Seven-hundredths of a second is such a small margin, 
we certainly could find ways to have improved by just 
a little bit. But in truth, the more I’ve thought about it, 
the more I’ve realized the answer to that question is: 
nothing. 
We raced hard. We gave ourselves a chance. We were 
right there. On that day, it just didn’t happen for us. 
This has all made me think about one of life’s most 
sobering lessons: Sometimes, no matter how much we 
care or how much effort we devote or how hard we fight, 
our best simply won’t be good enough. We can do ev -
erything right and still end up on the wrong side of the 
result. That’s the most difficult part to stomach. It could 
involve anything, like studying hard for an important 
exam and not getting the grade we want, or working tire -
lessly and not landing that dream internship or job. 
We can’t always have control over every situation, 
but we can always influence our own response to it. True 
character reveals itself in difficult times. If you gave ev -
erything you could, stand tall even in the face of defeat. 
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.Why are we afraid 
of being kind? 
Though we may not openly acknowledge it, society 
has engrained in us that it’s “cool” to be mean. We 
all want to believe we are good people; we rationalize 
our actions to ourselves, saying that we are kind to our 
friends, our families and those close with us. We share 
sympathetic videos on social media. We spend time attending 
Dance Marathon and Relay for Life. We don’t go out of our way 
to ruin people’s lives. That — the bare minimum, it seems — is 
enough to justify the fact that we are good people. 
Outward, genuine kindness, not just to friends and family, 
but to strangers, to people who may otherwise dislike us, is 
seen as weak and naïve. As a society, we mock those who are 
unconditionally “nice.” You might value that trait in friends 
and family (since it directly affects you), but chances are, if 
an overly friendly and nice stranger approaches you, you’re 
either second-guessing their motives or thinking they are dim-
witted. If it’s the former, chances are you have used a friendly 
demeanor to get what you wanted and are suspecting the same 
in someone else. If it’s the latter, you might have had your own 
kindness taken advantage of and seeing someone continue that 
attitude seems stupid. 
We pride ourselves on comebacks, drama, holding our 
ground, being self-assured, being “cutthroat” and not being 
afraid to push others out of the way to get what we want. It’s a 
very Westernized notion: The self matters more than the com -
munity. Do what it takes to succeed. Ambition, accomplish -
ments and confidence are prized over humility, niceness and 
gentleness. And not without good reason. This is a very com -
petitive and ruthless world we live in. It’s smarter to be on your 
guard, safer to second-guess the motives of others and more 
secure to harden yourself instead of letting yourself be soft. 
It is a bit cliché to quote The Smiths, but Morrissey has a 
point. “It takes guts to be gentle and kind,” sang the vocalist of 
the band in the somewhat depressing “I Know It’s Over.” The 
2015 live-action “Cinderella” has a similar message of, “Have 
courage, and be kind.” It seems we are aware, as human be -
ings, that being kind is one of the bravest things we can do, 
and yet we dismiss it, deride it and simply don’t do it.
Perhaps it is because the notion of kindness has been so 
distilled with the concept of getting something in return. 
But we’re here to argue, dear reader, kindness is not an -
other resume line. Do not be kind to someone with the expecta -
tion to receive something in return; do it because it is the right 
thing to do. 
Society has taught us differently; if you celebrate Christmas, 
you are told to be a good child and Santa will give you pres -
ents. You aren’t told to be good because it is the right thing to 
do, but because some imaginary fat man will drop off the latest 
Barbie or Hot Wheels toy under the tree. We are aware that 
we act “good” in order to get what we want, so we know that 
others must do the same. There is almost always incentive — 
presents on Christmas, a promotion, an extra bullet point on 
our resumes, the satisfaction of posting on social media, the 
promise of rewards in the afterlife. 
However, being unconditionally kind is perhaps one of the 
most brave and noble things we as human beings can do. It is 
not something we should look down on, just because we do 
not do it ourselves, but something we should aspire to.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with 
the Avenue on Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Dirtybird Producer Ardalan to perform
He will visit GNV on Friday,  pg. 10Local band HEDGES to play show downtown
They will celebrate their new album, pg. 9THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
Gainesville has been deemed a 
tree city by the Arbor Day Founda-
tion for the last 30 years, and for the last three, two local for-proﬁ  t compa-nies have teamed up to provide the 
city with a fun way to celebrate its 
trees around Earth Day.
This Saturday from noon to 11 
p.m., the third annual Tree Fest will take place at Swamp Head Brewery.
This free event is the result of a 
partnership between Solar Impact, Inc., a local solar energy company, and Swamp Head Brewery, the ﬁ  rst 
solar-powered brewery in Florida.
“They’re (Swamp Head) very 
interested in sustainability,” said 
Mike Garrett, the director of sales and marketing at Solar Impact, Inc. “Solar was a big piece of their dream for their new building. We’ve got just enough solar in Swamp Head to make it the ﬁ  rst solar-powered brew-
ery in the state of Florida.”
Swamp Head gave out trees every 
Earth Day before Tree Fest started 
thanks to a partnership with the Ala-chua Conservation Trust.
“We’re two for-proﬁ  t companies 
in the Gainesville area, making a commitment to be here, trying to make a positive impact,” Garrett said. “People are going to Swamp Head anyway. Now when you’re 
drinking, you’re also fundraising.”For every beer sold during Tree 
Fest 2017, ﬁ  ve trees will be planted. 
For every T-shirt sold during Tree Fest 2017, 20 trees will be planted.
Money raised from the sponsor-
ships will directly increase the num-ber of trees planted as well. There 
are currently more than 30 sponsors.“We have a signiﬁ  cant number of 
private individuals who like this idea 
so much that they give us a couple hundred dollars (as sponsors),” Gar-rett said. “One hundred percent of every single dollar we collect from sponsorships goes directly to tree 
planting.”Noon to 5 p.m. is family and com-
munity time at the event. There will 
be free bounce houses for kids, and community partners will be tabling and offering activities. The bounce houses and tabling will shut down at 5 p.m, and live music will run from 
6 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Food will be available from Ci-
lantro Tacos, Pops Brick Oven Pizza, 
LEJ Pretzel Company and DeConna Ice Cream. Cinema Verde, Citizens’ Climate Lobby and Keep Alachua County Beautiful are some of the or-ganizations that will be tabling.
Last year, $60,000 were raised, 
which lead to 60,000 trees being planted. The goal for this year is to raise enough money to plant 75,000 trees.
The 1-year-old longleaf pines will 
be planted by the Alachua County Conservation Trust at the Little Or-ange Creek Preserve, a new nature park set to open in Hawthorne, Flor-
ida.
“If we can throw the coolest and 
most impactful Earth Day party in 
Florida, that’d be pretty nice,” Gar-rett said.  Swamp Head Brewery to combine beer, conservation
LOCAL
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer 
Allen Stokes doesn’t think he’ll ever be fa-
mous.
The 53-year-old lead guitarist of local cover 
band Karmic Revenge has been in and out of local cover bands since the ’80s. His is not a 
tribute band, he is quick to tell you.
While sometimes confused, tribute bands 
and cover bands are two different musi-
cal groups with communities all their own. While tribute bands take on one speciﬁ  c per-sona, cover bands take on any personality they choose.
Stokes and his band are just one example of 
the many people in North Central Florida who 
live out their dreams on the weekends while 
still clocking their 9-to-5 jobs during the week.
But any band, cover or creative, can beneﬁ  t 
from covering songs, UF journalism professor David Carlson said. Among the courses Carl-son teaches is Rock ’n’ Roll and American So-ciety, both at UF and online through Coursera. 
By learning other musicians’ material, per-
formers improve their talents and learn more 
about the music that came before them.
“Imitation is how everyone begins,” Carl-
son said. 
Stokes works as a system operator in the 
Engineering Department at the Malcom Ran-dall Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Although 
he didn’t seriously pick up a guitar until he was 22, Stokes said he never considered pro-fessional musicianship to be a viable career for him.
“My family — we’re farm people,” he said. 
“I lived out in the middle of nowhere in Lake 
City, Florida. I taught myself how to play out 
of a book.” 
On a good week, Stokes and the band re-
hearse once for the gigs that take them around a few times a month. 
Usually clad in a graphic T-shirt, broken-in 
blue jeans and a baseball cap, he plays extend-ed guitar solos during songs like “Tennessee Whiskey” by Chris Stapleton. You’ll know he’s about to start when the lead singer says, “Play it, Allen.”
The concept of suffering for his art is lost on 
Stokes. He doesn’t feel a cover band — or even a local tribute band — is a worthy occupation. 
He would say the music he plays in his 
band is one step up from a hobby; it’s just something he has to do. 
Tribute bands are too narrow for Stokes. 
For him, playing the songs, with little inter-pretation, pays enough homage to the artists without trying to resurrect them.
Because cover songs are not always com-
plete imitations, musicians who only play them can still have a full and creative career, Carlson said. Jimi Hendrix’s famous version of “All Along 
the Watchtower,” for instance, effectively overshadows the fact that the song was origi-nally written by Bob Dylan. The same is true of Aretha Franklin and Otis Redding’s “Respect.”
In some ways, Carlson thinks it might be 
harder to try to sound like somebody else than sound like yourself. Creating a bona ﬁ  de fac-
simile as a tribute band is not an easy thing 
to do. 
While cover bands seem to cloud the live-
music scene, local tribute bands do exist. Some are no longer active, but others exist, like the popular tribute band Heavy Petty, which plays songs by one of the Gainesville greats, Tom Petty.
Another active tribute band, Weeze, is a 
nod to the ‘90s rock band Weezer. But Niles Austin, 35, who plays guitar in the band, didn’t grow up hoping to form it.  
Weeze wants to pursue creative avenues 
but still caters to its base foundation of diehard fans, usually playing one Weezer show each semester. The worst part of committing to a tribute band persona is losing originality in the process, Austin wrote in an email. The time 
spent perfecting the onstage authenticity takes 
time away from producing original music.
“We kind of live in different worlds with all 
of us having original projects and also Weeze,” he said. 
The divide between communities of tribute 
bands and cover bands is a small but notice-able one. Austin doesn’t seem to think the dif-ference in communities is important. What’s important is appreciating music styles that might not be your taste. 
“I’ve always thought that music has the 
power to bring people together, and there is room in the world for all types of music and all types of shows,” Austin said. 
Still, the lines between interpretation and 
innovation can sometimes blur when on stage. 
For the most part, Karmic Revenge plays songs 
as they are written, sometimes embellishing them with guitar solos.
Stokes doesn’t know how long his band 
will last together. To him, cover bands are less of a destination and more of a stop along life’s musical journey. 
Stokes isn’t in this for the money. If he 
were, then he would starve, he said. Because 
playing rates can vary among groups, local 
bands like Karmic Revenge only discuss pay-ments with the venues. 
Although the band does play events for 
money, they’ve never been known to turn a gig down because it didn’t pay. That’s one thing he said he hopes to pass on to his son — that and his love of music. 
“It’s what you grow up with for the most 
part, that sticks with you,” he said.  
There’s no way to learn to play music with-
out ﬁ  rst imitating others. Whether it’s Ludwig van Beethoven, Chuck Berry or Johann Sebas-tian Bach, it’s the way musicians begin. Pre-sumably, overtime, imitating those musicians helps to internalize that talent.  
“It’s an essential step, and some people 
choose to stay,” Carlson said.   
 Local look: The diﬀ  erence between cover and tribute bandsCourtesy to the Alligator
Swamp Head Brewery will host the third annual Tree Fest on Saturday from noon to 11 p.m. 
Each has a musical community
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
By Kirsten Chuba 
and Sierra Leete
Avenue Writers
As you surely know, ﬁ  nals week 
is here. This means lots of time 
studying, right? Or it means lots of time spent thinking about studying, texting your friends about how you 
don’t know anything and, in the 
end, seeking alcohol. Well if the lat-ter is the case, we have you covered. 
Take a sip when…- You realize how much you’ve 
spent at Starbucks this week
- You have to physically ﬁ  ght a 
fellow Gator for a seat near an outlet
- You realize you have 20 lectures 
to catch up on in two days 
Take a shot when…- You start calculating your grade 
to ﬁ  nd out what you need on the ﬁ  -nal and see you need 120 percent to 
get an “A” in the class
- You “accidentally” watch ﬁ  ve 
episodes on Netﬂ  ix when you were 
supposed to be studying
- You make grand plans to go 
study at Library West — but can’t ﬁ  nd parking and have to go home
Finish your drink when… - You watch your friends’ Snap-
chats and see them laying on the beach because they had early exams 
- You hear the music from Mid-
town and shed a tear over what you’ve become
- You start crafting an explana-
tion to your parents about what hap-pened to your grades this semester The ﬁ   nals week edition 
DRINKING GAME
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
Swamp Records is showcasing 
musical talent from Florida on the last day of classes.
A variety of local Gainesville and 
Florida-native bands will take the 
stage for the fourth annual Swamp 
Records Showcase on Wednesday.
The event will be hosted at a 
new venue this year, Heartwood 
Soundstage. Despite the location 
change, Swamp Records Co-Pres-
ident Stephanie Elkin said the es-
sence of the show will remain the same. The event will feature one indoor and one outdoor stage, with 14 acts performing from 6 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
Lavares Joseph, a Miami native, 
multi-genre artist known by his stage name, Twelve’Len, is one of the headlining acts.
Joseph discussed the impor-
tance of celebrating community through art.
“If you’re not the one to high-
light what’s going on in your city or your state, no one else is,” he said.
Student Government Produc-
tions has presented past showcases, but this is the ﬁ  rst year the event is entirely self funded by Swamp Re-cords. They took to the community for sponsorships, Elkin said.
Swamp Records promotes and 
supports local Gainesville music talent, so many of the artists per-
forming already work with the or-
ganization.
While the performing artists 
are primarily from Gainesville, the showcase has acts coming from all over the state.
“We see who is making moves in the Gainesville music commu-nity, who is making moves up and coming, who is exciting, and also extend that beyond Gainesville to the whole Florida music commu-nity,” said Elkin, a 22-year-old UF master’s in international business 
student.
The main goal of Swamp Re-
cords Showcase is to bring the 
community together and highlight the diverse talent in the area, Elkin explained.
“Our music community is so 
unique and special,” she said. “Gainesville is home to a bunch of 
really talented and creative people.”
Local community vendors and 
food trucks will service the event, 
including Soup to Nuts Food Truck, Dank Cakes and Always True Co.
Tickets are $8 in advance on 
eventbrite.com and $10 at the door.  Swamp Records to hold showcaseTHURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
When asked to describe the 
sound of his band, HEDGES, lead 
singer Jason Hedges said his band’s classic rock vibe plays tribute to the inﬂ  uential trailblazers of the genre. 
“Imagine if Tom Petty and Elvis 
Costello had a baby and named it Bruce Springsteen,” Hedges said. “It’s got a lot of rock ’n’ roll, and it’s a little edgy.” 
HEDGES will be performing at 
Heartwood Soundstage, Gaines-ville’s new live-music venue and re-cording studio, on Friday to promote 
the band’s debut album, “Mixed Sig-
nals.”
Hedges, a Gainesville resident, knows ﬁ  rsthand how beneﬁ  cial a live-music venue can be for both lo-cal musicians and fans. 
“Instead of just going to a normal 
venue or bar to see a band, people will actually be able to get a whole experience out of this and even get to relive that experience through watching it again if they’d like to,” he said.
Hedges said that while he’s been 
recorded while performing live in the 
past, it was never to the extent and 
quality Heartwood can offer.
“The Heartwood has great sound, 
it has the best sound in town, and it’s not just limited to music,” he said. “I could see all kinds of events being held there, from comedians to theatrical performances, whatever you could imagine.”
Those who are fans of Hedges’ 
Tom Petty tribute band, Heavy Petty, 
will see some familiar faces on stage. 
Hedges said when he was creating this new band, HEDGES, it seemed obvious to just reach out to his for-mer bandmates, whom he already considered family. 
“We’ve been playing together for 
about ﬁ  ve years now, so we were already very comfortable playing 
with each other as musicians and 
friends,” Hedges said. “We already know each other’s style, so when it came time and I wrote these songs and presented them to the band, they already intuitively knew what to play.”
HEDGES’ remaining active mem-bers consist of Andy Lawniczak, Brian Stevens, Daniel App, Logan Fischer, Stuart Strome and Jonathan 
McCravy. 
“I don’t think there are many 
bands that are doing what we’re do-
ing, which is rock ’n’ roll with hooky choruses,” Hedges said. “There’s metal bands, there’s punk bands, but there’s not a whole lot of what I would call rock ’n’ roll bands.”
The album, which has an overall 
theme of overcoming obstacles, took ﬁ  ve days to record and two years to develop.
“We recorded the album live, and 
we did it analogue, which is kind of old school, so we used a big reel-to-reel tape machine,” Hedges said. “We were trying to re-live our fanta-sies of the bands that we’ve listened to, that our dads probably listened to, and we were trying to make it like 
a classic rock album, and I think we 
accomplished it.” 
Finishing an album is not an easy 
feat, but Hedges said he hopes those who attend the concert or listen to the album can resonate to the music. 
“My favorite music is the music 
that makes you feel good inside, so I hope people like the songs, and I 
hope that they can relate to the lyr-
ics,” Hedges said. “I hope people get it, that it feels good to people, and that they want to listen to it again.” 
The concert at Heartwood is from 
7 p.m. at 10 p.m. Tickets are on sale for $12 on eventbrite.com or $15 at the door. 
 Local band HEDGES to play show, celebrate album release
MUSICBy Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Dirtybird Records has made 
quite the name for itself in the tech 
house world since it’s inception in 2005. The label, founded by techno king Claude VonStroke, seeks to 
present fans with a sound Von-
Stroke describes as “tech funk,” a more lively type of techno that keeps it light and fun.  
Over the past twelve years, the 
notable label has curated various events, such as the annual Dirty-bird BBQ and Dirtybird Campout, while simultaneously bringing 
many heavy hitters on board, from 
Justin Martin to Shiba San. 
This Friday, Gainesville will host 
Dirtybird’s own Ardalan at Over Easy Creative’s bimonthly event, Over Easy and Friends. The event will be held at Gallery Ultralounge, located at 233 W. University Ave., from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tickets range 
from $10 to $15. Bringing the San Francisco-
based artist was a team effort coor-
dinated by Orlando group Alliance Events and Gainesville groups Over Easy Creative and Lucid Nightlife. 
Les Voss, the owner of Over 
Easy Creative and one of the open-
ers for Friday, said Ardalan’s sound 
ﬁ  t perfectly with the events the group normally hosts. 
“Even though we haven’t met 
Ardalan, it feels like we have be-cause the network’s there,” Voss said. “Listening to someone’s mu-sic, you almost get a sense of who they are, and it seems like he ﬁ  ts 
perfectly with our vibe.” 
Voss said Ardalan’s sound is 
lighter than some techno and will 
ﬁ  t well in a setting like the one Gal-lery offers. 
“I’d say it’s a little more play-
ful,” he said. “It’s like a happy techno.”
Voss said Alliance Events con-
tacted him and Matt Collins, the owner of Lucid Nightlife, about bringing Ardalan to Gainesville the day after he plays a show in Or-lando.  
Islam Ahmed, the director of Al-
liance Events, said Ardalan popped up on his radar back in 2015 when he opened up for Martin at an event in Orlando. 
“I watched Ardalan for the ﬁ  rst 
time ever as support, and it was completely mind blowing,” he said. 
“I fell in love with the label, and I 
actually ended up going to Miami the next day with Justin Martin and Ardalan to check out what it’s like to experience that in Miami.”
Hunter Reid, a Tallahassee-
based producer who will also open the show, said he too is an Ardalan fan and also a fan of Dirtybird as a whole. 
“Dirtybird is a huge inﬂ  uence in 
my musical style, and a few of their artists have been the most helpful to me in ﬁ  nding and honing my sound,” he said. 
Reid added he plans to test out 
some of the music from his new ex-tended play Friday and is excited to see what everyone thinks. 10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ardalan will perform  Friday at 9 p.m. at Gallery Ultralounge, with tickets ranging from $10 to $15. 
 Producer Ardalan to 
perform in GainesvilleBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF
● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      5-9-17-16-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, 
hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/
month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    
4-18-17-7-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/
PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14
Bilingual paralegal for Immigration Law 
firm, part-time. 10 - 15 hrs per week. Will train. Must be fluent in Spanish and English. Please email resume to rjjimmigration@gmail.com.      4-13-17-4-14
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
• 
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
• 
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
  
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 Live Longer.
Drive Sober.THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Budget Lawn Cuts
Full service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Jackson with a
1972 Lifetime
Achievement
Grammy
8 Rx watchdog
11 Wing14 Most sober15 Curved part16 Md. neighbor17 Infomercial
promise
19 Md. neighbor20 Powerful 1970s
Pittsburghdefensive line,familiarly
22 Didst whack25 Spot checker?26 One-named
Deco master
27 Swiss river28 Loot31 Storm warning33 Pair35 Algonquin Round
Table member,e.g.
37 Role for Dustin38 “The Card
Players” artist
42 Amu __: Asian
river
44 Verizon
subsidiary
45 Undertaking48 Anka song with
the phrase “Kissme mucho”
51 Soccer chant
53 Loving murmur54 A giraffe has a
long one
55 Org. concerned
with briefs
57 “Swing Shift”
Oscar nominee
59 Sticker on store
fruit
63 Fill in (for)64 Hint in a specialty
crossword, and,literally, what’sfound in 17-, 20-,38- and 59-Across
68 Actor Wallach69 Jeans name
70 Like some lunch
orders
71 “Amen!”72 Inject73 “Seems that way
to me”DOWN
1 “Mrs. Miniver”
studio
2 2001 W.S.
champs
3 Guffaw sound
4 Stop at sea5 Hopkins role6 Scotland’s Arran,
e.g.
7 Perfectly, with
“to”
8 Leak source
9 Diminutive celeb
sexologist
10 Taiwanese PC
maker
11 Pirate on the
Queen Anne’sRevenge
12 Descendants of a
son of Jacob andLeah
13 Venezuelan
cowboy
18 MDL ÷ X21 Studio occupant22 Glum23 Kentucky Derby
time
24 Latin “pray for
us”
29 Barn __30 Light source32 Banquet
dispenser
34 Futon kin
36 Sweet __
39 OPEC member40 Madhouse41 The lot
42 Portrayer of
“McDreamy” on
“Grey’s Anatomy”
43 Typically46 Boozer47 Colorful carp49 Revered50 Was loyal to
52 Picks
56 High point of a
European trip?
58 Foil giant
60 Golden St.
campus
61 Yours, to Yves62 Tie up65 Not of the cloth66 __ Nimitz67 DDE’s command
By Matt Skoczen
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/13/1704/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, April 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16 Health Services
 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDesignated drivers are the greatest24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Lindsey Ronbeck scored four 
goals as the UF lacrosse team 
beat Villanova on Wednesday. 
Read the story, pg. 15.Catcher Mike Rivera sidelined due to injury
Florida's starting catcher will be out for about four weeks, per D1Base -
ball's Kendall Rogers. Rivera started 30 of 31 games for the Gators lead -
ing up to the injury, notching the third-most hits and RBIs the team. The 
Gators open a three-game series with Vanderbilt today. By Skyler Lebron 
Sports Writer 
Florida State's Alex Powers cut 
off the ball and watched. There 
was no point in throwing home. 
UF's Kayli Kvistad had just 
smacked a hit with two outs and 
two runners on base in the bot -
tom of the seventh inning, scor -
ing Justine McLean and giving 
the No. 3 Gators a walk-off 1-0 
win over the No. 1 Seminoles on 
Tuesday night at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium.
"We were saying, ‘Just hit a 
little flare,'” McLean said after 
the win. “And sure enough, Kayli 
saves the game once again.” 
The game-winning play aside, 
Wednesday night’s battle be -
tween the No. 1 and No. 3 softball 
teams in the nation didn’t gener -
ate much offense.
It was a test of elite pitchers 
and stout defenses as the Gators 
attempted to knock out a Florida 
State team that leads the nation in 
batting average.
Senior Delanie Gourley got the 
start for Florida (38-2) and made 
the most of her five innings in the 
circle.
Gourley allowed four hits but 
gave up no runs and didn’t walk 
anyone.
Florida State showcased a 
pitching ace of its own in redshirt senior Jessica Burroughs, who 
made hitting tough for the Gators.
In her 6 and 1/3 innings in the 
circle, Burroughs gave up just 
two hits, putting the Gators’ of -
fense in a funk.
Both teams made changes in the circle later on in the game as 
the coaches prepared for extra in -
nings in a scoreless contest.
Florida turned to sophomore 
Kelly Barnhill, who picked up 
Tim Tebow’s first taste of minor 
league ball can be considered suc -
cessful or unsuccessful depending 
how you look at it. 
On the one hand, the 29-year-old 
has blasted two home runs and totaled five 
RBIs and three runs through just six games 
with the Class A Columbia Fireflies. That 
in itself is pretty impressive for Tebow, no 
matter the pitching. 
Then there’s the negative. He owns a 
.174 clip through 23 at-bats and has struck 
out nine times while only walking twice. 
Those numbers are more what you would 
expect from a player as raw as Tebow. 
Though Tebow has struggled for the 
most part as a member of the New York 
Mets organization, it’s not unusual for 
prospects and future stars to encounter dif -
ficulties at the plate early in their career. 
Here are just a few big names and the 
starts to their careers. Keep in mind minor 
league game logs for older players aren’t 
readily available online:Babe Ruth, first five ca -
reer games in 1914: 2-for-10 
(.200), 1 2B, 1 R, 0 HR, 0 RBI, 
4 K, 0 BB. 
Sorry, I had to. One of the 
greatest hitters of all time was 
actually a pitcher to start his 
career with the Boston Red 
Sox, which may explain this 
stat line. Regardless, I think it’s 
fair to say Tebow won’t go on 
to play 22 years in the bigs or hit 714 home 
runs. 
Mike Zunino, first five games in mi -
nors in 2012: 7-for-17 (.412), 1 2B, 3 HR, 
6 R, 3 RBI, 3 BB, 3 K. 
While Tebow was busy competing for a 
spot with the New York Jets in 2012, Zuni -
no was winning the Golden Spikes Award 
before being drafted third overall out of 
Florida by the Seattle Mariners. Zunino 
hasn’t quite found his stride in the majors 
since, but maybe he’ll stick around long enough to play against his fel -
low Gator. 
Bo Jackson, first five games 
for the Kansas City Royals in 
1986: 8-for-20 (.400), 3 R, 1 
2B, 0 HR, 1 RBI, 5 K, 0 BB, 
1 SB.
Only two Heisman Trophy 
winners have ever played in 
the MLB. The first is a name 
you’ve never heard of, Vic 
Janowicz. The second is one of the greatest 
athletes ever. Tebow doesn’t nearly have 
the physical attributes that Bo Jackson 
had, but he’s a pretty big guy at 6-foot-3, 
255 pounds. Tebow Knows, anybody?
Bryce Harper, first five games in mi -
nors in 2011: 4-for-19 (.211), 2 R, 0 HR, 3 
RBI, 7 K, 2 BB, 1 SB. 
Even Washington Nationals superstar 
Bryce Harper struggled initially with the 
Class A Hagerstown Suns. And look, zero 
home runs from a former first overall pick! “Take that, Bryce” — Tebow, probably 
(not). 
Barry Bonds, first five career games 
with Pittsburgh Pirates in 1986: 4-for-17 
(.235), 3 R, 2 2B, 0 HR, 1 RBI, 5 BB, 7 K.  
Yes, MLB’s all-time home run leader 
didn’t have a home run through his first 17 
at-bats. Tebow has two already. Sure this 
was from Bonds’ first action in the majors, 
but who’s to say Tebow can’t follow in his 
footsteps. Right??
Michael Jordan, honorable mention:
The two have been compared quite a bit 
since Tebow took up baseball. But one was 
the greatest player in his sport at the time 
while the other was a failed quarterback 
that couldn’t last in the NFL. 
However, the only stat you need to know 
is that MJ didn’t hit his first homer for the 
Class AA Birmingham Barons in 1994 until 
his 354th at-bat. Tebow did so in his first 
at-bat. I guess Tebow’s more clutch. HE SHOT 5-FOR-5 ON 
THREE-POINTERS 
AGAINST LSU ON          
JAN. 25. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s basketball 
team will have one less guard 
on its roster at the start of the 
2017-18 season.
Point guard Eric Hester 
announced his intention to 
transfer from the program 
on Wednesday, according to 
multiple reports. 
It is unclear where he’ll 
transfer to.
The 6-foot-3 freshman ap -
peared in 19 games, averaging 
2.3 points, 0.5 rebounds and 
0.3 assists per game in limited 
action off the bench behind up -
perclassmen Kasey Hill, Chris 
Chiozza and KeVaughn Allen. 
Hester provided 5.6 minutes 
per game as a lengthy on-ball 
defender and promising three-
point shooter.
Hester converted 11 of his 19 three-point attempts, including 
a 5-for-5 outing against LSU on 
Jan. 25. 
Hester’s decision opens up a 
spot for incoming freshman Mi -
chael Okauru, 
a 6-foot-3 point 
guard out of 
Raleigh, North 
Carolina, who 
joined the team 
on Wednesday. 
Okauru is 
part of a top-
30 recruiting class that includes 
forwards Isaiah Stokes, DeAun -
drae Ballard and Chase Johnson.
With the addition of the 2017 
recruiting class, the Gators will 
have 13 players on their roster. 
If forward Devin Robinson 
and center John Egbunu decide 
to pursue the NBA Draft, how -
ever, that number could dwin -
dle. 
The juniors have until May 
24 to withdraw their names 
from consideration.  
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgFlorida point guard 
Eric Hester to transfer
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kayli Kvistad bats during Florida's win over Bethune-Cookman on 
March 29. Kvistad drove in the game-winning run on Wednesday.
UF earns walk-off win vs No. 1 FSU
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15
NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
How Tebow’s first minor league action stacks up against other notable players 
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12Hester
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15 
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Gators attacker Lindsey Ronbeck 
was ready when the ball came her 
way during a free-position shot. 
She caught the pass from mid -
fielder Madi Hall and faked. Once 
Villanova goalie Julia Michaels 
flinched, Ronbeck placed the ball in 
the back of the net for her fourth goal 
of the game.
The goal put the Gators back up 
by 10, forcing the running clock to 
continue and ending a 2-0 Wildcat 
run before it could take off.
In an all-around offensive effort 
that saw seven players score at least 
two goals, No. 3 Florida (12-2, 6-0 
Big East) defeated Villanova 19-9 on 
Wednesday at Donald R. Dizney Sta -
dium.
“Credit Villanova for coming in 
here and playing very aggressively 
today,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. 
“They were able to capitalize on 
some of our miscues … I’m pleased 
we were able to make the necessary 
adjustments and come out with a 
win against a very good team.”
Ronbeck led all scorers with four 
goals, and attacker Sammi Burgess 
led the team in points with five off of two goals and three assists. Burgess’ 
second assist set the UF single sea -
son assist record at 32. 
Midfielder Allie Pavinelli added 
three goals, and midfielders Sydney 
Pirreca and Caroline Benitez along 
with attackers Shayna Pirreca and 
Mollie Stevens each scored two 
goals.
The Wildcats (3-10, 1-5 Big East) 
were led by hat tricks from attacker 
Katie Comerford and midfielder Kim 
McDonough, which helped boost a 
Villanova offense that scored nine 
goals against Florida’s defense.
The Gators started out the game 
slow, scoring just three goals in the 
first 10 minutes of the game.
“I think we just needed to focus 
on what kind of sets we were run -
ning,” Ronbeck said. “We were 
given a couple of new sets this past 
week in practice, so I think we just 
need to do a better job of reeling it 
in and really focusing on running the 
plays we have."
However, the Gators’ offense 
soon came alive, building a 13-3 
lead before halftime. By the time 
the Wildcats got their offense going 
with six goals in the second half, the 
Gators were able to match it with six 
of their own, shutting down any Vil -lanova comeback attempt.
Florida’s defense also kept Villa -
nova from scoring more goals. 
The Gators caused 11 of the 
Wildcats' 17 turnovers and won the 
groundball game 28-20. Defender 
Caroline Fitzgerald led the team 
with three caused turnovers and two 
ground balls, and defenders Cara Trombetta, Taylor Bresnahan and 
Aniya Flanagan added a combined 
two caused turnovers and seven 
ground balls. 
On a day where the defense 
was playing strong, Florida’s goal -
ies didn’t face too many shots. The 
Gators’ three goalies faced 15 shots, 
making a combined six saves.“Their offensive players drove re -
ally hard from the top, and they did 
some off-ball cutting, which caught 
us off guard a few times,” Fitzgerald 
said. “I think we adjusted to them 
pretty well."
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators tame Wildcats 
in fourth straight win
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Lindsey Ronbeck (14) cradles the ball during Florida's win over Denver on March 24 at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium. 
where Gourley left off by striking out three 
of the six batters she faced.
Florida State (38-2-1) didn’t see the 
same success when it pulled its own start -
ing pitcher for redshirt sophomore Meghan 
King.King came into the game in the bottom 
of the seventh inning with one out.
Florida’s next batter, McLean, started 
things off by using her speed to notch her 
first bunt single on the year.
Three batters later, Kvistad lined a sin -
gle into right field, giving the senior speed -
ster just enough time to find home plate.
“I did watch (McLean) round third, watched her come in, just to make sure,” 
Kvistad said. “I made sure I touched the 
base and don’t get too excited.” 
The No. 1 Seminoles were shut out for 
the first time in 29 games while the two 
teams played in front of a crowd of 2,574, 
breaking a stadium record that was set last 
Friday in Florida’s series with Georgia.
“It was crazy,” DeWitt said of the envi -ronment. “It’s always cool seeing more and 
more fans come, and I think that it’s just 
amazing that so many people are starting 
to support our sport.” 
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14It was the first time Florida State was shut out in 29 games16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2017
Experience art and culture from 
across Europe during this evening of activities, tours & performances.
Additional support for this evening provided 
by the USF Confucius Institute with the 
participation of the Gainesville Chinese School.HARN MUSEUM OF ARTTonight! April 13, 6 - 9 p.m. 
Sharing  Europe
FREE FOOD + 
ADMISSION image: Giovanni Battista Piranesi, Colonna Trajana (Trajan’s Column), from Vedute di 
Roma (Views of Rome), 1758 Yale University Art Gallery, The Arthur Ross Collection
FOOTBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
As Florida’s Spring camp ends, the 
Gators are addressing injuries before 
the season starts in Fall. 
Gators coach Jim McElwain released 
the team’s injury report on Wednes -
day, listing 22 players who sustained Spring injuries.
Two Gators underwent surgeries on 
Wednesday. Redshirt freshman quar -
terback Kyle Trask had a minor knee 
surgery, and the team expects him to 
recover in about four weeks. 
Tight end-turned-linebacker Camrin 
Knight had an operation on his right 
knee and will have another surgery on his left knee in May. 
In addition, three Gators who were 
injured in Spring are not expected to be 
cleared by the time Fall practice starts. 
Defensive end Jordan Sherit, wide 
receiver Rick Wells and tight end Har -
ry Gornto will be re-evaluated as Fall 
nears. Their injury status may change 
before UF’s first practice. Four Gators suffered injuries in 
Friday’s Spring scrimmage. Defensive 
backs Duke Dawson and Joseph Putu 
along with receiver Tyrie Cleveland 
and tight end Moral Stephens are re -
habbing and recovering. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgInjuries: Trask has surgery, Sherit may miss start of Fall
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Kyle Trask stands at the line of scrimmage during Florida’s Spring game on Friday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
GATORS SPRING INJURIES LIST
• Tyrie Cleveland - WR
• Duke Dawson - DB
• Luke Del Rio - QB
• Harry Gornto - TE
• Kavaris Harkless - OL
• James Houston - LB
• Kalif Jackson - WR
• Glenn Jarriel - WR
• Camrin Knight - LB
• Quincy Lenton - DB
• Dre Massey - WR
• C.J. McWilliams - DB
• Joseph Putu - DB
• David Reese - LB
• Antonio Riles - OL
• T anner Rowell - OL
• Jordan Sherit - DL
• Moral Stephens - TE
• Freddie Swain - WR
• Jeawon T aylor - DB
• Kyle Trask - QB
• Rick Wells - WRTrask
