We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorUber driver arrested
Police say he groped a passenger, pg. 4
Florida Highway Patrol trooper dead
He was struck on a median of I-75, pg. 5Who was Florida’s best male athlete 
of 2016-17? 
See which male athletes were dubbed the best 
by alligatorSports this season, pg. 13VOLUME 111 ISSUE 156 TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Between stern talks, moments 
of relief and poking fun at Gov. 
Rick Scott, the Graduate Assistants United labor union and a UF bar-gaining team made progress on their monthslong negotiations in recent meetings.
Chief among them was adding 
gender identity to the contract’s list of protected statuses against work-place discrimination June 15, said Charles Shields, GAU’s communi-cations chair.
“It was not mentioned at all in 
the original (contract),” Shields said. “Now it’s in there. Now it’s a protected class.”Shields, 30, said gender iden-
tity workplace protections were in place before through UF’s Human Resources Employee Handbook.
However, they were not held in 
a binding contract for graduate as-sistants — UF’s nearly 4,000 grad-uate-student employees including research assistants and teaching assistants.
“Those policies can change, and 
they’re not necessarily governed by a contract.” Shields said, referring to the handbook’s policies. “This just strengthens that protection by getting this in the contract.”
GAU’s 11 members and UF’s 
four representatives  — UF’s chief bargainer, Bill Connellan; the se-nior associate dean of the Graduate School, Paul Duncan; the employee relations director, Brook Mercier; and assistant Kim Bagley — also discussed health care, intellectual property and brieﬂ  y touched on stipend complications during their nearly two-hour long negotiations.
GAU Bargaining Chair Bobby 
Mermer urged for an agreement on ﬁ  nancing Summer health insur-ance for graduate assistants who graduate in Spring.
“The problem is that people 
transitioning from being graduate assistants into faculty or into other jobs — that usually doesn’t happen (instantly),” Mermer told the four administrators during the June 15 meeting. “We don’t want a gap in coverage.”Connellan responded by saying 
the health insurance move would cost UF, and they’d have to discuss it further in future meetings.
Both GAU and UF also hoped 
to reach an agreement on stipend increases June 15, the most contro-versial issue left, Shields said.  
The minimum stipend is an an-
nual $15,000 salary for a graduate assistant working 20 hours a week. However, Shields said many live in “what is essentially poverty” be-cause they work closer to 10 hours a week, making their annual sti-pend about $7,500.
At the meeting, Connellan told 
Mermer and the other 10 GAU rep-resentatives that negotiations on stipends would have to be put on hold because of actions in Talla-hassee.
“The Governor in his inﬁ  nite 
wisdom yesterday vetoed the high-er ed bill,” Connellan said sarcasti-cally. “We’re trying to understand what implications this has for us.”
On June 14, Scott vetoed high-
er education bill SB 374, which outlined permanent boosts to the Bright Futures program. Scott said he felt the bill would “impede” progress at Florida’s 28 community colleges at the expense of universi-ties, according to the Orlando Sen-tinel.
Connellan told GAU he’d need 
to wait to ﬁ  gure out whether Scott’s veto would have an effect 
UF’s Graduate Assistants United protected by gender identity
Stipend talks delayed because of Gov. Scott’s ‘ininite wisdom’ in vetoing higher education bill, negotiators said
SEE GAU,  PAGE 4Grace King / Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Brady Singer pitches during Florida’s 6-2 loss against Bethune-Cookman on June 4, 2017, at McKethen Stadium. Singer broke the CWS Finals record with 12 strikeouts on Monday night against LSU.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Zach Watson did everything he could to catch 
the ball, breaking into a deep sprint towards the warning track as he stared into the glaring sun.
His hair ﬂ  opped up and down with each hur-
ried step, bouncing against his neck as he glided across the center ﬁ  eld grass.
But no matter how fast Watson ran, he had 
no chance at making the play.
The ball was smacked deep over his head by 
Florida third baseman Jonathan India, resulting in a two-RBI ground-rule double in the top of the fourth inning.
The hit ultimately was the difference maker 
for UF in a 4-3 win over the Tigers in Game 1 of the College World Series Finals on Monday night. The Gators have now won four of their ﬁ  ve contests in Omaha this postseason and are one victory away from a national championship.
“We’re here to win this thing,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said. “We’re close, but we haven’t crossed the ﬁ  nish line yet.”
Florida starting pitcher Brady Singer threw a 
College World Series Finals record 12 strikeouts in his seven innings of work.
The sophomore gave up two runs in the sixth 
inning off a solo home run from left ﬁ  elder An-toine Duplantis and an RBI single from designat-ed hitter Beau Jordan.
O’Sullivan then went to closer Michael Byrne 
in the bottom of the eighth following a lead-off double from right ﬁ  elder Greg Deichmann.
Byrne allowed Deichmann to score after giv-
ing up a hit to third baseman Josh Smith but was perfect from that point on, retiring his ﬁ  nal four batters faced to clinch the win.Offensively, the Gators got going in the top of 
the fourth when left ﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy hit a sac ﬂ  y in foul territory to score shortstop Dalton Guthrie.
India then hit his RBI double over the head 
of Watson one at-bat later to drive in right 
ﬁ  elder Nelson Maldonado and ﬁ  rst baseman JJ 
Schwarz.
Florida added one ﬁ  nal insurance run in the 
top of the seventh off an RBI single from catcher Mike Rivera, sending Langworthy home from third and solidifying the 1-0 series lead.
“We’re just playing as a team together, we 
have each other’s backs,” India said about the offense. “We’re doing really well in those situ-
ations.”
Monday night’s result signiﬁ  es the ﬁ  rst ever 
win for UF in the College World Series Finals. 
The Gators were swept in their two previous appearances in the best-of-three slate, falling to Texas in 2005 and South Carolina in 2011.
10 of the last 14 teams to win Game 1 of the 
College World Series Finals have gone on to clinch the national championship, with seven of 
those series ending in sweeps.
Game 2 of the UF-LSU matchup takes place 
tonight at 8 p.m. at TD Ameritrade Park. Fresh-
man Tyler Dyson is expected to get the start.
A win would give Florida its ﬁ  rst national 
championship in program history, while a loss would send the two teams a decisive third game on Wednesday. 
“It’s been a long time since we played LSU,” 
O’Sullivan said. “It’s a really good lineup. I forgot how good it was… Obviously there’s a long way to go in this thing.”
   @dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org  Gators win Game 1 of College World Series Finals
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at 
UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-
lar street artist. In “Layers,” 
Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of urban art. The show will in-clude abstract photographs of 
layers on the 34th Street Wall, 
fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 
9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. For more informa-
tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/
university-galleries.
Vinyasa yoga at the Harn
Get in tune with your breath 
and follow it through standing, 
flowing, seated and balancing 
postures. The Harn Museum of 
Art offers vinyasa yoga classes 
every Tuesday and Wednesday 
through Aug. 2. Please bring 
your own mat, and check in all 
personal items at the security 
desk. A water station will be 
available. For more information, 
visit harn.ufl.edu/blankspace.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s 
Comedy Boom features live stand-up comedy every 
Wednesday night. Local come-
dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 
8:45 p.m. and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will accompany the show.
‘It Comes at Night’ at the 
Hippodrome“It Comes at Night,” a new horror film, will play at the Hippodrome State Theatre 
from Wednesday to Sunday 
as well as July 5 and July 6. The film follows Joel Edgerton, who learns the evil stalking his family home may only be 
a prelude to horrors that come 
from within. Secure within a desolate home as an unnatural threat terrorizes the world, the 
tenuous domestic order he has 
established with his wife and son is put to the ultimate test with the arrival of a desperate 
young family seeking refuge. 
For more information or to buy tickets, visit thehipp.org/event/it-comes-at-night. 
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista Joshua Broadhead, who goes by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for 
Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, 
visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@gmail.com.
'Free Fridays' Concert Series: 
De Lions of Jah
The City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department is hosting its an-
nual series of free, family-friendly concerts in downtown Gainesville. Featuring local and regional musicians, the 2017 “Free Fridays” Concert Series plays each Friday night from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. The series in-cludes a diverse selection of musical genres, with a mix of returning audience favorites and bands new to the series. This Friday's show is the reg-gae band De Lions of Jah. The concert is hosted on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., and is free to the public. For more information, visit gnvcultural-series.org/free-fridays-concert-series.
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens 
guided tourKanapaha Botanical Gardens of-fers a guided tour of the gardens 
on the first Saturday of each 
month from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. 
Non-members charged regular admission, and members are admitted free of charge. The 
gardens are located at 4700 SW 
58th Drive. For more informa-
tion, visit kanapaha.org.
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event during July and August. The gallery features hundreds of quality, handcrafted fine art and crafts created by regional artists. The event will be held at the gallery, located at 201 SW Second Place. For more in-formation, call 352-378-1383 or visit artisansguildgallery.com.
Creative B Movie Series: 
'Things to Come'Friday nights in July, the Florida Museum of Natural History and 
Creative B will host free movie 
screenings and explore the bal-
ance between science and art. 
In honor of the museum’s 100th anniversary, this year’s films in-
corporate a time-travel element 
and include a discussion with 
our expert panel. The museum 
will screen "Things to Come" at 
6 p.m. and have a panel discus-sion with scientists, artists and special effects experts. For more 
information, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/event/creative-b-
things-to-come.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
Gatormania
The largest summer event on 
campus, Gatormania 2017, 
will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. on the North Lawn. Start Summer B with free food, 
giveaways and live perfor-
mances showcasing a variety of student organizations and campus partners. The event is hosted by the Involvement 
Team, the ambassadors of 
the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. For more information, visit 
studentinvolvement.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  85° LOW  70°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 156TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Growing up, Howard Lin always watched 
“America’s Got Talent.”
Earlier this month, on June 13, he got to be 
featured on the show.
The drum major of UF’s The Pride of the 
Sunshine marching band, along with 50 oth-
er bandmates, shot promotional videos and played songs like “Let’s Go Gators” and “You Can Call Me Al” at the show’s live auditions in Jacksonville in January.
Lin, a 21-year-old UF advertising ﬁ  fth year, 
said although The Pride of the Sunshine was not auditioning for the show itself, it was an amazing experience to be a part of.
“On national TV, seeing the university get 
advertised as well as the band was really cool,” he said.
Associate Director of Bands Jay Watkins 
said producers of the popular competition series reached out to UF’s marching band — made up of 365 undergraduate and graduate students with more than 100 different majors — in December. They said they’ve wanted to 
feature a college marching band on their show 
for years.
During the ﬁ  rst weekend of January, a ﬁ  lm 
crew for the show ﬂ  ew to Gainesville to shoot the marching band performing in Ben Hill Grif-ﬁ  n Stadium. For the promotional video, the marching band played the song “Apache” and learned a new routine, where they spelled out “AGT” with their bodies, which Watkins said took a short amount of time.
That same weekend, Watkins said about 50 
section leaders, including Lin, traveled to Jack-sonville for the live auditions.“It puts the Gator branding out in front of 
an international audience, which can only help the university,” he said. 
This is not the ﬁ  rst time UF’s marching 
band has been internationally recognized for their talents. Watkins said the Gator band per-formed at the London 2012 Summer Olympics. The Pride of the Sunshine, which played at the Pre-Opening Ceremony Concert and the Pa-rade of Nations, was the only U.S. band asked to perform.
Watkins said he thinks the performance at 
the Olympics may have helped the marching band get the “America’s Got Talent” gig, since the show — currently hosted by Simon Cowell, Heidi Klum, Tyra Banks, Howie Mandel and Mel B — was originally based in London.
“I think it represents the whole university 
really well,” Watkins said. 
The Pride of the Sunshine alumnus Michael 
Marder, who played the mellophone for the 
band during his four years at UF, said being 
featured on “America’s Got Talent” was just one of the many amazing aspects of being a part of the group.
“It was probably one of the best decisions 
of my life to this point to join Gator band,” the 23-year-old said. “It was honestly the time of my life.” 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
Courtesy to the Alligator
In January, about 50 members of UF’s The Pride of the Sunshine marching band per-
formed at a live audition of “America’s Got T alent” in Jacksonville.
UF’s marching band featured on ‘America’s Got Talent’4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
On Monday, Gainesville Police 
arrested a Gainesville Uber driver 
accused of groping his passenger earlier this month.
At about noon June 14, a wom-
an in her 20s hailed a ride using the cab-service app on Southwest 16th Avenue and was assigned 66-year-old Edwin Ricci as her 
driver, according to a GPD arrest 
report.
When the 
woman got in Ricci’s car, she noticed him 
drive in the wrong direction 
down a dead-
end street. GPD spokesperson  Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-
bias said when the woman alerted Ricci, he told her, “We are just go-ing for a little ride.”
Ricci didn’t turn the car around 
until he noticed the woman had 
been on a FaceTime video chat 
with her friend for the duration of the ride.
Tobias said Ricci asked the 
woman if her boyfriend would be jealous, as he moved his arm to stroke her hair.
After she pulled away, Ricci then shoved his hand down her jacket and grabbed her breast over her shirt, Tobias said.
She then hit his arm, got out of 
the van and ran away.
Two weeks ago, Uber co-
founder and former CEO Travis 
Kalanick took an indeﬁ  nite leave 
of absence and resigned amid investigations into the company over sexual harassment and other wrongdoings, and in the last few months the company has ﬁ  red 20 of its employees over transgres-sions that included sexual harass-ment, according to The New York 
Times.
Police searched for Ricci until 
he eventually agreed to meet them 
with his lawyer and was subse-quently arrested, Tobias said. The woman told police that Ricci was driving a beige 2008 Honda Odys-sey at the time of the incident.
As of press time, Ricci remains 
in the Alachua County Jail where he awaits a Thursday morning court appearance. He faces a mis-demeanor charge of simple bat-tery. 
Uber could not be reached for 
comment.
“Thankfully incidents like 
these are rare,” Tobias said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Please contact us at  352-528-9888 or 
info@willistonanimalgroup.com or 
www.willistonanimalgroup.com Lucy, a Bulldog mix, medium 
sized, 10 years old. She’s mellow 
walks well on a leash. She will need to be an inside dog and possibly an only dog (she is selective with other dogs). She is afraid of storms and needs comfort as she ages. Lucy has a history of heart-worm and will need meds for the rest of her life. WAG will pay for her meds if you will give her the home she so desperately wants and needs.
on the amount of money UF is able 
to offer graduate assistants.
“We don’t know how it affects 
us,” he said. “People are working 
on it right now to ﬁ  gure out what 
it is.”
Shields wrote in an email that 
Connellan and UF are ﬁ  nalizing 
their estimates on how Scott’s veto 
might affect UF’s budget, and that 
GAU expects a counter proposal on the stipends by today.
For GAU members Alec Dinnin 
and John Hames, the stipend issue is vital.
“At the end of the day, it’s about 
putting food on the table,” said Dinnin, a 28-year-old UF political science doctoral candidate and for-mer GAU co-president. “We don’t make a lot of money — at least most of us don’t — so the raises that we’re able to agree to are go-ing to probably be the most signiﬁ  -cant thing to come.”
Hames, a 35-year-old former 
GAU chief negotiator, said the sti-pend issue comes down to fairness for graduate students.
“We do a signiﬁ  cant amount 
of the work and the research and teaching that makes this university what it is,” said Hames, who will graduate in August with a doctoral degree in anthropology.Hames said since 2014, the 
across-the-board stipend raise packages from UF have steadily declined. He said when you look comprehensively at the fees, low stipends and rising costs of health care in certain areas, it becomes clear the fee issue has not been ad-dressed in a fundamental way.
“President Fuchs is partly evalu-
ated based on how successful he is at raising stipends for graduate as-sistants,” he said. “If you look at 
the record over the last couple of 
years, it’s mixed at best.”
The current contract between 
GAU and UF expires June 30, and they have until then or early July 
to ﬁ  nish negotiations, according to 
Alligator archives.
As of Monday, they’ve reached 
tentative agreements on 20 of the contract’s articles, leaving only 
three more that need to be nego-
tiated, Shields said. Once they’ve 
reached agreements on all 26 ar-
ticles, GAU will host a referendum 
for graduate assistants to vote and 
approve the new GAU-UF contract, 
which will last through July 2020.
“We’re going to ﬁ  ght for a good 
stipend raise,” Hames said. “The university really needs to step up.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgGAU,  from pg. 1Contract lasts until 2020SHE IS THE FIRST WOMAN 
TO BE APPOINTED.
By Salim Douaihy
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF has chosen the ﬁ  rst female 
chair of the UF Investment Corpora-
tion, or UFICO.
UF alumna Rebecca Patterson 
will serve as the chair and oversee 
the institution’s almost $1.6 billion 
endowment. The corporation, a subsidiary of 
UF, was founded back in July 2004 to provide oversight and manage-ment of the university’s invest-ments. These investments are meant to safeguard and grow the endow-
ment and ensure sustained funding 
for the university’s operations.
Patterson is the third chair of 
UFICO, said William Reeser, the CEO and chief investment ofﬁ  cer of UFICO. 
UF President Kent Fuchs appoint-ed Patterson as the chair in February shortly after former chair, Andrew Banks, stepped down from the posi-tion. At the June 8 meeting of UF’s Board of Trustees, the board unani-mously voted to ratify Patterson’s 
appointment to a six-year term.  
“Both the board of the corpora-
tion and the staff of the corporation 
are very enthusiastic about Rebec-ca,” Reeser said. “We are looking forward to the leadership.”
In her current role as manag-ing director and chief investment ofﬁ  cer of the New York wealth-management ﬁ  rm Bessemer Trust, Patterson oversees more than $100 billion in assets. Patterson’s contin-ued success in the ﬁ  nancial industry 
has earned her a spot on American 
Banker’s 2014, 2015 and 2016 lists of  “The 25 Most Powerful Women in Finance.”
“To attract a person of Rebecca’s 
talent to serve the UFICO board at this moment in time is absolutely extraordinary,” said Thomas Mitch-ell, the vice president for develop-ment and alumni affairs at UF. “We are elated.” 
Working alongside the 12-mem-
ber board of other industry leaders, 
Patterson will provide investment 
counsel to the university and advise on potential investment strategies.
“She has agreed to assume the 
leadership role of UFICO during an important and critical time in the university’s history,” Mitchell said.
New chair selected for UF’S Investment Corporation
GAU-UF Contract
Passed articles:RecognitionReserved RightsConsultation
Appointments
Evaluation
Eval /f_ileWorkloadLOA
Tuition Program
Health InsuranceUnlawful Discrimination
Copyrights
Outside Activities
Use of Facilities
Union Dues
Insurance DeductionsMisc.Employee Rights
Discipline
Grievance
TotalitySeverabilityDuration
Articles still up for review:
Academic FreedomStipendsDe/f_initions
Once GAU and UF reach agreements on all articles, the contract will be voted on and approved by graduate assistants.GAU - UF Contract
Passed Articles:
Recognition
Reserved Rights
Consultation
Appointments
Evaluation
Eval File
Workload
LOA
Tuition Program
Health Insurance
Unlawful Discrimination
Copyrights
Outside Activities
Use of Facilities
Union Dues
Insurance Deductions
Misc.
Employee Rights
Discipline
Grievance
Totality
Severability
Duration
Articles still up for review:
Academic Freedom
Stipends
DefinitionsUber driver who police say 
groped passenger arrested
Ricci
TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
1
1312111098765432The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 7.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
July 10 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews 
and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator 
offices in a meeting open to the public on July 27 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida Highway Patrol trooper 
died the evening of June 17 after be-
ing struck by a car on the median of Interstate 75.
Sgt. William 
Bishop, 52, was investigating a car crash that hap-
pened at about 
6 p.m. on south-
bound I-75 near 
mile marker 403, 
about 7 miles north of Alachua, 
said Lt. Patrick Riordan, an FHP spokesperson.
While investigating the scene on 
foot with at least one other trooper, a second car crash at about 6:30 p.m. sent a vehicle straight at Bishop, Rior-
dan said. Emergency medical person-
nel brought him to UF Health Shands Hospital, where the FHP veteran of 30 years was pronounced dead at about 8:30 p.m.
Unfortunately, distracted driving, 
or “rubbernecking,” kills troopers on roadways more than it should, Rior-dan said. In his 32 years of law en-forcement, he said he can recall about eight troopers who were killed from 
head-on collisions on the highway 
while outside their patrol cars.
“Driving is an active process,” 
he said. “It goes back to some good old-fashioned basics — be aware of what’s happening outside your ve-hicle.”
Bishop leaves behind a family — 
his wife and adult son. As is protocol 
with families of fallen servicemen, 
Riordan said, ofﬁ  cers will remain with them to offer assistance and support through Bishop’s funeral and service arrangements, which were planned starting June 19.
“We care for the family to the 
best of our ability,” he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgFHP trooper dies after 
being struck by car on I-75
Sgt. William Bishop
By Victoria Pavlock
Alligator Contributing Writer
This summer, the Levin College 
of Law will visit 10 cities to raise 
$1.5 million for student scholar-ships.
Whitney Smith, the assistant 
dean for messaging and outreach of the college, said the initiative was started by UF alumnus Hugh Culverhouse Jr., who pledged to donate $1.5 million for scholar-ships if UF raises the same amount by the ﬁ  rst day of classes in Au-gust.
UF has less than 60 days left to 
meet the “Culverhouse Challenge.”
Smith said the challenge was 
started to build off UF’s drastic rise in law school rankings.
She said since last year, UF Law 
moved from 48 to 41 on the latest U.S. News & World Report ranking of national law schools.
UF Law Dean Laura Rosenbury said this is the biggest jump of any law school in the top 50.
She said this rise in rankings 
was because of improving creden-tials of the 2016 class.
The median LSAT score rose 
from 157 to 160 for the starting class of 2016, and the median GPA rose from 3.5 to 3.6, Rosenbury said.
She said the number of appli-
cants also nearly doubled in com-
parison to the prior year, which 
allowed UF to create the most di-verse and qualiﬁ  ed starting class.
“I’m conﬁ  dent we’re on an up-
ward trajectory, so we’ll break into the top 30s next year,” Rosenbury said. “It’s just a question of where in the 30s we’ll end up, and obvi-ously recruiting another great class 
is key to that effort.”
Culverhouse said he is conﬁ  -
dent UF will complete the chal-
lenge.
He said he hates student debt and created the scholarship initia-tive to help students choose the career they want after law school.
Rosenbury said the average 
debt of students is $84,000.
“I think because our tuition in 
the past had been so low, we just didn’t have a culture of offering scholarships,” she said, “and now, even though our tuition is still lower than most law schools, it’s higher than it was, so we have to 
change our culture.”
The college will travel to Jack-
sonville, Tampa, New York City, 
Atlanta, Orlando, Washington D.C., West Palm Beach, Fort Lau-derdale, Miami and Gainesville.
“It’s a time to socialize and cel-
ebrate, but I also want our Gator Nation to know that with the schol-
arship money we can ensure that 
we can give access to the most promising students regardless of their ﬁ  nancial circumstances,” Rosenbury said. UF Law travels to raise $1.5 
million for scholarshipsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORDemocrats had no chance of taking Georgia
Last Tuesday, Republican Karen Handel defeated 
Democrat Jon Ossoff in the most expensive congres-sional race in U.S. history. The special election filled the vacancy left by current Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price in Georgia’s 6th congres-
sional district, located just outside of Atlanta. Newt Gin-grich took the 6th district in 1979, and it has been held by Republicans comfortably since. However, since President Donald Trump won the district by a close margin of only two percentage points in 2016, Democrats saw an oppor-tunity to try to flip it.  
Handel, Georgia’s former secretary of state and a resi-
dent of the district, knew her prospective constituents were not enthused by Trump or his platform. Instead of following the lead of many Republican politicians and echoing Trump’s talking points, she distanced herself from him and ran on a platform that mirrored Republican ideals, not Trump’s.  
Ossoff, a former documentary filmmaker who lives 
outside of the 6th district, also knew the residents in this district were not energized by Trump. Consequently, he tried to make the election a referendum on Trump. Os-soff shaped his platform around the ideas of the #resist movement, which includes no message other than to op-pose Trump. Wealthy Democratic donors in California and New York heard about this attempted Trump referendum and decided to funnel money into the race. In fact, only 14 percent of Ossoff’s $8 million in individual donations came from within the Peach State compared to 56 percent of Handel’s $2.1 million.
Handel, who spent $4.5 million, ended up winning the 
district by a wider margin than Trump did over Hillary Clinton, earning 134,595 votes (51.9 percent) compared to Ossoff, who spent $23.6 million, earning 124,893 votes (48.1 percent). At a glance, this appears to be a gain for the Democratic Party in a consistently Republican district, but when the previous district election results are consid-ered, this theory is dispelled.  
In the 2016 election, Tom Price earned 201,088 votes, 
defeating Democratic challenger Rodney Stooksbury, who earned 124,917 votes. Stooksbury is a mystery. He’s im-possible to find on the internet. He had no website and did not actively campaign in 2016. He raised a grand total of $0. Yet, this mystery man earned 23 more votes than Os-soff, who spent a congressional election national record of $23.6 million. So $23.6 million actually lost votes for Dem-ocrats, showing what a calamity this election really was.  
These counterintuitive results call into question exactly 
how Ossoff lost with so much more money in an elec-tion that was supposed to be a referendum on the least popular president in American history (according to his approval ratings). Unfortunately for Ossoff, the election was not so much a referendum on Trump than it was on an even more unpopular figure: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.
Pelosi, a long-tenured legislator who enjoys immense 
popularity with the progressives, is despised by much of the rest of the population, including moderate Democrats who see her views as too extreme. Her current position as House minority leader allowed Handel to tie a vote for Os-soff to a vote for Pelosi. While there could have been mul-tiple reasons for Ossoff’s failure, Democrats in the House have started to question whether Pelosi’s unpopularity is to blame. Considering Democrats have lost all five special elections since Trump’s inauguration, the evidence may be stacking up against her. Pelosi has defended herself as a “master legislator” and “astute leader” and declared that “the decision (to step down) isn’t up to (her opponents).” But unless the Democrats win the House majority back in 2018, Pelosi’s fate, no matter how much of a “master legislator” she is, will no longer be in her hands.
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column appears on 
Tuesdays.Jeronimo Yanez 
deserves to be 
behind bars 
On Friday, Jeronimo Yanez, the Minnesota police officer 
who fatally shot Philando Castile during a traffic stop last year, was found not guilty of second-degree manslaugh-ter.  
To refresh your memory, Castile was pulled over in 
July 2016 for a broken taillight while driving with his girlfriend Diamond Reynolds and her four-year-old daughter. 
When the officer instructed Castile to retrieve his license and 
registration, Castile informed him he was going to get his paper-work from the glove compartment of his car. He also told the of-ficer there was a firearm in the glove compartment but that he was not reaching for it. Despite the fact that Castile was a licensed gun owner and informed the officer about the weapon, Castile had one major factor against him: his skin color.
The officer fired six shots, shooting Castile, who ultimately 
died in front of his girlfriend and her daughter. Reynolds captured the incident on Facebook Live, showing Castile’s innocence. Con-sidering this, why was Yanez found not guilty?
The case brought up the nationwide debate about police con-
duct toward black people. Many civil rights activists believe Yanez did indeed shoot Castile out of fear that Castile would shoot him, as his defense stated. However, the reasoning behind his fear was Castile’s skin color. Yanez’s acquittal is both a travesty and a dev-
astating flaw in the American justice system.
Not only were Yanez’s actions racially motivated, but his skills 
and duties as a police officer were also flawed. It is our belief 
that when an officer joins the police force, his or her first concern should always be ensuring the safety of their constituents, not themselves. Yanez did not exemplify the selflessness that every officer should. He was selfish. He was careless. He is a murderer.
Yanez’s incompetence seemed to be something all sides of the 
case could agree on. He was skittish, unprofessional and generally 
inept at his job. Everyone agreed Yanez made a mistake. However, 
his inability to execute his duties should not clear him for murder. 
This case gave the criminal justice system an opportunity to 
change the way African-Americans are treated and how their lives are valued. Sadly, the system failed them once again. The evi-dence against Yanez was both plentiful and undeniable. He not only took the life of an innocent man but endangered the lives of Reynolds and her daughter.
The defense for Yanez was weak. He was the cop who invoked 
his racial bias and feared for his life. He said he smelled marijuana and believed Castile looked similar to a man wanted for a robbery. Not only were these accusations just assumptions formulated by the ignorant officer, but the last time we checked, possession of marijuana and robbery were not crimes punishable by death. 
According to The New York Times, Yanez’s lawyer even said, 
“We’re not saying that Philando Castile was going to shoot Officer Yanez. What we’re saying is that he did not follow orders. He was stoned.” 
We of course recognize driving under the influence is illegal 
and that Castile should not have done so. Nonetheless, reacting slowly or being high, once again, are not acts punishable by death.
This case was just the most recent in a series of unfair rulings 
for police officers. In recent years, officers in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Oklahoma, have been found not guilty of manslaughter. 
The acquittal of Yanez continues to perpetuate the bias of 
many trigger-happy police officers and further devalue the lives of African-Americans. The ruling is a mockery of the criminal justice 
system and an insult to efforts of equality in the U.S.
Column
As I drove back to Gainesville af-
ter about two months ﬁ  lled with travel and relaxation, I came to a 
horriﬁ  c realization.
I listened to music and thought 
about how much I love UF. I thought about 
how much the university has impacted me 
and how much I’ve grown here. Then, my 
horrifying realization dawned on me. I’m old.
I recognize I’m not that old. However, 
I know a few incoming freshmen, includ-
ing my brother. I’ve been able to relive the 
exciting and terrifying transition of gradu-ating from high school and moving to col-lege. I’ve realized this is simultaneously 
so near and so far away from where I am 
now.
I have had the time of my life while at 
UF, and coming to terms with the truth that the end is on the horizon is both a relief 
and slightly depressing. While I’m excited to see where life takes me after 
I cross the stage at graduation, I don’t think I want this chapter 
to end. I recall my Preview ex-
perience, move-in day, the ﬁ  rst day of class. More importantly, I remember the ﬁ  rst time I stood 
up for myself and my beliefs in a 
college setting.
I remember meeting people 
I now call my best friends. I re-member ﬁ  nding my passions — things 
I never thought I’d care about have im-
pacted me. I remember each moment that I discovered a part of myself, thanks to the people and experiences I’ve encountered 
during my time here. 
As I walk around campus and see all 
of the new students making friends and 
learning new things, I can’t help but envy them. I can’t say I want to do it all over 
again — because it was a lot of work and I’m kind of tired — but I treasure 
those moments more than I ever thought I would.
I know I’m not done with UF, 
but I can see the end that I never acknowledged. If you’re a fresh-man — or an upperclassman who 
needs to remember this — and 
ﬁ  nd yourself reading this, please don’t take this time for granted.
Enjoy it. Make mistakes. Don’t 
be afraid to try new things, and step out of 
your comfort zone. Go to that party. Take 
that notoriously hard class if it interests you. If you want to do something, do it. 
There are some things you can rea-
sonably be afraid of, but don’t let fear inhibit you. Many meaningful things I’ve done were scary at ﬁ  rst, like approaching professors, applying for things I thought I wouldn’t get and talking to complete 
strangers. You won’t be successful in ev-erything you attempt, but I can say failure 
is one of the greatest gifts. I wouldn’t be where I am without failing.  
College is like a roller coaster, with mo-
ments that feel like college isn’t worth the stress or that you don’t belong here. But then, you’ll feel like everything’s falling 
into place, and you ﬁ  nd a way to make UF 
your home. I’m not going to pretend like the last two years have been perfect, but they have been incredible. 
To those just starting their journey, I 
wish you the best of luck. My fellow stu-dents also realizing their academic mortal-ity, I’m sorry. I’ll see you at the retirement home, which I ﬁ  gure is leaving Midtown at 
11:30 p.m.
Taylor Cavaliere is a journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Tuesdays.TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgComing to terms with the fact that your college years are fleeting8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
#3
Best universities 
for technology 
transfer /five.numr#6
Top colleges 
doing the most 
for low-income 
students /six.numr
#6
Production 
of doctoral 
degrees /seven.numr/one.numrLondon-based Times Higher Education  (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf)   /two.numrCenter 
for World University Rankings (2017)   /three.numrForbes  (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf)   
/four.numrAssociation of University Technology Managers    /five.numrMilken 
Institute  (2017)   /six.numrNew York Times (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf5)   /seven.numrSurvey of 
Earned Doctorates  list of all U.S. universities (/two.tf /zero.tf/one.tf5)
 Thanks 
      Gators,
Your hard work. Your dedication. 
You’re what makes the Gator Nation great.
And we’re reaching higher. With your help, we’re  
heading for the top 10. 
www.ufl.eduTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.orgBlue Crystal Cornucopia, Inc.
  Tuesday-Saturday 11 am-7 pm | 1801 NE 23rd Ave., Gainesville, FL 32609 | (352)-378-2583Among Health Benefits Of Cbd Oil
- Reduces blood sugar levels
- Anti-inflammatory- Reduces risk of artery blockage- Relieves pain, anxiety , and depression- 100% legal in all 50 states- Alzheimer'sMedicine for the People
We sell Scared-Threads Clothes, 
Gem Stones, Jewelry , Crystals and  
Essential Oils. 
 
Visit our art gallery.
Mention this ad and get 10% off 
your first purchase.
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
CRIME
HE FACES A POSSIBLE 
MAXIMUM OF 70 YEARS 
IN PRISON.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida Panhandle man ad-
mitted to stealing at least $35,000 
worth of jewelry and shipping them out of state.
In a federal courtroom in Pen-
sacola on Thursday, 39-year-old Mark Joshua Mitchell pled guilty to 
stealing jewelry between June 2015 
and July 2016 and then transport-
ing those items to either Missouri 
or Louisiana on seven separate 
occasions, said Amy Alexander, a 
U.S. attorney’s ofﬁ  ce spokesper-
son.
Victims reported that Mitch-
ell took more than 15 diamonds, including engagement-ring multi-
carat diamonds, Van Cleef & Arpels 
rings and pendants, cash and Mexi-
can gold coins, according to Mitch-
ell’s plea and indictment records. 
Mitchell stole items from victims 
in Santa Rosa Beach, Panama City Beach and his hometown, Destin.
For each of the seven counts of 
interstate transportation of stolen 
property, Mitchell faces a maxi-
mum of 10 years in prison, Alex-
ander said.
In Gainesville, police see cas-
es involving jewelry theft a few 
times a year, most involving older 
victims, said Gainesville Police 
spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Tobias said the most notable 
Gainesville case he can recall was from January 2011, when a 
92-year-old woman and Gainesville 
resident was held at gunpoint and robbed of $38,000 during a mas-sage at The Atrium at Gainesville 
retirement community, according 
to The Gainesville Sun.
“We do ﬁ  nd that a majority of 
these cases involve the elderly as 
victims,” Tobias said.
Mitchell’s hearing is set for 
Sept. 18. As of Monday, he is being held in the Santa Rosa County Jail with no bond.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgMan pleads guilty to at 
least $35,000 of theft
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — The 
Supreme Court is allowing Presi-
dent Donald Trump to forge ahead with a limited version of his ban on travel from six most-
ly Muslim countries to the U.S. 
Trump hailed the decision as a “victory for national security,” but it’s likely to set off a new round of court disputes over anti-terror efforts and religious dis-crimination.
The justices will hear full ar-
guments in October in the case 
that has stirred heated emotions 
across the nation and pointed re-bukes from lower courts saying the administration is targeting Muslims. Until then, the court said Monday, Trump’s ban on visitors from Iran, Libya, Soma-lia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen can be enforced if those visitors lack 
a “credible claim of a bona ﬁ  de 
relationship with a person or en-tity in the United States.”
The ruling sets up a potential 
clash between the government and opponents of the ban over the strength of visitors’ ties to the U.S. A senior ofﬁ  cial said plans already had been written to en-force the ban aggressively. But immigrant groups said relatively few people try to enter the U.S. without well-established ties. Those groups said they will be sending lawyers and monitors back to American airports, where the initial, immediate imple-
mentation of the ban in January 
caused chaos and confusion.
State Department spokesper-
son Heather Nauert said the ban would be implemented starting 72 hours after being cleared by courts. That means it will take ef-fect Thursday morning.
The 90-day ban is necessary 
to allow an internal review of screening procedures for visa ap-plicants from the countries, the administration says. That review should be complete before Oct. 2, the ﬁ  rst day the justices could hear arguments in their new term.
The ban will have run its 
course by then, raising a ques-tion of whether the justices will even issue a decision in the case or dismiss it because it has been overtaken by events.
The court asked both sides to 
address the issue of timing, along with questions about whether the ban is aimed at Muslims, the impact of Trump’s provocative campaign statements and federal courts’ authority to restrain the president in the area of immigra-tion.
A 120-day ban on refugees 
also is being allowed to take ef-
fect on a similar, limited basis.
Three of the court’s conserva-
tive justices said they would have 
let the administration apply the bans without the limits imposed by their colleagues.
Justice Clarence Thomas, 
joined by Justices Samuel Alito and Neil Gorsuch, said the gov-
ernment has shown it is likely 
to win the legal case in the end. Thomas said the government’s interest in preserving national security outweighs any hardship to people denied entry into the country.
Trump hailed the court’s or-
der as a “clear victory for our na-
tional security,” especially after 
lower court rulings that blocked the travel ban in its entirety. He said in a statement that his “num-ber one responsibility” is to keep Americans safe.
Trump travel ban partly reinstated; 
fall Supreme Court arguments setBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
3BR/2.5BA new upscale condo in Haile 
Plantation Market Square. Modern finishes throughout: custom cabinetry, granite coun-tertops, stainless steel appliances, wood floors in open living area, tile bathrooms. On bus route, walking distance to Publix, restaurants, shopping, tennis courts, and more. Two units available. Each unit is ap-prox. 1450 sq/ft. Private balcony avail with one unit. $1875/month for each unit. Avail July, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.      6-27-17-5-2
3BR/3BA Beautiful Home with Vaulted Ceilings, Laminate Wood Floors. Located Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hospital, and VA Medical Centers. Screen Porch, 2 Car Garage, Fenced Yard, Energy Efficient. W/D, Lawn Main, and Pest Control all Included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Aug. $1875/month. Contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.    6-27-17-5-2
** LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION **
1 and 2 bedroom apartments all located close to UF and Downtown. All unique and some with paid utilities. Call 352-870-2760.    8-21-177-13-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
One bedroom of four bedroom condo for 
rent in Countryside @ UF Condos. $425 per room two available 352-870-2792 Text or Call     6-29-17-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
CASHIER NEEDEDExperienced, dependable, reliable. References needed. Backgound check & drug test required. Foodmax Foodstore, 404 S Main St, 32601. 352-338-1338   6-27-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      6-27-17-4-14
Need a Job? We're hiring! Stop by The 
Village Career Fair!
When: June 28th 9:00am - 2:00pm
Where: 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, 
FL 32606
Hiring for: RNs, LPNs, CNAs, Companions, 
Servers, Kitchen Porters, Cooks
6-27-17-3-14
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
Realm nightclub coming summer B
Hiring bar staff, security, promo people
Contact via
www.facebook.com/realmnightclub    6-29-
17-3-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '17
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
6-29-17-3-14
Content Writer. P/T. The primary focus is on 
content for web pages, blogs & social posts. Great opportunity for journalism students. sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com or (352) 339-3156. $9.5/h     7-11-17-5-14
CARPET CLEANING TECH
WANTED - FT
Clean driving record, clean criminal history. 
Call 352-396-4207     7-13-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) for Active Quadriplegic
2 to 3 Part Time Caregivers needed12-16 hrs week / $17-$20 hr / 6-10AMAssist w/ADL activities. CNA or higherDetails: caregiverprovider@cox.net    7-11-17-4-14
ASSOCIATE ATTORNEYThe Tampa office of Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith is looking to hire an Associate Attorney to join a growing office with a na-tional law firm. The ideal candidate has 1-3 years experience. First and third party civil litigation experience is preferred. Excellent academic credentials, writing and advocacy skills, and a current Florida bar license is required. Competitive salary and benefits of-fered. Please email resumes to Jason.Hall@lewisbribsois.com     6-29-17-2-14
 Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Near Campus   
Research A ssistant  / Internship
email  1  page resume to 
science@mammacare.org     7-6-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-17-25-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
ACROSS
1 Valuable quality
6 Place for 
piggies
9 Water carriers
14 Honking birds
15 Rebel Guevara16 Atlantic __17 *Time for
discount drinks
19 Durable suit
fabric
20 Song from Verdi
21 Funny bone’s
place
22 John or Paul (but
not Luke)
23 *“Homicide: Life
on the Street”Emmy winner
26 Hunch over27 Homebuilder’s lot
size
28 Read the riot act
to
29 King’s scary St.
Bernard
31 Scissors sound35 Chewie’s
shipmate
36 Old group of
movie kids that,in a way, theanswers tostarred cluescould be amember of
39 Mex. neighbor40 Poems of praise42 Scoffing sounds43 “Death of a
Salesman” familyname
45 Slack off47 In a funk48 *Dictator’s
authority
53 Hot Wheels
toymaker
54 Wrestling’s __
Flair
55 “Not gonna
happen!”
58 City in upstate
New York
59 *Kiefer
Sutherland’s “24”role
61 Green energy
type
62 Inquire63 Hard-hit 
baseball
64 __-level job
65 Cry with a fist
pump
66 Easy pacesDOWN
1 Ottoman honorific
2 Charbroil
3 Antique photo
feature
4 Language in
Sevilla
5 Mystery writer
Josephine
6 It may be tied7 Mitten part
8 “Programs! Git __
programs here!”
9 Big phony
10 Very cold periods
11 Western
Australian port
12 Sharp-eyed bird13 Lip-curling look18 Plucked
instrument
22 Part of 60-Down24 Extinct flightless
bird
25 Mumbai bigwigs
26 Whole bunch
28 2017 “Twin
Peaks” airer, for
short
29 __ brewery:
independent beermaker
30 “That’s just nasty!”
32 Big cheese
33 “What more 
can __?”34 Frying utensil
37 Trailer rental
company
38 Post-sunset effect41 Toy racer on a
track
44 Like many
summer concerts
46 Chicago Fire Mrs.47 __ turtle soup48 Get a laugh out of49 Stick passed on
a track50 Clown’s leg
extension
51 Remove pencil
marks
52 Mining tools56 Amanda of
“Something’sGotta Give”
57 Slips up59 Noisy bird
60 Layered
sandwich, 
briefly
By Herre Schouwerwou©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/27/1706/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Snake, footwise
5 Instagram and
Pinterest
9 Bad thing to draw
during a test
14 Saboteur, e.g.15 Fruit used in
alcohol flavoring
16 Home for 66-
Across
17 Criticism18 Wedding dress
insert
19 Impatient20 Start of a one-
liner by 54-Across
23 Tiresome type24 Cavaliers, on
scoreboards
25 One-liner, part 229 One-liner, part 332 Paella pot33 NFL receivers36 Actress Skye37 Upset38 One-liner, part 4
40 One-liner, part 5
42 Stands for
funerals
43 Black and Red44 “__ of Light”:
1998 Madonna
album
45 Words to a traitor
46 One-liner, part 649 End of the one-
liner
50 Andean root
vegetable
51 California tourist
attraction
54 Standup comic
known for one-liners
59 Stereotypically
haunted area
62 One-eighties63 Flash, maybe64 Absorbed
eagerly, with “in”
65 It may affect a
sentence
66 Sea eagles67 “__ Stardust”:
David Bowiesong
68 Chihuahua
sounds
69 Afternoon fare
DOWN
1 Switch letters2 Tentacled
creature3 Start of a
Norwegian line
4 Northern Illinois
University city
5 “Off the Court”
memoirist
6 Splash sound
7 A pro brings his
own to the table
8 Flower parts9 Switch partner
10 “Ready if you
are”
11 Circle segment12 Med. research
agency
13 One in, or on, a
chain
21 Calvin and 
Anne
22 Born, in France26 Not as healthy27 Colleague of
Ruth and Sonia
28 Source of some
issues?
30 Comforting
sound
31 Bad picnic 
omen
33 Area sometimes
called “The Roofof the World”
34 “Downton Abbey”
lady35 Number of
Maravillas del
Mundo
37 Email again39 Showing
impatience,digitally
40 __ shooter41 Fink43 Linguistic origin
of Kwanzaa
46 Wee one47 Live in48 Hydrophobia
52 “Napoleon
Dynamite”
sidekick Sánchez
53 Hockey setting55 Repulsive56 Dickens schemer
57 Those, in
Chihuahua
58 [Horrors!]
59 Woodworker’s tool60 Prefix with cycle61 It’s game
By Christopher Shaw©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/16/1706/16/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, June 16, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 14 Help Wanted
1. How many times has Los Angeles 
Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw led 
the majors in strikeouts for a season?
2. When was the last time a reliever 
won a Rookie of the Year award?
3. Six Division I college football 
players have recorded three seasons of at least 1,500 rushing yards. Name 
four of them.
4. Who was the first Harlem Globe-
trotter to be enshrined in the Basket-
ball Hall of Fame?
5. How many times have the Colum-
bus Blue Jackets reached the playoffs in the franchise’s 16 NHL seasons?
6. In 2016, Stanford won its second 
straight NCAA Division I men’s soc-cer title. Name the last school to win 
back-to-back titles.
7. Ohio State won its second straight 
NCAA men’s volleyball champion-
ship in 2017, becoming the third con-secutive school to win back-to-back titles. Name the other two schools.
Answers
1. Three times — 2011, 2013 and 
2015. 
2. Craig Kimbrel of the Atlanta 
Braves in 2011.
3. Tony Dorsett, Herschel Walker, 
Travis Prentice, Garrett Wolfe, LaM-ichael James and Donnel Pumphrey.  
4. Marques Haynes was inducted in 
1998.
5. Three times — the 2008-09, 
2013-14 and 2016-17 seasons.
6. Indiana, in 2003-04.7. California Irvine (2012-13) and 
Loyola Chicago (2014-15).
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 26, 2017 King Features Weekly Service20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Zaire, Fruhmorgen ofﬁ  cially enrolled at Florida
Former Notre Dame quarterback Malik Zaire and former Clemson offensive 
lineman Jake Fruhmorgen are ofﬁ  cially enrolled at Florida, UF announced on 
Monday. Zaire will be eligible to play this season as a graduate transfer, while Fruhmorgen will sit out the 2017 season as a junior due to NCAA transfer rules.Fourteen Gators earned 
spots in the IAAF World Championships this weekend, including senior Eric Futch in the 400-meter hurdles. Read the story, pg. 14.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsStaff Report
In this edition of the Alligator Awards, we 
debate which UF male athlete was the best of 
the 2016-17 season. Sports writers Mari Faiello, Andrew Huang and Morgan McMullen join alligatorSports editors Dylan Dixon and Jake 
Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion to debate 
the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
 Dixon: Allen led the Gators to new heightsAfter back-to-back seasons of lackluster play 
from the Florida men’s basketball team, UF regained national prominence this year with its trip to the Elite Eight.
While the group’s success can’t be attributed 
to one single player, I’d be pretty remiss if I didn’t give KeVaughn Allen a good amount of the credit.
Allen was lights out for the Gators during 
2016-17, leading them in both points per game (14.0) and free-throw shooting percentage (.883), as well as ﬁ  nishing in the top three in minutes per game (28.6), three-point shooting percentage (.370), assists (53) and steals (45).
The Little Rock, Arkansas, native scored 
in double digits 24 times this season as well, becoming the ﬁ  rst player since Kenny Boynton to eclipse 900 points over his ﬁ  rst two years at Florida.
Although their Sweet 16 victory over 
Wisconsin will always be remembered by Chris Chiozza’s dramatic buzzer beater, the Gators couldn’t have won the game without Allen 
scoring a career-high 35 points to keep them 
within reach of the Badgers.
My colleagues might try and convince you 
otherwise, but in my opinion there’s no way this award could go to anyone other than Allen. The sophomore more than backed it up with his play this season.Dreilinger: Faedo's dominance has helped 
Gators continue legacy
There is only one word needed to describe 
junior starting pitcher Alex Faedo this season: dominant.
He is Florida baseball’s Friday night starter, 
the ﬁ  rst pitcher the other team sees entering a weekend series. And in most cases this year, he left the opening contest with a win. The Tampa native is 9-2 in 19 starts this year, 
and the Gators went 11-3 in the regular season in games that he started. He has also allowed one earned run or less in 13 of his 19 starts this season.
One top of that, he's leading the team in 
strikeouts (157) and innings pitched (123.2) and has the lowest ERA (2.26), hits-allowed total (95) and runs-allowed total (39) among UF’s starting pitchers. But what separates him from the rest is his 
play in the postseason, which allowed the Gators to reach the College World Series for the third straight year.
Against Wake Forest in Game 1 the NCAA 
Super Regional, Faedo provided four scoreless 
innings before he was pulled due to a rain delay. 
He pitched again in Game 3, this time coming out of the bullpen as Florida’s closer to send the Gators to Omaha.
In the College World Series, he provided back-
to-back 3-0 wins over TCU where he pitched at least seven innings in each, struck out 11 both times and allowed ﬁ  ve hits combined. 
Faedo was even drafted 18th overall by the 
Detroit Tigers in the 2017 MLB Draft, a testament to his incredible season.
Faiello: Holmes never relented from the 
best
The difference between TJ Holmes and other 
athletes in this debate is that he never settled for mediocrity. This season, he proved through his hard work and personal achievements that being 
the best isn’t good enough. The senior athlete had 
a stellar season from start to ﬁ  nish with multiple highlights and records that separated himself from the rest of the crowd.
The SEC Indoor Championships back in 
February helped Holmes establish himself as a crucial part of UF's track and ﬁ  eld program. He set a personal record of 47.42 seconds in the 400-meter race at the SEC Championships.
The NCAA East Preliminary saw Holmes stand 
out with another personal best. He competed in the men’s 400-meter hurdles and claimed a time of 49.10 seconds in May. This was the best way Holmes could train for the tough competition he faced in June.
At the NCAA Outdoor Championships, 
Holmes set more records with his teammates as 
I was in your shoes nearly two years 
ago.
I had turned 18 a few days prior and 
was ready to start my time at the University of Florida as a Gator just like you are now.
I made new friends, explored campus 
until I knew my way around blindfolded and went out to play pickup football with people I had met that day.
My roommate and I even bonded over 
playing FIFA ‘15 on Xbox One nearly 
everyday. We made it our way of solving disagreements.
That summer was a lot of fun, but I’m 
about to give you two pieces of advice that 
will make your time at Florida even more enjoyable.
The ﬁ  rst is to make the most out of 
one of the best athletic universities in the country.
Get those season tickets for football, sit 
in the Rowdy Reptiles section at basketball games and watch Olympians compete in 
swimming and track and ﬁ  eld.
You could also go to a Friday night 
baseball game, watch the recently crowned 
national champion women’s tennis team defend their title, cheer on the gymnastics team at its meets on Friday night and be amazed by what you see.
I remember sitting in the stands on 
a hot Saturday in 2015 for the Florida-
Tennessee football game where the Gators 
took the lead on an Antonio Callaway  Alligator Awards: Who was Florida’s best male athlete of 2016-17?
A message to the Class of 2021Grace King / Alligator Staff
KeVaughn Allen shoots a free throw during Florida's 84-83 win over Wisconsin in the 
Sweet 16 of the NCAA T ournament on March 24, 2017, at Madison Square Garden.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson celebrates with fans after Florida's 20-7 win over South Carolina on November 12, 2016, at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Jakes on a Plane
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 15
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJakeANDRES ARROYO (800-METER)
WILL CLAYE (TRIPLE JUMP)
KERRON CLEMENT (400-METER HURDLES)
MARQUIS DENDY (LONG JUMP)
ERIC FUTCH (400-METER HURDLES)
TJ HOLMES (400-METER HURDLES)
GENEVIEVE LACAZE (3000-METER STEEPLECHASE)EDDIE LOVETT (110-METER HURDLES)
KYRON MCMASTER (400-METER HURDLES)
UGONNA NDU (400-METER HURDLES)
HAKIM SANI BROWN (100-METER, 200-METER)
STIPE ZUNIC (SHOT PUT)
NOVLENE WILLIAMS-MILLS (400-METER)
CHRISTIAN TAYLOR (TRIPLE JUMP)GATOR QUALIFIERS FOR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
Courtesy of UAA Communications
UF hurdler Eric Futch races during the NCAA Division I Outdoor Track and Field 
Championships on June 10, 2016, in Eugene, Oregon.
TRACK & FIELD
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
A grand total of 14 Gators—past, present 
and future—earned the chance to compete in 
the IAAF World Championships this August in London following strong showings at the 
USATF Outdoor Championships in Sacramento, 
California. The four-day meet concluded this Sunday.
Current GatorsFive of the 14 berths were in the 400-meter 
hurdles, and just two of those came from Gators on the 2017 roster.
Seniors Eric Futch and TJ Holmes both 
made the cut on Sunday.  Futch took ﬁ  rst place behind a time of 48.18 seconds, while Holmes smashed his personal best with a third-place ﬁ  nish of 48.44 seconds.
Another senior, Andres Arroyo, earned a 
spot in Puerto Rico’s 800-meter lineup.  Arroyo was one of six Gators competing for another country.
In the USATF Junior Championships, 
freshman Brandee’ Johnson took ﬁ  rst place in the women’s 400-meter hurdles, securing a place at the upcoming Pan American Junior Championships in Lima, Peru.
Johnson also took home the bronze medal 
in the 100-meter hurdles.
Notable athletes not to make the team 
include freshman Grant Holloway and redshirt senior Kyra Jefferson.  Both were less than 
one-tenth of a second from earning a spot on 
Team USA’s roster.
Future GatorsTwo out of three members of the Gators’ 
2017 recruiting class found their way to world 
teams.
In Japan, Hakim Sani Brown cruised in the 
100- and 200-meters.In the British Virgin Islands, Kyron 
McMaster made the cut in the 400-meter 
hurdles.
Cory Poole was a silver medalist in the 
Junior Championships.  Poole’s time of 49.88 seconds earned him a spot in Peru alongside 
Johnson.
Former Gators
Marquis Dendy, a student-athlete at Florida 
from 2012-2015, qualiﬁ  ed for Team USA after posting a mark of 8.39 meters in the long jump.
Will Claye (2010-2011), a three-time 
Olympic medalist, will represent the United States in the triple jump.
Eddie Lovett (2011-2014) also made the cut 
in the 400-meter hurdles competing for the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Kerron Clement, competing alongside Futch 
and Holmes in the 400-meter hurdles, fell to seventh after advancing past the semiﬁ  nals with a top-ranked time of 48.61 seconds.
Clement (2004-2005), along with Christian 
Taylor (2009-2011) in the triple jump, had 
both already secured spots on the world team 
because of their reigning-champion status in the IAAF Diamond League.
International GatorsAside from Arroyo, Sani Brown and 
McMaster, only former Gators competed overseas.
Stipe Zunic (2011-2015) made the cut for 
the shot put in Croatia, and Ugonna Ndu (2010-2013) qualiﬁ  ed for the 400-meter hurdles in Nigeria.
In Australia, Genevieve LaCaze (2009-2012) 
made the cut for the 3000-meter steeplechase.  Novlene Williams-Mills (2003-2004) took care of business in the 400-meter in Jamaica.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org   Fourteen athletes will represent Gators on world teamsTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
they captured the second consecutive 
team title in Oregon at the beginning of June – just 16 days before he was announced as a member of Team USA for the IAAF World Championships. 
Holmes raced with Nick Uruburu, Eric 
Futch and Grant Holloway in the men’s 4x400 relay and recorded a time of 3:02.16, beating their previous record and making them the No. 10 quartet in school history.
Holmes ﬁ  nished off his strong 
season at the USATF Outdoor Championships. He clocked in at 48.44 
seconds in the men’s 400-meter hurdle 
race, shaving off 0.66 seconds from his previous personal best from the NCAA East Preliminary meet. Holmes is currently ranked No. 4 on the list of 400-meter hurdlers in school history. His weekend in Oregon earned him a spot on Team USA.
While others might try to persuade 
you as to why their athlete is the better choice, it’s clear that TJ Holmes was the athlete that never quit, even when he was deemed the best.
Huang: Jordan Scarlett made RB 
relevant again for UF
How can you pick an offensive 
football player as the best male athlete 
at UF?
Especially on a team known for its 
defense?
Here’s how: The Florida Gators, 
whether ESPN reported on it or not, 
were dependent on running back 
Jordan Scarlett all season long.
In UF's nine wins last season, 
Scarlett averaged a healthy 5.5 yards 
per carry, over 80 yards per game and scored ﬁ  ve of his six touchdowns on the year.
Down the stretch, the Gators 
became increasingly ravaged by injuries, opening the door for someone to step up and deliver when the team needed them most.
Scarlett basically said “hold my 
beer” and took care of business like great players do. In the team’s ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve victories, he averaged 106 yards 
per game, 5.6 yards per carry and set 
a career-high 134 rushing yards against South Carolina.
His 889 yards and six touchdowns 
in 2016 were comparable to the sophomore seasons of former Gators Kelvin Taylor and Matt Jones—combined. The pair of running backs collectively totaled 904 yards and eight 
touchdowns in their second seasons in 
Gainesville.
Mike Gillislee managed just 920 
rushing yards in three years before bursting onto the scene as a senior, when he eclipsed 1,000 yards under then-head coach Will Muschamp.
Did I mention that all three play for 
NFL teams now?
See, Jordan Scarlett would be a 
1,500-yard workhorse in an up-tempo offensive system.  As it is, the Gators don’t play especially fast and he’s had to share touches with a loaded backﬁ  eld.
Scarlett should be the feature back 
next season, though—and No. 25 will be instrumental as the best offensive weapon for a team on the rise.
McMullen: Jarrad Davis was 
Heckin’ Tougher than You or Me
To determine the “best” Florida 
Gators male athlete is honestly not a task for the faint of heart. Jalen Tabor, Quincy Wilson and Marcus Maye were all selected within 15 picks of each other in April’s NFL Draft.
For my pick, however, I have to 
go with the man in the middle of that Gators D: Jarrad Davis.
The 6-foot-2 linebacker was 
essentially another defensive coach on the ﬁ  eld in 2016. Though he missed three regular season games and the 
Outback Bowl with injuries, Davis 
nonetheless amassed 60 tackles in nine games, good for second most on the team.
In the - ahem - “defensive struggle” 
against Vanderbilt last season, Davis played like a man possessed, tallying a career-high 15 tackles and three passes defended, with the ﬁ  nal of those tipped into the hands of Nick Washington with less than a minute left to secure victory.
Davis was the “heart and soul” of the defense, according to cliché-minded Jim McElwain. Trite as the phrase may be, McElwain is not wrong.
Take, for example, the Georgia 
game. The Butkus Award ﬁ  nalist gritted through a tough matchup two weeks after an ankle injury forced him out of the Missouri contest. He ﬁ  nished the 
rivalry game with 2.5 tackles for loss 
and seven total tackles
Jarrad Davis was the best player 
on the best unit of any Florida team this year, and to deny him this right is sacrilege in a conference where defensive football used to be king. 
Who do you think was the best male 
athlete of the 2016-17 season? Vote 
online at alligator.org/sports.
Scarlett averaged 5.5 yards per carry in 2016
63-yard catch and run. I still 
remember how loud Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium got that day.
It is these experiences 
that have allowed me to truly 
explore what UF has to offer.
The second piece of advice is 
to remember that you are only 
in college for about four years.
Enjoy those Saturday 
mornings during football season when the entire campus becomes one big tailgate for every home game.
Enjoy the tradition of 
swaying side to side while singing “We Are the Boys from 
Old Florida” with complete 
strangers at nearly every sporting event. 
And most importantly, enjoy 
being able to say you are a Florida Gator and are attending one of the best schools for academics and athletics. You chose to come here for a reason, 
so do what you want to do and 
experience things you wouldn’t normally experience.
Now is the time to do just 
that.
Remember, the summer is a 
lot of fun and is a great way to get used to the campus before everyone comes back for the 
Fall, but the real fun comes that 
ﬁ  rst Saturday when the opening kickoff marks the return of UF athletics.
Jake Dreilinger is assistant 
sports editor of the Alligator. 
His column appears frequently on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 13
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Jordan Scarlett carries the ball during UF's Orange and Blue Debut on April 7, 2017, at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
AWARDS,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University AvenueBASEBALL
By Pete Iacobelli
The Associated Press
Tim Tebow is moving up and 
heading south - to some very 
familiar territory.
Tebow has been promoted to 
the New York Mets’ high Class 
A afﬁ  liate in St. Lucie, Florida. 
The 29-year-old Tebow led the University of Florida to two national championships and won the 2007 Heisman Trophy during his stellar football career with the Gators.
Baseball has not been as easy 
for the 29-year-old outﬁ  elder. He hit just .220 with three homers and 
23 RBIs with Class A Columbia - 
numbers that usually don’t lead to a promotion.
“For me, it’s not something 
I have to answer,” Tebow said. “There’s a lot smarter, wiser people than me that make those decisions. I just try and show up and play hard every day.”
General manager Sandy Alderson 
announced the move before the Mets’ 8-2 win at San Francisco on Sunday. He said Tebow’s performance had trended positively the past two or three weeks and the Mets thought it was a good time for his promotion.
“Clearly, it’s a step up,” Alderson 
said. “I certainly think he can handle it.”
Tebow was a smash hit with 
fans the past three months in the South Atlantic League. The Fireﬂ  ies were second in the league with 
an average attendance of 5,230 
heading into Sunday’s 2-1 loss to Kannapolis, and Tebow’s presence led to sellouts and big crowds at nearly every road stop.
Tebow got a loud ovation when 
he came to the plate for the ﬁ  rst time Sunday with the bases loaded in the ﬁ  rst inning. He then hit a hot shot right at the ﬁ  rst baseman to end the inning. He went 0 for 2 with a walk.
Next up is a more challenging 
level. Still, he’s happy to be headed back to the Sunshine State, where he still has family, friends and many, 
many supporters in Gator colors.
“I obviously love Florida so this 
is nice,” he said with a grin. “But 
the goal and focus is improving as a baseball player.”
Tebow’s ﬁ  rst pro baseball stop 
had a storybook start with a home run in his ﬁ  rst at-bat. He added another homer three games later, 
but he has been mostly inconsistent 
at the plate.
That’s baseball, Tebow said. He 
went 0 for 3 during Saturday’s win over Kannapolis, but drove in two runs.
“I know that my progress has led 
me to having three good at-bats, to bring in two guys,” he said. “As an 
athlete you can’t worry about those 
things. You have to focus on, ‘Am I seeing the pitches? What am I doing with them? Am I doing damage with them?’”
Tebow certainly looked 
comfortable in the Fireﬂ  ies’ clubhouse, despite being a decade older than several of his teammates.
“We’ve said he’s just one of 25 
guys,” Columbia president John Katz said. “At the end of the day, he really is. He wants to succeed. He puts in the work and hopefully, he’ll have continued success at a higher level.”
That’s Alderson’s wish, too, as 
Tebow continues a journey that 
he hopes ends at Citi Field in New 
York.
“I wouldn’t say he has excelled” 
at Columbia, Alderson said. “But at the same time, what he’s done there - given all the circumstances - 
justiﬁ  ed the promotion.”   Tebow promoted to New York Mets’ aﬃ   liate in Florida
The Associated Press
Tim T ebow smiles during a Columbia Fireﬂ  ies game in the 2017 minor league season. The former Florida football player was promoted to the St. Lucie Mets on Sunday.
