We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 21 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators unveil alternate uniform 
for Saturday 
Are they enough to make fans forget about sub-par performance? Read the column , pg. 14. 
UF ﬁ  les lawsuit over engineering building
The suit was over the Chemical Engineering building , pg. 5.
Woman’s daughter tapes doctor’s cursing  
GPD opened a criminal investigation, pg. 3. Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
HR SAYS IT IS REQUIRED 
BY THE STATE.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After UF canceled classes for 
four days due to Hurricane Irma, 
hourly paid workers will not be 
repaid for time lost.
These employees, referred to 
as OPS, or “Other Personnel Ser-
vices,” workers, are paid by the 
hour and are not guaranteed ben-eﬁ  ts like other full-time employ-
ees, said Jason Fults, the co-chair of the Alachua County Labor Co-
alition.
Jodi Gentry, the Vice President 
of Human Resources at UF, said 
OPS workers only get paid for time worked and are not eligible 
for paid leave, as stated in their 
work agreement.
“It’s a long-standing practice, 
not only at the University of Flor-
ida, but it’s consistent throughout 
the state university system,” she said. “It’s a condition of their em-ployment.”
OPS workers approached Fults 
about not receiving pay, and he has been communicating with Gentry since. Fults said he was confused as to why UF couldn’t pay the workers when they had 
budgeted for that pay already.
“UF is not a factory or a restau-
rant or something like that that 
had to close, like it didn’t have 
any revenue during that time.” he 
said. “They’ve already taken the tuition from the students.”
He said UF does not treat OPS 
like valuable employees and 
sometimes keeps them as tempo-
rary workers for years on end.
Santa Fe College, where Fults 
works as an employee, paid workers for the week off during 
Hurricane Irma, he said. Though 
Gentry said a state law mandates hourly workers are only paid for hours worked, Fults wants to 
know if more can be done.
“If that’s the only justiﬁ  cation, this is the way we’ve always done 
things, then that’s not accept-able,” he said.
Gentry said it’s against the 
state’s regulation to offer paid leave.
Fults said many OPS workers 
live paycheck to paycheck. 
“So when you’re just barely 
getting by and kind of paying your bills, and then you basically are required to take off three- OPS workers not reimbursed for time missed due to Irma
SEE OPS,  PAGE 4Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
Dania Alexandrino, left, moderates a conversation with Ana Navarro, a conservative 
journalist. Navarro spoke about her experiences as a Latina and as a Republican at the Hispanic Heritage Month Forum on Tuesday. Read the story on pg. 4. 
SHE IS IN STABLE CONDITION 
AFTER STRIKING A 
ROAD MEDIAN.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was seriously injured 
after she lost control of her scooter early 
Tuesday morning.
Sarah Rimbey, 21, was traveling west 
on Northwest Eighth Avenue near Hog-town Creek shortly after 1 a.m. Rimbey struck the median causing her to lose 
control of her scooter and crash in the 
eastbound lane of Northwest Eighth Av-enue near the 3100 block, GPD spokes-person Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Police said it did not look like Rim-
bey was wearing a helmet during the accident. She sustained serious facial injuries and several cuts to her head and body, Tobias said. Rimbey was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital where she is being monitored but is in stable condition. Police are continuing to investigate the crash, Tobias said. 
The cause of the crash is still un-
known.
Rimbey is a non-degree-seeking ex-
change student from Canada, UF spokes-person John Hines wrote in an email. 
She is studying economics, according 
to her LinkedIn proﬁ  le.
In an effort to prevent injuries from 
driving scooters, New Scooters 4 Less 
donated helmets to University Police in 
an unrelated event at their Southwest 13th Street location hours after the ac-cident. UF Public Safety tweeted about the donation and encouraged students 
to pick up free helmets from UPD head-
quarters. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUF student hospitalized 
after scooter accidentLOCAL AND UNIVERSITY 
POLICE ARE SPENDING 
$500,000 ON SECURITY 
FOR THE EVENT.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs 
emailed students and faculty 
Tuesday afternoon and warned 
them to stay away from white 
nationalist Richard Spencer’s on-campus appearance, which is next week. 
Fuchs emphasized in the email 
that UF’s values do not align 
Spencer’s. The speech is set for 
2:30 p.m. on Oct. 19 at the Phil-lips Center for Performing Arts.
“(Do) not provide Mr. Spencer 
and his followers the spotlight 
they are seeking. They are intend-
ing to attract crowds and provoke a reaction in order to draw the media,” Fuchs wrote in the email. “By shunning him and his follow-ers we will block his attempt for further visibility.” 
After months of back and forth 
between UF and the National Policy Institute, which Spencer leads as president, the university announced the date of the event last Thursday. Spencer will pay 
$10,564 to rent the space, while 
UF and other agencies, including University Police and Gainesville Police, will spend more than $500,000 on security, according to Alligator archives. 
Fuchs pointed to a campaign 
called #TogetherUF aimed to 
promote open dialogue in light 
of Spencer’s appearance. The ﬁ  rst event, “A Conversation on the First Amendment,” will be Wednesday from 5 p.m. to 6:30 
p.m. in the Rion Ballroom of the 
Reitz Union. Fuchs said he plans to attend. 
He encouraged students to voice their discontent with Spen-cer’s values and stand up for their own in the email.
“We will overcome this exter-
nal threat to our university and our values,” Fuchs wrote. “We will become an even stronger community and an even greater university.”  
For the people that attend the 
speech or protests, security will be heightened on campus and in 
Fuchs urges students to ‘stay away’ from Richard Spencer
SEE SPENCER,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 21
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
HIGH  89° LOW  67°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
 
Apply Now for 2018-19 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at 
fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-19 FAFSA 
is now available. UF’s “on-time” 
deadline to receive the results of your 2018-19 FAFSA from the fed-eral processor is Dec. 15. Apply 
well before Dec. 15 to ensure that 
the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results 
of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early 
as possible to be considered for 
the most and best aid. For more 
information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit-
fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA 
financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Stand-up comedy at Rockeys 
Dueling Piano Bar Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, lo-
cated at 112 S. Main St., hosts 
live stand-up comedy and drink 
specials every Wednesday night 
from 9 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. A lo-cal comedian will start the show, 
and open-mic will be available 
after the main show. The price is 
$5 per person. 
Eat, Drink and Be Scary 
Gainesville Food Tour is host-
ing a Halloween themed tour 
on Wednesday from 7 p.m. to 9 
p.m. in downtown Gainesville. 
The tour will be a 1.3 miles, two 
and a half hour walking tour with 
drinks, food and local ghost sto-
ries. All drinks will be alcoholic 
and every participant must be 21 
years or older. The price is $59.99 per person and space is limited. 
Visit gainesvillefoodtour.com for more information. 
The Larry Stephenson Band Live 
The Larry Stephenson Band, an award-winning bluegrass group, will perform at the Actors’ 
Warehouse, located at 619 NE First St., on Thursday from 6 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. The event is for all ages and costs $20 per person. 
Films Under the Stars 
The UF School of Art + Art 
History will screen the mov-
ie “Dangerous Liaisons” on 
Thursday at 8 p.m. The event will 
be held at the UF Fine Arts Plaza, 
located at 1370 Inner Road, and is part of the Fall 2017 Films Under 
the Stars series. The event is free and open to the public. People 
may bring blankets, chairs, pets and family members. If inclem-
ent weather arises, the film will be held in the Fine Arts Building 
D, Room 329. 
Pop-up Culture 
Pop-Up Culture is part of UF’s 
celebration of National Arts and 
Humanities Month. The event will be held on the Plaza of the 
Americas on Friday  from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m. An array of activi-
ties will be held to celebrate the arts and humanities at UF. From 
musical performances to poetry 
readings and from dancing to 
opportunities to paint, there’s 
something for everyone. To learn 
more, visit arts.ufl.edu/ahmonth. Various moments of culture all 
aimed to increase awareness, ap-
preciation and excitement for the 
arts and humanities at UF. The 
event will be free and open to the public. 
Freaky Friday at the Wooly
A dinner and show will be held at the Wooly, located at 20 N. 
Main St., on Friday from 6 p.m. 
to 10:30 p.m. The show features 
the performance group Guts and 
Glory Gainesville. The dinner and show costs $45 per person. The 
ticket includes a complimentary 
drink, and all attendees must be 
at least 21 years old. The show 
starts at 7:30 p.m. Visit woolydin-
nerparty.bpt.me for more infor-
mation.
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Pride events UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program is hosting a fundraiser, 
called “A Pride Extravaganza,” 
at First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, located at 1220 SE 
Veitch St., on Sunday from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. in celebration of 
Gainesville Pride. The fundraiser will include a resource fair, photo 
exhibition and live performances. The history program is also host-
ing a panel called “Queer in the 
Capital: DC Pride 2017 Fieldwork 
Trip Roundtable,” for students to 
hold a multimedia presentation 
on their trip to Washington, D.C., 
for the Equality March for Unity and Pride. The panel will be on 
Oct. 25 from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. on the second floor atrium of Ustler 
Hall on UF’s campus.  
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21
The David and Wanda Brown 
Center for Leadership and Service 
is holding a Fall 2017 Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join several 
hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service for a wide variety of non-profits, including 
Keep Alachua Beautiful, ACORN Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, 
NATL (Natural Area Teaching Lab), Wilmont Gardens, The 
Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more infor-mation, call 352-392-1215, email 
cls@leadershipandservice.ufl.edu, or visit bit.ly/daysofservice. 
UF Fulbright Information Session
UF Fulbright Programs is host-
ing “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” 
on Oct. 26 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the UF International 
Center in the Hub. Presentations 
will be quick and concise. The 
event will be an opportunity to 
network with U.S. and interna-
tional Fulbright participants. Light refreshments will be served. To 
register, please visit eventbrite.
com and search by event title. The 
presentations are: My Graduate 
Studies—Determination,  Recklessness and Luck: The 
Feasibility of Improbable Paths 
by Sergio Marconi; Nerve Tissue 
Engineering by Syed-Jamal 
Mustafa; and How do photojour-
nalists make such great pictures? 
by Mindy McAdams. For more 
information email mcardec@ufic.
ufl.edu. 
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plications
Do you make cool stuff? 
Gainesville’s largest indie craft 
show is looking for artists and 
crafters who make unique, gift-
able goods for the upcoming Dec. 
3 holiday shopping event at First 
Magnitude Brewery. Apply online 
by Nov. 1 at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Zombie Hunt
Oct. 27 - 30  •  7 pm- 11 pm
For tickets and more info: charitynerds.org/zombiesAll proceeds benefit
THEY GAVE ABOUT 
$75,000 IN MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES.
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two companies from the 
UF Sid Martin Biotechnology 
Institute donated thousands of dollars of supplies to hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico this month.
MLM Biologics Inc., which 
specializes in medical devices for skin conditions, was one of the two companies to donate for Hurricane Maria relief. The company donated skin replace-ment devices, which is a prod-uct stitched over an open wound to close it. New skin then grows 
over the patch and closes the 
wound, said Chandra Nataraj, founder and CEO of MLM.
Nataraj got in touch with 
MMM Healthcare LLC, a large health care provider in Puerto Rico, to ask what help they could provide. 
“It’s just an absolute hu-
manitarian need,” Nataraj said. “Somebody had to come in and actually make the decision that we are going to go help these people.”
Nataraj said the dollar 
amount of the supplies, which was about $75,000, was not something he wanted to focus 
on. Instead, he wanted to place 
more emphasis on how many patients the products could help.
“Our product was designed 
speciﬁ  cally to address wound care treatment options when the treatment facilities don’t oper-ate under ideal conditions,” he said. “We knew that, from that perspective, it would be a timely help as well.”
The products were shipped 
from Miami to Puerto Rico on a plane chartered by MMM Healthcare on Oct. 1. Products from Trinity Pharmaco-Solu-tions LLC, a wound care compa-ny based out of Davie, and Re-liOx Corp., a chemistry startup based out of the Sid Martin Bio-technology Institute in Alachua, 
also shipped items.       
Cristina Knapp, a founder 
and vice president of marketing 
at ReliOx, said due to the sanita-tion issue and lack of clean wa-ter Puerto Rico is facing, many people are “exhibiting tremen-dous wound care distress.” 
Doctors in Puerto Rico are 
traveling to rural areas where people do not have access to health care and using MLM’s skin replacement product on wounded patients, she said. Her company has shipped antimi-crobial spray to help clean the wounds.
“Our products assure that 
there is a wound wash left be-hind to go with the dressing when they change the dressing covering,” Knapp said. “Our material, which is an antimicro-bial spray, can be sprayed onto the wound and be assured that the wound is cleaned.”
Although it is a small compa-
ny, Knapp said ReliOx wanted to help in any way they could. 
“It’s an overwhelmingly im-
pactful thing to see,” she said. “American citizens, 3.5 million people, in a desperate, apoca-lyptic situation, and it’s the least we could do.”UF startups send 
help to Puerto RicoGPD OPENED A CRIMINAL 
INVESTIGATION INTO 
THE INCIDENT.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
A video of a Gainesville doctor 
yelling at a patient at Gainesville 
After Hours Clinic on Monday has gone viral, with over 186,000 views and 80 comments as of press time.  
Jessica Stipe, 38, posted the inter-
action she had with Dr. Peter Gol-logly from a recording her daugh-ter took in the waiting room. Stipe made a 6:30 p.m. appointment at the clinic after experiencing a day of se-vere pain and vomiting, which she believed were symptoms of pneu-monia, she said.
At 7:45 p.m., after not being seen 
other than to take a urine sample, Stipe returned to the waiting room to collect her $80 copay and go home, she said. 
Stipe was told the refund would 
have to be granted by the doctor. In the video, Gollogly came to the wait-ing room and was visibly angered by Stipe’s displeasure with her wait time. Raising his voice, Gollogly told Stipe she would have to wait longer in other places like CareSpot or the emergency room. 
“Get your money and get the hell 
out,” Gollogly said in the video. “Get 
the f--- out of my ofﬁ  ce, now.”
After Gollogly learned he was 
being recorded, he took the phone 
from Stipe’s daughter. 
“(My daughter) reached out for 
her phone, and he shoved her,” Stipe said. 
Gollogly ended the recording and 
threw the phone down the hallway 
as Stipe called police, she said. 
Gainesville Police came to the 
clinic, and Stipe showed them the 
video. GPD opened a criminal in-vestigation into the incident Monday night, and it is active and ongoing, wrote GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email.
Gainesville After Hours Clinic 
could not be reached for comment.
Stipe took to Facebook and shared the video of the incident on her personal page. Since then, fam-ily, friends and strangers have react-ed in  shock, disbelief and defense.
Jennifer Hines, a friend of Jessica 
Stipe, watched the video over and over, she said. 
“It’s never okay to treat a client, 
or a patient, (or) anybody like that,” 
Hines said. “It’s just completely un-
ethical.”
Hines, who works as a housing 
management information system lead for Meridian Behavioral Health-care, felt the doctor’s behavior was in direct violation of the oath he takes as a medical professional to care for his patients. 
“I know that everybody has bad 
days,” she said, “but in the ﬁ  eld that he’s in and in the capacity that he works, there’s never a day or any-thing you could be going through that could allow or make that ac-ceptable behavior, ever.”
@jessica_giles_ 
jgiles@alligator.org
Gainesville doctor cusses out patient
Puerto Rico
IT WILL OFFER SMOOTHIES, 
WRAPS AND VEGAN 
OPTIONS ON CAMPUS.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A new smoothie restaurant on 
UF’s campus will replace Freshens in Spring.
Shake Smart, a health food restau-
rant where all menu items are below 
$6, will open early Spring at South-
west Recreation Center and the Reitz Union, said Student Body President Smith Meyers at Tuesday’s UF Senate meeting. Meyers said the change will bring another healthy food option to campus.
He also mentioned other upcoming 
SG plans, including free green testing books, which normally cost 50 cents at libraries and in campus vending machines. Students can get up to two exam books with their Gator 1 Card, 
available in upcoming weeks, Mey-
ers said. SG spent $5,000 to order the books.
“None of us carry cash on hand, 
much less change, so we’re excited to bring that service here to UF,” he said. 
There will also be six open rooms 
in Library West for online testing that will open soon, Meyers said. 
Students in the AIM program, 
which helps at-risk students, will re-
ceive free StudyEdge vouchers, Mey-
ers said. SG spent $5,000 on the project and got the vouchers at a 75 percent discount from Study Edge. He hopes this will help with retention rates of underrepresented communities. 
“Because most of the time they’re 
at-risk students, they may need just a little more help, especially in those big classes,” Meyers said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgNew restaurant to replace Freshens4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
ﬁ  fths of your work week unpaid that 
you didn’t budget for, then that starts to put people in a difﬁ  cult position,” 
Fults said.
When OPS workers approached 
human resources, they were referred 
to the Aid-a-Gator program.
President Kent Fuchs wanted to 
develop a program to help affected employees, including OPS employees, Gentry said. People can request assis-tance for up to $1,500 per person.Ryan Morini, the associate pro-
gram director at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, said he’s got-ten used to UF not paying OPS work-
ers for time off.
He said not paying for time off dur-
ing the hurricane adds hardship.
“It basically boils down to things 
that seem like proﬁ  t margins even 
though that’s not what it should be, but that’s what seems to motivate a lot of decisions that get made.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgOPS,  from pg. 1Workers can request aid 
the city. The City of Gainesville is not releasing exact details on its preparations to accom-
modate the massive inﬂ  ow of 
people expected to show up. City spokesperson Chip Skin-ner said ofﬁ  cials are letting UF 
take the lead on logistics.
Skinner said the city has 
contingency plans in place 
should protests spread off-cam-pus. Residents should be extra vigilant on the day of Spencer’s appearance, he said. 
“We’re asking that people 
go along with the national campaign: If somebody sees something, say something,” Skinner said. “Contact law en-forcement if someone is behav-
ing strangely or you see some-
thing that looks suspicious.”
Mayor Lauren Poe said he 
worries about the possibility of 
protesters and counter-protest-
ers taking to major roadways like West University Avenue the day Spencer speaks. 
“What we have found at 
other venues, whether it’s Charlottesville or Berkeley, is these things tend to go mo-bile,” Poe said. “We have no prediction of where they’ll go, 
but we worry about things go-
ing onto the streets.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
SPENCER,  from pg. 1UF will take lead on security plansNAVARRO WAS PAID 
$20,000 TO SPEAK.
By Christina Morales 
Alligator Staff Writer
Maria Pardo-Vera didn’t know 
what to expect as she lined up to 
hear political commentator Ana 
Navarro. 
The 21-year-old said she decid-
ed to go at the last-minute with her roommates, hoping to be inspired. 
The event, which took place in 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., was 
held as part of Hispanic Heritage 
Month. Navarro was paid $20,000 for speaking, said Kendra Blandon, the director of the forum. About 
400 students attended. 
Pardo-Vera, a UF psychology 
senior, said he related to Navarro’s 
conversation about the diverse 
Hispanic community and believing 
in your principles.
“I thought it was really interest-
ing how she said to stand up for 
what you believe in,” she said. “I 
feel like I can believe what I be-
lieve and have my truths and do what makes me happy.” 
The event was funded by Stu-
dent Government and was also 
sponsored by the Bob Graham Center, UF’s College of Journalism 
and Communications, the Center 
for Latin American Studies and 
the Women’s Student Association, 
Blandon said. 
Blandon said she has been plan-
ning the forum since the beginning 
of Spring. By Summer, Navarro 
was their choice. 
“We chose her because we real-
ly wanted to showcase intellectual-
ism and professionalism in the His-panic community,” Blandon said. 
Alberto Barcenas, the assistant 
director of the forum, said the 
event informed students about issues within the Hispanic com-
munity, like under representation 
in media and disparities between 
economic classes in the U.S. 
“The goal of the event is to ba-
sically have a conversation,” Bar-
cenas said. “We’re trying to have 
an open dialogue hopefully be-
tween students and Ana Navarro 
herself.”
Navarro spoke on various top-
ics, including her life, DACA, Puerto Rico, the Second Amend-ment, economics, immigration and 
Richard Spencer. 
Navarro didn’t want to speak 
about Richard Spencer, who will 
speak at UF on Oct. 19. She said 
that giving him attention was the 
best way to spread his message. 
“Do I have to give him the time 
of day?” she said. “I hate the fact 
that we’re spending 10 seconds of 
the students’ time talking about 
this guy.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgHundreds of students attend forum with Ana NavarroWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jawanza Tucker knew he was gay 
when he was 5 years old. 
Tucker, a 21-year-old UF telecom-
munication senior, said he began com-
ing out to friends and family his sopho-
more year of high school. 
On National Coming Out Day, held 
Wednesday, other LGBTQ+ students 
like Tucker will be recognized. The Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, the Reitz Programming Board and Stu-dents Taking Action Against Racism will host events Wednesday celebrat-ing LGBTQ+ pride.
“This event is a beautiful thing,” 
Tucker said. “I think it’s a step in the right direction in a community that isn’t as inclusive as some cities.” 
The event is a step toward a more 
accepting campus, said Nicole Bianco, a Reitz Programming Board director of special events.
From 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. students 
can make buttons and decorate mes-sages in a bottle at the Reitz Union Amphitheatre, along with a chance to share their coming-out stories.
“The message in a bottle is sort of 
inspired by the idea of keeping a mes-
sage sealed but eventually being able 
to share that with someone,” Bianco said.
There will be a discussion about 
stigma and intersectionality in the LG-BTQ+ community and a showing of the ﬁ  lm, “Moonlight” at 7 p.m., she said.
“I am most excited to hear students 
tell their stories,” Bianco said. “I feel as though that may be the most impactful and empowering to others.”UF to honor National Coming Out Day
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Sushi and sake bombs are 
returning to Midtown. 
After closing May 1, Tatu 
Sushi Bar and Lounge, lo-
cated at 1702 W. University Ave., reopened with reno-vations and new ownership 
Friday. The soft reopening 
will be followed by a grand reopening next week, said co-owner Austin Clark. The res-taurant will serve most of the 
same food in a modern space, 
Clark said. 
“(We’re) trying to keep the 
same good food, same atmo-
sphere — just being able to 
provide that to a larger num-ber of people and make it brighter, cleaner and — like I said — adding some ame-
nities and some aspects that 
were lacking a little bit,” he said.
Austin Clark, Joey Fried-
man and Michael Farzad bought Tatu on April 3 and began installing a full service bar, larger bathrooms and more televisions, along with 
doubling the restaurant’s ca-
pacity. They’ve also hired about 50 percent more em-ployees to improve customer service and staff the liquor 
bar, Clark said. 
The same sushi chefs and 
cooks stayed through the 
transition, so the menu has 
remained mostly the same, 
Clark said. Tatu will still of-fer buy one, get one free sake Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays as well as a $10 
lunch special weekdays.
Lauren Adler, a UF ac-
counting sophomore, is 
thrilled to have her favorite 
sushi restaurant back. 
“I’m just really excited 
because having a good sushi 
place right across the street from campus is amazing,” 
she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgTatu Sushi Bar and 
Lounge reopens
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is suing the companies and 
people who worked on the Chemical 
Engineering building addition for dam-ages greater than $15,000.
In a complaint from the UF Board 
of Trustees ﬁ  led Sept. 27, UF said there are various damages and safety issues with the completed building. There are cracks in the foundation and walls, which are becoming worse with time because of soil conditions that were not address properly.
To prevent injury, UF built a wall 
blocking off access to some of the study rooms and other damaged areas. They also closed window blinds and the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor women’s restroom.
University spokesperson Janine 
Sikes said ﬁ  ling the lawsuit was a way for UF to preserve its rights, and she is conﬁ  dent the issue will be resolved. UF has worked with these contractors before, she said. 
“We are very optimistic we will be 
able to resolve this amicably out of court,” Sikes said.
The defendants are David Cappa; 
Causseaux, Hewett, & Walpole, Inc.; Charles Perry Partners, Inc.; Geo-Technologies, Inc.; Robert William Givens; Ponikvar & Associates, Inc.; Apryl Ponikvar; PPI Construction Management, Inc.; Structural Engi-neers Group, Inc.; and Robert J. Wag-
pole.
Brian Leslie, the president of 
Charles Perry Partners, Inc., said they 
have been working with UF for 50 years. He found out about the lawsuit through TV20 News.
“We’ve always had a reputation 
of resolving issues and working in an amicable way and we will do the same 
thing here,” Leslie said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF ﬁ  les suit over building additionThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORWe’re all scared 
about the future
If you’re anything like us, your heart probably skipped a beat 
when you received an email last week informing you that 
it’s already time to start thinking about registering for Spring 
classes. And when we say that your heart skipped a beat, 
we don’t mean it did so in the cute and jovial “school girl in 
love” sort of way. We mean you probably felt like your heart was 
going to leap out of your chest from beating so hard because you 
have yet another thing to stress about.
We are hardly into Fall semester and already thinking about 
what is to come in Spring. If you got accepted into UF, chances 
are you’re a pretty high achieving, hyper-involved busy body. It’s 
okay. We all are. Chances are if you already have these personal-
ity traits, you’re also probably stressed beyond belief at the idea 
of failing and not achieving the goals you’ve set for your future 
self. They typically go hand in hand. For most of us, that makes 
the future a pretty terrifying thing to think about.
It wouldn’t seem like something as simple as registering for 
classes would kick-start this much anxiety, but for a lot of stu-
dents it does. When thinking ahead to next semester, it’s easy for your mind to keep on going. First, it’s Spring semester. Next 
it’s studying for and taking entrance exams for graduate school. Then, it’s getting accepted into graduate school, then passing your 
classes there, then succeeding in your career field, then finding someone to spend your life with. Before you know it, your mind 
has gone thirty-plus years into the future and you’re engulfed by 
the pressure to succeed — just another weight on your shoulders.
It can feel like every choice you make, no matter how minor 
it may be, has the power to alter the course of your life entirely. Every club you join, every executive board you sit on and every 
class you take can seem like a pivotal decision. 
We want you to know, dear reader, that your anxieties are 
normal. It’s okay to be anxious and worried about the future. 
When you look around at all of your peers, it seems like they 
have it all together. They have a plan for themselves that has nev-
er wavered a centimeter throughout their life. They get perfect 
grades without really trying and never question or doubt their 
ability to succeed. 
We want you to know, dear reader, that your assumptions 
about your peers could not be further from the truth.
We are all stressed. We all question whether the choices we 
make are the right ones. We all question if we are doing enough to get where we want to be in ten years. We all get that panicked 
“heart-skipped-a-beat” feeling when we are reminded that the 
future is a real thing, and it’s getting a little bit closer every day. We are all scared.
Thinking about your future and the stressors that accompany 
it can make you feel alone. It can make you feel isolated, scared and generally sad. For a lot of students, the pressures they put on themselves can be even more hazardous. 
According to a National College Health Assessment survey 
conducted in 2015 by the American College Health Association (ACHA), one in six (15.8 percent) college students had been di-
agnosed or treated for anxiety and 21.9 percent of students re-
ported that within the last 12 months, anxiety had impacted their 
academic performance. The same survey found that 23 percent 
struggle with depression.
If you feel unusually anxious, stressed or upset, please don’t 
be afraid to seek help for something so normal. Being stressed is 
OK, but if it gets to be too much take it seriously. Anxiety can feel 
consuming, but it is something we can learn to live with. Don’t 
let it take over your life. 
Mediocrity is now part of Gator football culture
The Florida Gators have accepted medioc-
rity. Saturday’s 17-to-16 loss against LSU 
was a wake-up call to some fans, but in 
reality this has been a long time coming. 
An honest fan like myself will tell you 
that the Gators have been uncompetitive, boring and frankly, almost impossible to watch since Tim Tebow left. The offense has been pathetic 
and the defense has ebbed and flowed. I remem-
ber growing up knowing the culture that sur-rounded Gator football demanded success. Anything short 
of a national championship game berth was considered fail-
ure. Now? Not so much. A disgraceful loss to LSU’s worst team in a decade will still warrant chants of, “It’s great to 
be a Florida Gator,” from students as they exit the stadium. 
It seems that our football team and our Student Body will settle for average seasons and meaningless bowl games. 
This culture of losing starts from the top down, and 
Gator fans should demand better. I’m looking at you Coach McElwain. In your third year, what have you done to im-
prove the offense? Our team looks no different from when 
you took over. For all the criticisms surrounding Will Muschamp’s offense, at least he did his part as a defense-
minded coach. McElwain, supposedly an offensive guru, 
can’t say the same about delivering on his specialty. Flor-ida ranks 114th in the nation in total offense and 101st in 
points. That’s inexcusable in the third season of an “offen-
sive-minded” coach. 
There are those who will point to McElwain’s record as 
Florida coach, specifically in his first two years when he led the Gators to two SEC championship games. On pa-per, McElwain has a decent 19-8 record in those two years. 
However, it’s not just winning that matters. It’s winning 
convincingly. As Marty Cohen of 247Sports puts it, the Gators fail the eyeball test. McElwain may have his wins, 
but in how many of those have fans left The Swamp think-
ing the team played well? It doesn’t look like good, excit-ing football. Moreover, it seems that most of McElwain’s 
wins have come against teams that he was supposed to beat anyway  — teams to which it would’ve been em-
barrassing to loose to. In fact, I can only think of the win against Ole Miss in 2015 as an exception. 
“But what about the two SEC championship 
berths?!” some fans will ask. Well, were they re-ally great accomplishments? Did the Gators win 
the SEC East because we were a good team? Or was it because the SEC East was historically bad? 
Maybe the Gators were better than the rest, but 
again, as weak as the SEC East has been over 
the past few years, that’s not saying much. Either way, the 
Gators never had a real chance of beating Alabama in either 
of those games. 
Personally, I’m tired of hearing excuses from the coach-
es about how losses like the one against LSU are just “life in the SEC,” or the line, “it’s still a long season.” Really? Does anyone actually think we have a chance of beating 
Georgia this year? Even if we did, have we closed the gap 
with Alabama? Not a chance. In fact the gap may have even widened. 
Gator fans should demand more from our football pro-
gram. Fans (like the ones I sat next to on Saturday) who defend McElwain and blame “the real culprit,” offensive 
coordinator Doug Nussmeier, or the numerous suspensions 
are also part of the problem. Where is the accountability? But perhaps therein lies the problem: There is no account-
ability, and Gator fans have embraced a losing culture. 
In order to see a change, fans must demand it. With 
the season practically over, barring miraculous wins against Texas A&M and Georgia, McElwain should try something 
different and spice up the offense. Throw the ball down-field, play with a sense of urgency or literally do anything 
different than what the Gators are doing now. The only 
thing McElwain has to lose is his job, and it’s not like he’s making a great case to keep it anyway. If he can’t show 
some serious improvement then perhaps it’s time for him 
to go. Gator Football fans deserve better. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.Column
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
I’m sure you’ve heard the old saying, “If 
you have nothing nice to say, don’t say 
anything at all.” But I think this mantra needs to be updated to reﬂ  ect the feel-ings of our generation. Maybe some-
thing like, “If you have anything nice to say, please don’t say it because I won’t know how to react.” 
I ﬁ  nd feelings of discomfort a rarity, ex-
cept for the times I get complimented — not that I get complimented a lot or anything. When I do, though, I try to get that compli-ment as far away from me as possible. 
“Your hair looks good today,” says an 
unsuspecting, well-meant person. “Oh I just brushed it for the ﬁ  rst time in, like, a while,” I respond. 
“I like your outﬁ  t.” "I don’t think I can 
rock it."
“I like your apartment.” "My roommate 
decorated it."
“I like your column.” "Wait, you read it?" I’ve noticed that I’m not the only one who swats away sincere compli-ments as if they were fruit ﬂ  ies or fraternity guys. In fact, I know a lot of accomplished, smart and (seemingly) conﬁ  dent women who do the same thing. 
We’ll do anything to avoid tak-
ing credit. We’ll give the compli-menter a better, stronger compli-ment to take the attention away from us. We’ll explain how what-ever we’re being praised for has nothing to do with us. We’ll beat around it. We’ll com-
pletely negate it. 
We say “I hate myself” in casual conver-
sations and make self-deprecating jokes at 
dinner tables, but we can’t even muster up a “thanks” when we’re commended. We’ve 
got a problem here.
So why are we like this? A few reasons. 
First, we think that by accepting a compli-
ment, we’ll come off as conceited. Unless you’re thanking Regina George for saying 
you’re really pretty, you probably won’t be accosted for agreeing that you 
think you’re really pretty. Chanc-es are, if someone is commending you, they’re not simultaneously testing you. It’s time to stop wor-rying that people will think we might actually be proud of our-selves. Take the compliment. 
We’re also scared to make 
people — and ourselves — feel awkward. Success is weird, and 
we’re all a little bit afraid of it. We wouldn’t dare brag to anyone. We only “humble 
brag.” But by acknowledging the fact that 
we might have done something worthy of 
praise, we’re not insinuating everyone else hasn’t. In fact, negating good-natured com-ments makes it seem like you’re ﬁ  shing for 
another one. And so the cycle of awkward-
ness you intended to stop continues. 
The last and most lethal reason we refuse 
to accept compliments is simple: We don’t 
think we deserve them. There’s no easy ex-
planation for this one, as much as I wish there was. 
Whatever the reason, though, refusal 
to accept praise for our accomplishments 
needs to become a thing of the past. What we say inﬂ  uences how we feel, which inﬂ  u-ences the kind of people we become. We’re all here in college trying to become the best and brightest in our ﬁ  elds, meanwhile we’re refusing to believe we could be anything worthy of a “you go girl.” But this double life we’re living is going to catch up with us. While we’re trying to avoid looking self-assured, the little comments we make about 
how not-that-great we are will start to add 
up, and slowly, they’ll change the way we 
see ourselves. 
So I’m putting all of us up to a challenge. 
The next time someone compliments you, 
whatever the reason, just say thank you. 
Then say nothing. Accept the compliment, 
and you might even start to believe it’s true. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays. 
In a few months Facebook groups will be jam-packed with seniors saying they need to rehome their pets. It’s about time we have a discussion about how this is one of the worst things you can 
do to an animal.
My ﬁ  rst column this semester talked 
about how I personally felt like my qual-ity of life improved since I adopted a dog. I even went as far as to say that I could see how a lot of people in college could beneﬁ  t from adopting a dog. Looking back, I’d like to revise my stance and say you should only do so if you’re 100 percent sure that dog, cat or chinchilla will become a permanent part of your family. 
While it’s easy to see why people would 
feel the need to rehome or give up an ani-mal if they had to move out of state, it’s re-ally not fair to the pet at all. For one, you’re leaving your pet who has grown used to you in the hands of a stranger. This could lead to your pet becoming defensive or de-pressed. It’s not hard to see how defensive dogs get left at a pound. I would know because my dog, who is cute as a button, wasn’t adopted for almost a month be-cause she would often nip anyone that came to see her. This was mostly due to her being abused and abandoned. While my dog, Bella, has slowly become better with people, I’d like to think that if she’d been with me all along she wouldn’t bite people because they put their hand a certain way or try to pick her up. Dogs and cats that are left on the curb often feel the need to put their guard up more the second time around.
Let me repeat this another time for the 
people in the back. Yes, that puppy might be cute now, and yes, you might think you’re committed to him or her, but if you’re hesi-tant, don’t commit unless you’re sure that animal is coming with you. If you’re unsure or think you might end up rehom-ing that animal, save yourself and your possible pet the heartache. Breakups are hard, but giving up an animal has to be worse. While you might be able to ﬁ  nd peace in the decision, your pet won’t understand what’s going on, and this leads to animals becoming unnecessarily emotionally hurt and aggressive. 
In most cases people choose to give 
up their pets because they’re moving and bringing a dog or cat halfway across the country is a “hassle.” But some of you might actually have to give your pet up be-cause of living situations. In that case, the best thing you could do for your loved one is to rehome him or her to someone who the pet knows and trusts. While you might miss them, at least they’ll see a familiar face and won’t feel completely alone.
If you don’t see the problem with this or think you’re saving your pet from going through the extra stress from moving, I’d like you to put yourself in their shoes. One day you’re with the person you’ve been with for a year or maybe longer, and sud-denly you live in a new place and there are new people trying to rufﬂ  e through your hair and get you to eat food that’s unfamil-iar to you. 
I’m not here to judge you if you have to 
give up your pet. I get it — life happens. But I would like you to take more care than some of the people I see in Facebook groups when you rehome your pet. If you absolute-ly must give away your pet to a stranger, try to give him or her to a no-kill shelter. At least then they stand a chance. More im-portantly, if you think it might come to that, wait until you’re more stable before you commit to a living being. 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.
You're not conceited; don’t be afraid to accept compliments and believe them
Don’t commit to an animal you can’t keep just to rehome it upon graduationColumn
ColumnCarly Breit
opinions@alligator.org
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Bees and Brews:
First Mag to raise money for new UF Honey Bee Lab 
(pg. 10)Scandal Review: 
The ﬁ  nal season premiere jumps right in (pg. 9)Courtesy to The Alligator.
Black Sabbath celebrated their ﬁ  nal tour earlier this year.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
There is no more appropriate day to cele-
brate a band whose occult themes and horror-
inspired lyrics have rocked the heavy metal 
world since the 1960s than Friday the 13th.
The Atlantic and Hippodrome Theatre’s 
Black Sabbath tribute night and costume party 
will begin this Friday, Oct. 13 at 7 p.m. with 
a classic 1970s horror ﬁ  lm at the Hippodrome 
and continue at The Atlantic with the kind of head-banging that originated with Ozzy Os-bourne and Geezer Butler themselves. The trib-ute band, which was put together by various 
artists around town solely for the event, has 
no name.
DJ Mike G will play ‘70s psych rock, metal 
and punk before and after the show, beginning 
at 9 p.m. at The Atlantic.
Though Black Sabbath’s lineup changed 
several times over the years, its core mem-
bers always remained the same: Geezer Butler, Tony Iommi, Bill Ward and the notorious Ozzy 
Osbourne, who in 1979 was released from the 
band due to drug and alcohol abuse. He re-turned in 1997.
From their ﬁ  rst single, “Evil Woman,” in 
1969 to their ﬁ  nal tour and disbandment on March 17 of this year, Black Sabbath’s legacy is marked by 70 million records sold and wide acknowledgment as one of the greatest metal band of all time.
This Friday is the second time Friday landed 
on the 13th in 2017, and the only one in Octo-ber until 2023. To celebrate, owners of The At-lantic approached Jason Potak, cinema director 
at the Hippodrome, about supplementing their 
Black Sabbath tribute show with a horror ﬁ  lm that complemented the feel of the band and its music era.
“Suspiria,” directed by auteur Dario Argen-
to, is a horror fantasy that focuses on a dancer who attends a prestigious ballet academy in Germany where a string of murders and super-natural events occur. Ranked No. 41 on popu-
lar movie review website Rotten Tomatoes’ list of 100 best horror ﬁ  lms, the ﬁ  lm is soon getting 
a remake starring Dakota Johnson.
“‘Suspiria’ seems like the ultimate ‘70s hor-
ror ﬁ  lm,” Potak said. “It’s very, very well made but self-aware — kind of like Black Sabbath. Funny, too.”
Potak did projection work at the Hippo-
drome before becoming cinema director, and has had the opportunity to work with The At-lantic for other shows, like showing the ﬁ  lm “Stop Making Sense” before a Talking Heads 
tribute show and “Velvet Goldmine” for their 
David Bowie tribute.
“Working with other businesses is really 
cool and gives everyone an opportunity to do something different,” Potak said. “There are so 
many great ﬁ  lms out there and I love that I 
have the opportunity to show something that I think people should see.”
The night is meant to feel like a blast to the 
past, and dressing up in costume is encour-aged.
“There will be a lot of cool psych rock and 
metal before the band gets started somewhere around 10:30,” Potak said. “It’s going to be 
really neat because the two parts of the night 
complement each other really well.”
Charles Tonnelier, a 24-year-old biomedical 
engineering graduate student, is a longtime fan 
of Black Sabbath, crediting his music taste to 
his father.
“Events like these are why I have loved liv-
ing in Gainesville my whole life. There’s so much appreciation for music of all kinds, so 
you get exposed to so much in your own back-
yard,” Tonnelier said. “I love tribute bands. Really good ones make you feel like you’re get-ting to experience a taste of what a fan might 
have in that era.”
Like at any concert, fans hope their favor-
ite songs get played. For Tonnelier, “Paranoid” 
and “Changes” are at the top of his list.
Tickets to see Suspiria at 7 p.m. are $7 for 
students and seniors and $9 for the general population. The tribute band and dance night at The Atlantic will begin at 9 p.m. Entrance for attendees over 21 is $5 and $10 for under 21. The Atlantic and Hippodrome to pay homage to Black Sabbath
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer 
The School of Art + Art History is pre-
paring for its transformation into an out-
door cinema.
For the next three Thursday nights, the 
UF School of Art + Art History will hold its third annual “Films Under the Stars” series in the Fine Arts Plaza. Each screening is free and open to the public to enjoy begin-ning at 8 p.m. The ﬁ  lms will be cast onto a 16-foot inﬂ  atable screen that associate pro-fessor Craig Smith will bring out himself.
“We let people bring lawn chairs and blankets and dogs and pizza and whatever, and we hang out there for the evening,” 
Smith said. “As we get later into autumn, 
the weather just gets better and better.”
This Thursday will feature the 1988 dra-
ma “Dangerous Liaisons,” with an all-star 
cast including Glenn Close and John Mal-
kovich. The Oct. 19 showing will be Cop-
pola’s 2006 “Marie Antoinette.” The ﬁ  nal 
ﬁ  lm, screening on Oct. 26, is director Tet-suya Nakashima’s eccentric Japanese ﬁ  lm “Kamikaze Girls.”
This year’s ﬁ  lms have been chosen in 
conjunction with the Harn Museum of Art exhibit “Becoming a Woman in the Age of Enlightenment,” which was curated by UF  professor and director of graduate studies, 
Melissa Hyde. Smith and Hyde worked to-
gether in the spring to choose three feature 
ﬁ  lms to create a dynamic and thought-pro-voking pairing with the exhibit.
“We put those together as something 
that extends public engagement and also 
student research engagement outside the 
walls of the Harn,” Smith said. “Since the exhibition has a particular direction and objective related to gender and socializa-
tion and cultural development, it makes 
sense that the ﬁ  lms would also share in 
that.”Smith described “Films Under the Stars” 
as a window into the College of the Arts 
for students of other majors and into the 
university itself for members of the com-
munity outside of UF. Whether you come for one screening or all three and visit the exhibit, Smith said everyone is sure to get 
something out of it, whether gaining in-
sight or simply being entertained.
“We’re one of the largest universities in 
the country,” Smith said. “We serve a lot 
of different purposes both athletically and 
academically and artistically, and so I hope 
that ‘Films Under the Stars’ is there to en-
gage persons with what we do in the arts.”‘Films Under the Stars’ series returns for three week run 
Photo via IMDb
Scandal, one of ABC’s most popular shows ever aired, premiered the ﬁ  rst episode of 
its ﬁ  nal season Thursday.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Brooke Steinberg
Avenue Contributor
WARNING: SPOILERS AHEAD.
The ﬁ  nal season of “Scandal” pre-
miered Thursday on ABC, and the ﬁ  rst 
episode, titled “Watch Me,” featured 
Olivia Pope’s rise to power, breakups 
and going behind friends’ backs to get exactly what she wants.
The season premiere starts with Ol-
ivia Pope strutting through the White House to the song “Fight the Power” by 
Public Enemy. Do you expect anything 
less? She’s using her power to make her way to the top, and no one is going to stop her.
Olivia Pope meets with a senator at 
the beginning of the episode to discuss his vote on a bill President Grant is try-ing to pass. She uses the best form of convincing — a folder of blackmail — 
to get him to change his vote to “yes.” 
Pope tells the senator that he’s in her world and convinces him to change his mind. After all, this is Olivia Pope’s 
world, and we’re all living in it. 
Pope continues to use her power in 
the Oval Ofﬁ  ce when Vice President 
Cyrus Beene talks about getting in front of cameras on news stations to 
get the word out about their free col-
lege bill. Pope says it would be better for her to be in front of cameras and for Vice President Beene to be behind 
the scenes.
After Pope hands over her company, 
Olivia Pope and Associates, to Quinn 
Perkins in a former season, the com-pany has trouble ﬁ  nding clients. They get their ﬁ  rst client and ﬁ  nd out a spy 
in the CIA is being held hostage in 
Bashran. Perkins takes the case to Pope for the White House to get to work on it.
Pope gives the ﬁ  le of the spy to her boyfriend, Jake Ballard, and he pro-poses a plan to kill the spy to keep him 
safe and keep him from giving informa-
tion. But as new head of B-613, Pope makes the calls, and she wants a kinder B-613 and, more importantly, wants to 
avoid killing American citizens.
 Despite Pope’s good intentions, 
Jake’s argument is clearly the more 
valid one. He goes behind Pope’s back and tells President Grant his plan to 
kill the spy, and she agrees. Pope is not 
happy with this decision, even though the President of the United States is the one that made it, and the President 
should have the most say.
Pope decides the right call to action 
is to make a phone call to potentially 
shoot the Bashrani ambassador’s child. Her lack of power in this situation lit-
erally drives her to potentially kill a 
child. Is her power driving her crazy? It’s certainly not normal to want to kill a child in order to get what you want, 
even if it’s to convince the Bashrani 
ambassador to free the spy behind the President’s back.
On another note, Pope doesn’t trust 
Vice President Beene. She hires a Dem-
ocratic senator to bribe him with an of-
fer that would make him president in four years if he puts down the free col-lege bill he has been working on. Beene 
considers the offer since Pope has been 
taking over some of his duties, but eventually declines once he realizes President Grant appreciates him. The number of times Pope has gone behind 
her friends’ backs in this episode has 
me wondering if she’ll have any left by the end of the season.
Olivia Pope’s conﬁ  dence in her pow-
er is what makes her Olivia Pope, but will it go too far? After all, it is Olivia Pope’s world. What happens in it will remain to be seen throughout the rest of this ﬁ  nal season. TV Review: Scandal Season Seven Premiere ‘Watch Me’ 
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
LOCAL
By Daniela Arias
Avenue Contributor 
Join bee fanatics and beer 
lovers alike at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company for an after-
noon of beers, honey tasting and 
honeybee education.
The Gainesville Area Beekeep-
ers and the Florida State Bee-
keepers will host Bees and Brews 
at First Magnitude, a brewery located downtown at 1220 SE Veitch St., Friday at 4 p.m. The event will raise money for the 
new UF Honey Bee Research and 
Extension Lab, which has been under construction since the be-ginning of this month. The lab 
will be located at the UF Depart-
ment of Entomology and Nema-tology on the southwest part of campus.
According to the UF Honey 
Bee Research and Extension Lab website, the team currently works on improving the health of bee pollinators and finding ways 
to gain more knowledge about 
bees at a local, national and in-ternational level.
“It’s really just a fun way to 
support science,” Ben Guzman, 
the event coordinator at First 
Magnitude, said.
The event will include a live 
honey bee demonstration colony, honey tasting and face painting. This event is family-friendly. Parents are encouraged to bring 
their children to learn about hon-
ey bees and the important role they have in the world.There is no entrance fee. 
There is only a suggested volun-tary donation that will go direct-ly to fundraising for the lab. At-
tendees will receive discounts on 
First Magnitude’s various beers after donating.“The decline of the honey bee 
population nationwide has been news for a long time now,” Guz-man said, “and we are interested in supporting UF’s commitment to helping to solve that problem 
through research.”He said representatives from 
Gainesville Area Beekeepers, 
Florida State Beekeepers and the UF Honey Bee Research and Extension Lab will be present at the event to provide information 
about honeybees, and explain what the new lab will be work-
ing on.
“If you want to support re-
search-based solutions to real 
world problems, I would say that 
it’s a good event to come to,” he said. Bees and Brews event to fundraise for new UF honey bee lab
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
The Matheson History Museum 
will celebrate the opening of its new 
Matheson Library & Archives and 
Mary Ann Cofrin Exhibit Hall on Sat-urday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. This 
expansion will allow for more exhibi-
tion space and preservation and will give history buffs more opportunities 
to visit the museum.
The museum’s main building at 
513 E. University Ave. will remain an exhibition space, while the former 
library located inside the building, now the Mary Ann Cofrin Exhibit 
Hall, will become additional exhibi-
tion space.
Misty Kar, a 23-year-old UF neuro-
biological science alumna, said that she’s looking forward to attending the grand opening, as more museum 
space means more opportunity for 
her to learn.
“I’m deﬁ  nitely looking forward 
to seeing some of the future exhib-its that will be held there,” Kar said. “I’m excited to learn more about my home state of Florida.”
The Mary Ann Cofrin Exhibit Hall 
will have the traveling exhibit “Find-ing the Fountain of Youth: Discov-
ering Florida’s Magical Waters” on 
display, which examines how the legend of Ponce de Leon’s quest for 
rejuvenating waters helped shape the 
Sunshine State’s enticing image.
According to the press release, the 
museum received a $300,000 grant in July  2015 from the Florida Depart-ment of State, Division of Historical 
Resources, to preserve and restore 
the former Gainesville Gospel Taber-nacle Church and Melting Pot build-
ing at 418 E. University Ave., which 
was renovated into the Matheson Li-brary & Archives building for visitors 
and researchers to enjoy.
Casey Wooster, a 25-year-old UF 
museum studies graduate student, said that as a regular visitor of the 
museum, she’s excited to attend the grand opening to see ﬁ  rsthand the 
evolution of the collections from 
the Matheson Museum to the new Matheson Library & Archives build-
ing.“They have done some amazing 
work in collecting and preserving 
Gainesville’s history,” Wooster said.
The entire Matheson History Mu-
seum complex will be open to the public allowing residents to explore and donate for the future desegrega-
tion and local sports history exhibits. 
Staff will be available at the Mathe-son Library & Archives to scan pho-
tos or documents that any Gainesville 
residents are not ready to donate, according to the Matheson Museum 
website. 
“The Matheson Museum cares for 
its collections in order to ensure that not only the objects, but most impor-
tantly, the history of Gainesville is preserved and available for present 
and future generations of this city,” 
said Wooster.
The free grand opening of the 
Matheson Library & Archives and the Mary Ann Cofrin Exhibit Hall will have parking available in the 
museum’s parking lot, located next 
to the ofﬁ  ces of Attorneys Folds and Walker and the Alachua County Pub-
lic School’s district ofﬁ  ce.  Matheson History Museum to open library and exhibit hall
LOCAL
Courtesy to The Alligator.
The Matheson History Museum is dedicated to 
preserving both Alachua County and Florida’s history.
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Bees & Brews will fundraise for the UF Honey Bee Research and Extension Lab. The team broke ground on this project on Oct. 2. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1-8-17-43-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1990 300 CE Mercedes Benz coupe.
Photos available. Call for price. 386-3772    
10-16-5-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring Foreman, Stone Masons & Tenders. Foreman must have 5-8 yrs exp. w/ all phases of masonry, be computer literate, physically capable to do job and have proven track record w/ references. Stone masons must have 5 yrs. exp. & tenders must have 2 yrs. exp. Contact Shelley between 8:00am-5:00pm. @ 352-636-1431  DFWP.   10-13-17-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       10-18-
17-6-14
Construction Laborers Needed!!Temp. Agency. Daily PayCall 352-505-0503 www.allfloridapersonnel.com       10-18-17-6-14.
Assistant to job foreman needed for masonry company. Duties incl.paperwork, operate mobile scaffold & general clean up. Bi-lingual a plus. DFWP. Call Shelley at 352-636-1431.    10-13-17-4-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. MYTHOLOGY: The Roman god 
Cupid was known by what name in 
Greek mythology?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Mount Fuji is 
found on which island in Japan?
3. BIBLE: The proverb “the writing 
is on the wall” can be found in what 
book of the Bible?
4. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Fifteen”?
5. ASTRONOMY: What is a parsec?
6. BIRTHSTONES: What is the offi-
cial birthstone for those born in June?
7. U.S. EXPLORERS: What U.S. 
flying pioneer was nicknamed “The 
Lone Eagle”?
8. MONEY: Prior to the euro, what 
was the common currency of Greece?
9. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of 
tree produces bay leaves, which are 
used in cooking?
10. MUSIC: How many strings do 
most violins have?
Answers
1. Eros
2. Honshu3. Book of Daniel, Chapter 54. Beverly Cleary5. A parsec is a unit of length, approx-
imately equal to 3.26 light years
6. Pearl7. Charles Lindbergh8. Drachma9. The bay laurel tree10. Four
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 9, 2017King Features Weekly Service
1.  ____ shop
1.  Batter, beat5.  Paris subway
2.  Small bag6.  ____ room
3.  ____ tail7.  Preacher
4.  PlayRPAYST
ELUMPMEMROT
LOTHE
HASCLET
SEORTORRICCLE
LIFCORANSWERS: 1A-Pastry  5A-Metro  6A-Hotel  7A-Cleric
1D-Pummel  2D-Satchel  3D-Rooster  4D-Frolic  B-Metric system10-11-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____ has been officially sanctioned 
for use in the U.S. since 1866. BONUS
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Ballet divisions
5 Crank (up)8 Hunchbacked lab
assistant
12 Un-fizzy
13 PGA Tour golf
course near
Miami
15 Fish in salade
niçoise
16 Inc. and LLC?
19 “No fighting!”
20 Self-worth
21 Gym unit22 Beaming and
shining?
25 Jibe
grammatically
28 Come-__:
enticements
29 Covent Garden
highlight
30 Wolfish look31 Pal of Pooh32 Green shampoo33 Ranking org. for
court players
34 Google operating
system
36 “Never __ Me
Go”: KazuoIshiguro novel
38 Blue Cross rival
40 Dr. with Grammys41 Managed __
42 Donkey sound
43 Tie the knot
44 Socialite Perle
45 “Got it!” and
“Roger that!”?
48 Hassle
49 Tic-tac-toe win50 “Green Eggs and
Ham” opening
53 “What are you in
for?” and “I was
framed”?
57 Like the T206
Honus Wagner
baseball card
58 Eats by
candlelight
59 Not in favor of
60 Summit
61 Affirmative action
62 Drain slowly
DOWN
1 Langley, e.g.:
Abbr.
2 Driver or putter3 Subdue with a
charge4 Cocktail made
with brandy and
crème de menthe
5 Timber often
used for guitar
fretboards
6 Triage locales,
briefly
7 “La Bamba”
singer Ritchie
8 Addams family
cousin
9 Military rebels
10 Ready for the
worst
11 Speaks with a
scratchy voice
13 Geometric art
style
14 __ Mason: asset
management
giant
17 Aswan Dam site
18 In the direction of23 Properly arranged24 Underground find25 Styled after, on a
menu
26 Be judged unfairly
27 Performer’s array31 Genetic code
transmitter
32 Often fruity
dessert34 Slangy “Let’s
move on ... ”
35 Like priests
37 What some
caddies carry
39 The Northwest’s
Sea-__ Airport
41 Private jet
choices
43 “Any
volunteers?”
44 Cultural pic that
may go viral45 Oscar-winning
director Frank
46 Frog habitat47 Pre-coll. exams51 Spots to 
conceal
52 Dole (out)
54 Kinsey research
focus
55 Producer of
some Talking
Heads albums
56 Sample
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/11/1710/11/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 11, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Pet adoption agcy.
5 West Indies tribe
for which a sea is
named
10 “Rhyme Pays”
rapper
14 Boxers Laila and
Muhammad
15 Carne __: burrito
filling
16 Benelux country:
Abbr.
17 Legendary terror
of the deep
19 __ blocker
20 Action hero
Jason in three
Ludlum novels
21 Swedish vodka
brand
23 Material
25 Prefix with space
26 “__ the Sheriff”:
Clapton hit
28 Under threat32 Like most people33 Comic’s perch34 Label for Elvis35 “Supervixens”
director Meyer
36 Honor roll
student’s
disappointment
37 Fashion line
38 Author’s ending?39 Celebrated chef
Ducasse
40 Copycats
41 Lovers of
wordplay
43 Get big on Twitter
44 Gumbo pod
45 Sierra Nevada
lake
47 Ginger’s “Gilligan’s
Island” hutmate
50 Repaired, as a
fence
53 Awesome,
nowadays
54 “Doesn’t matter
to me”
57 Old film dog58 “Family Matters”
misfit
59 Mirror shape
60 Quantum
movement?
61 Body of verse62 Sunday benches
DOWN
1 Airline to Oslo
2 Working-class
Roman3 Padua parting
4 Even though
5 Lacks what it
takes to
6 Equipment, in a
ledger
7 Lab rodent
8 Brainstorm9 Rihanna’s home
country
10 Congenital
11 “Forget You”
singer who was acoach on “TheVoice”
12 Caesar’s last
question
13 The one over
there
18 Lightweight
synthetic
22 Elite Navy fighter24 Names given to
an assassin
26 Rodeo
automaker
27 “Aye, lass,” in
Acapulco
29 Sentence
subject, usually
30 Birthday greeting
opened with a
click
31 Ewes’ guys32 Give it __: swing
hard
33 Prep for fight night
36 Tidies37 Radar gun user39 Big name in
razors
40 Rice-__42 Airport porter43 1986 horror film
in which a manbecomes aninsect46 Female French
friends
47 Repast48 Church area
behind an altar
49 Detective 
Wolfe
51 Roof overhang52 Sketch55 Just get (by)56 Golf Hall of
Famer Ernie
By Samuel A. Donaldson
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/10/1710/10/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 10, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 18 Personals
 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
Wednesday
By Ian Cohen 
Sports Writer
The players were still in their meeting 
room. The coach had left, but Jordan Sherit 
knew this issue needed to be addressed. He felt responsible: Florida has caused five turn-overs this season, tied for 104th in the na-
tion.
“We gotta find a way to change the 
game,” Sherit said after practice on Tuesday.
The redshirt senior was talking about his 
unit — the defensive line group — the ones 
who take pride in stopping the run and pres-
suring the quarterback but who have yet to 
recover a fumble this season.
The Gators are one of four FBS teams 
in the nation who haven’t. The other three teams are Buffalo, Appalachian State and Mississippi.
“That’s all effort,” Sherit said. “Nothing 
but effort.”
Heading into its matchup against Texas 
A&M (4-2, 2-1 SEC) this weekend, UF (3-2, 3-1 SEC) has placed an emphasis on causing turnovers, specifically fumbles. The Aggies lead the SEC with eight fumble recoveries.
Sherit said the team does turnover drills 
each practice, ripping the ball out of oppo-nent’s hands in hopes of winning the turn-over margin more frequently than they have 
this season. Florida is tied for 10th in the SEC 
with a minus-two turnover margin. 
“Just because we ain’t generated turn-
overs doesn’t mean we’re not working on it,” safety Chauncey Gardner said. “You have to keep working.”
Sherit said Florida has placed an empha-
sis on causing turnovers in practice lately, more so than usual. He’s hoping it pays off on Saturday.
“We have high expectations. We need to 
do a better job moving forward,” Sherit said. “And we have a good test coming up this week.” 
Players react to alternate uniforms:
Florida released a new alternate uniform 
that it will wear on Saturday, featuring a 
matte “swamp green” helmet and “swamp green” jersey, pants and cleats, according to a press release.The change marks the first time in pro-
gram history that UF will stray from its tradi-tional orange and blue color scheme.
After Tuesday’s practice, several players 
gave their nod of approval for the new gear.
“I didn’t know what to expect,” receiver 
Josh Hammond said. “When we saw them, a lot of guys were ecstatic to get it on and 
finally come out with something different.” 
Others weren’t as enthusiastic.“Yeah, I don’t really care,” redshirt junior 
defensive lineman Taven Bryan said. 
But Khairi Clark did. The redshirt junior 
said his favorite part of the uniform are the 
green alligator scales lining the jersey, and said he appreciated the program doing some-
thing different for the players.
“(Now) we can have a new uniform to 
wear instead of the same thing all the time,” Clark said.Gardner said the players asked for a new 
uniform about two years ago, and UF coach 
Jim McElwain made it happen.
“We were just asking, like, a little bit 
more swag, add something to it,” Gardner said. “He did what he had to do and he came 
through.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
Sophomore swimmer Kelly 
Fertel  represented T eam USA 
in the Maccabiah Games, also known as the "Jewish Olympics" in Israel over the summer. Read the story, pg. 15.UF offensive lineman likens uniforms to water
Junior guard Fred Johnson said some of his teammates didn't like the new alter-
nate uniforms. "You can't please everybody in our society," Johnson said. "Like 
if they ever have to drink water and they're like 'I don't wanna drink the water. ' You need water to survive ... the majority of people are coming around to it. "Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The Gators recently released photos of the 
alternate uniforms they plan to wear on Sat-
urday night, and I couldn’t be more excited. 
The greenish-gray uniforms are designed af-
ter actual alligators and will be paired with matte green helmets featuring a Gator logo.
You’ve probably already heard about the 
uniforms, either from your roommate who’s looking to buy a novelty jersey, or from your grandparents who are convinced the design encourages Satanism.Personally, I’m impressed. 
As I was looking at the photos on Twitter, the unique aesthetic 
completely distracted me from 
the nine UF players facing felony charges.
As I was watching a hype vid-
eo the team posted, the thought never crossed my mind that more than 100 FBS teams have a more productive offense than Florida.The more I looked at the al-
ternates, the more I forgot that UF’s season is effectively over 
after five games. And the more I 
thought about the uniforms, the less I thought about how coach Jim McElwain — billed as an 
offensive genius — has scored 
fewer points per game at UF than Will Muschamp, the hated coach McElwain replaced.The green jerseys look almost like camou-
flage, so you can’t see the team if you look at the AP Top 25. The trendy gloves are great 
for protecting players’ fingers as they furi-
ously tweet their frustrations after each loss. The helmets are so safe that no one will get a concussion when McElwain throws his de-
fense under the bus.
The best part is the “swamp green” cleats. 
UF’s new uniforms are so cool they almost make me forget how bad the team isMatt's What She Said / Opinion
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF is one of four FBS teams that has yet to recover a fumble. Defensive end Jordan Sherit said the team is emphasizing 
takeaways leading up to Saturday's game vs. T exas A&M. "We have high expectations, " Sherit said. "We need to do a better job. " 
Gators defense still looking to force team's first fumble 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16NOTEBOOKWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By River Wells
Sports Writers
 
More than 9,000 people competed in the 
Maccabiah Games in Israel over the summer. 
Of them, 1,120 represented Team USA, and 
of those, only one of them was Florida Gators swimmer Kelly Fertel.
The Maccabiah Games, often referred to 
as the “Jewish Olympics,” are open to all Jewish and Israeli athletes, taking place in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem every four years. In the 2017 games, Fertel won five gold medals (four individual) and two silver medals (one 
individual).
“Not only was it a good experience swim-
ming wise, but culture wise and religious 
wise,” Fertel said.
While she excelled in the games them-
selves, the event also gave her a chance to see some of Israel’s most prominent land-marks.
“We went everywhere,” she said. “We went to the Dead Sea, we went to Masada, the Western Wall, Old Jerusalem, Tel Aviv. 
They made sure we hit all the important 
things.”
From the opening and 
closing ceremonies — which featured the Parade 
of Nations, an Olympic-esque march of the com-peting countries in accor-dance with the Hebrew 
alphabet — the Maccabiah 
Games are a cultural celebration of Judaism, 
an experience Fertel walked away from with a brand new viewpoint.
“It kinda gave me a new insight on my 
religion,” she said. “I was religious before, and celebrated holidays, but I guess it gave me a new appreciation and insight on it … I think it helped shape me more as a person.”
Fertel’s opportunity to compete in the 
games was not only met with enthusiasm on her part, but on her family’s as well.“Excited doesn’t describe how excited or 
proud they were,” she said. “It was literally 
as if I had won the Olympics. It was crazy.”
Coming off her stellar performance at the 
games, Fertel placed first in the 200 individ-
ual medley  Sept. 22 at the All-Florida Invita-
tional with a time of 2:02.42, where the wom-
en’s team took first place for the eighth year in row. With the first meet of the year over, the team has been preparing for its second meet against Texas and Indiana on Oct. 20.
“The All-Florida Invitational was the first 
meet of the year, and energy was high,” she said. “I  definitely took a lot of learning from my swimming, I watched race videos 
and talked to my coaches about my races, so 
there’s definitely more work to be done. That next Monday, we were already back in the water, getting ready to go; it’s on to the next one.”
After all the preparation, Fertel is look-
ing forward to the team’s next opponents in Texas and Indiana.“I’m excited for this meet. Texas and Indi-
ana are high caliber teams,” she said. “I think 
we’re definitely looking forward to improv-
ing as a team. Last year we came short of our goals, so this year we’re very motivated to succeed.”
Fertel spent three weeks in Israel for the 
Maccabiah Games this summer, traveling to its various sacred locations and representing her country at one of the biggest events in the world. She’s also competing in Gainesville 
for the Gators this year, and through it all, the 
most important part of swimming to Fertel is the people who surround her.
“A happy swimmer is a fast swimmer,” 
she said, chuckling as she admitted she stole the phrase from fellow teammate Amelia Maughan. “My teammates and my coaches are awesome. I think we all just like to have fun, and that’s why we swim well.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
From 'Jewish Olympics' to O'Dome, UF sophomore making wavesSOCCER
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida soccer team is on an 
offensive tear.
The Gators are coming off a week 
where they scored early and often, 
taking down SEC foes Missouri and Vanderbilt in the process.   
“I think it means a lot in terms of 
confidence,” junior midfielder Sarah Troccoli said. “We lost to Texas A&M 
and we’ve slowly been building back 
up from then. So it gives us good mo-
mentum going forward.”
Since UF’s lone conference loss 
to the Aggies, the team has strung 
together a four-game win streak and 
held a positive differential of 10 goals. 
Florida has scored first in all four games as well, with its opening goals against Missouri and Vanderbilt com-
ing inside the first 15 minutes. 
And when they score first, the 
Gators have been particularly effec-
tive. They’re 9-0 in matches when they’ve scored first. On five occa-
sions, that goal has come in the first 
15 minutes. 
“When you score early it just kind 
of makes the game a different tenor,” 
UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “It 
gives you confidence, and when it 
happens you get really appreciative 
of it.”
When Burleigh’s team scores an 
early goal, it usually means more are on the way.
In matches where it opens the 
scoring inside of 15 minutes, Florida has outscored its opponents 13-2. And a big part of this dominance is the performance of freshman forward Deanne Rose. 
Rose has been a strong presence 
in the UF attack all season, leading the team in goals (8), points (18), shots (39) and shots on goal (21). The freshman has also been the first name on the score sheet on three oc-casions this season, twice scoring in the opening 15 minutes. 
While Rose has stood out on of-
fense since the start of the season, she has been especially effective since mid-September. 
In UF's past six games, Rose has 
scored seven goals and recorded one  assist. And she’s been efficient to 
go along with her shooting volume, putting 15 of her 23 shots on target over that span. 
“Deanne has 
been creating these opportuni-ties all season, 
and now she’s putting those away,” Burleigh said. “I think we’re doing a better job of playing with her, she’s doing a better job of playing with us.”
Rose and the No. 10 Gators (11-2, 
5-1 SEC) look to continue their strong play at home on Thursday against a tough, non-conference opponent in the middle of its SEC slate, No. 16 Florida State. 
The match was rescheduled be-
cause of Hurricane Irma, which may prove advantageous for the surging Gators.
“It’s a little odd to have a noncon-
ference game in the schedule, but it’s better than losing this game to a hur-ricane two years in a row,” Burleigh said. “It always has national interests because of the quality of the two teams involved. So I think both teams appreciate getting this game back on the schedule.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgLed by freshman, Gators 
offense picking up steam
SWIMMINGWOMEN'S BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Delicia Washington told report-
ers on Monday that first-year coach 
Cameron Newbauer has some moves, but he also has some more to learn.
“I’m gonna teach him the dab,” 
Washington said. “He hasn’t hit it yet.”
During the team’s shootaround 
before practice, Newbauer was asked how his dance lessons with Washington are going. Then, New-bauer called over his sophomore guard to the sideline.
“You’re going to teach me 
dance moves?” Newbauer asked Washington. “That’s confusing be-cause Delicia has already came to me twice asking where I learned my stuff.”
Apart from the dancing, the 
Gators women’s basketball team has begun practicing for the start 
of its season, which begins Nov. 
11 against Georgia State at the O’Connell Center.Newbauer getting specific:
Forward Haley Lorenzen said 
Newbauer’s practices have been intense and “detail-oriented.”
“He hasn’t been afraid to stop 
practice multiple times to make 
sure we get it right,” Lorenzen 
said. “And I think that’s something that’s really unique to him.”
When asked about the progres-
sion of the team in its first week, Newbauer said he has seen great enthusiasm and effort from the squad.
“You have a coaching change 
and someone like me that’s big into details and likes to do a lot of different things, it demands a lot from our players in terms of their focus and their resolve to play through mistakes while learning new things,” Newbauer said. “So I’ve really been excited with their resilience as a group and the char-
acter that they’re showing.”
Transfer tears ACL:
Despite only being on the court for a week, the Gators will be with-out one of their 14 players on the roster for the rest of the season.
Corey Staples, a junior from Bu-
ford, Georgia, tore her left ACL dur-ing one of the team’s first drills on its opening day of practice. Accord-
ing to coach Newbauer, Staples 
knee buckled a little bit to the side.
Newbauer said UF’s medical 
staff is waiting for Staples’ swelling goes down before it makes a deci-sion on when she’ll have surgery.
The 5-foot-8 guard was in a 
brace during practice on Monday, working to the side with one of 
Florida’s assistant coaches.
“She was gonna play,” New-
bauer said on Monday.
Staples, a transfer from Santa Fe 
College, averaged 12.4 points per 
game last season with the Saints. She was a second-team All Confer-ence player for the Mid Florida con-ference last season.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org Florida opens fall practice with 
drills, dancing and a new coach
Alligator File Photo
Delicia Washington (00) said she wants to teach coach Cameron Newbauer some new dance moves 
before the season starts. "I'm gonna teach him the dab, " Washington said. "He hasn't hit it yet. "
Rose
Fertel
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2017
Florida can wear them for multiple 
games this season since the paint from the end zone will never rub 
off on them.
And then it hit me: Who cares if the team is a mess as long as its 
uniforms are clean? I always hear 
analysts talking about style points. 
Well, if you count style points, then the Gators are the highest-scoring team in college football.
I don’t think Florida even needs 
to play Texas A&M on Saturday. The team has already accomplished so much this season by wearing a 
uniform without an orange and 
blue theme.
Sophomore receiver Josh Ham-
mond put it perfectly yesterday.
“Nobody’s ever done it before,” 
he said after practice. “This will be a one-time thing that will go down in the history books for us because 
we ﬁ  nally got a chance to try some-
thing different in a Gator uniform.”
Josh and I are in agreement. 
Florida has already made history.
Even if you don’t like the uni-
forms, I think you should buy them. If nothing else, they’ll keep you nice and cozy from the cold re-
ality that your team doesn’t matter 
anymore.
Matt Brannon is the Alliga-
tor's sports editor. Contact him at mbrannon@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14UF 's new uniforms provide a distraction from on-ield struggles
Courtesy of UAA Communications
The Gators football team unveiled a new alternate uniform Monday night that will be worn this weekend against T exas A&M. The uniform is predominantly "swamp 
green, " marking the first time UF won't wear its traditional colors of orange and blue. The jersey is covered in a gator print designed to look like scales.
