We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 137 TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
This week in UF sports
Gators gymnastics will compete in NCAA 
Championships this Friday at 8 p.m., pg. 14
UF SG hosts Sexual Assault Awareness Day 
About 300 students signed a pledge, pg. 5
Three dead in California school shooting
The suspected shooter killed himself, police say, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld            
and Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writers
At the front of a middle-school 
auditorium, 27-year-old Kristen 
Reaver faced-off with 61-year-old 
Republican Rep. Ted Yoho.
Reaver was one of about 20 con-
stituents chosen in a lottery-style 
system to ask the congressman, 
who represents Alachua, Clay, Bradford and parts of Marion Coun-
ty, a 45-second-or-less question at 
his second Gainesville town hall of 
the year.
The town hall, which drew an 
audience of almost 500, was held Monday evening at Abraham Lin-
coln Middle School, located at 1001 
SE 12th St. Similar to Yoho’s ﬁ  rst town hall in the city, held on March 4, the majority of attendees weren’t 
fans of the congressman.
“Do you believe human activ-ity is the leading 
cause of climate 
change?” Reaver, 
who has a bach-
elor’s and mas-ter’s degree in environmental 
science, asked.
“No,” the con-
gressman immediately interjected.
“Please explain why your per-
sonal opinion as a nonexpert in the 
ﬁ  eld is more valuable than the evi-dence of 97 percent of scientists,” Reaver pressed.
Her rebuttal received a standing 
ovation.
At Yoho’s previous town hall, 
disgruntled Yoho protesters clashed with the congressman as well as the 
few attendees who supported him. 
At the end, a supporter of President Donald Trump was punched in the face and taken to the hospital, ac-
cording to Alligator archives.
On Monday, Yoho had trouble speaking over the continuous cho-rus of boos and heckles. Of the 
nearly 50 similar town halls the congressman has participated in throughout his career, he said Mon-
day’s audience gave him the most 
trouble.
“I really expected them to be a 
bit more civil,” Yoho said. “This was the rowdiest crowd.” 
Joy Pitts, the leader of Gaines-  Tension, disagreements at second Yoho town hall
Yoho
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Mariam ElSafty, 18, a UF biology freshman and chair member of Students Organize for Syria, lays 
on Turlington Plaza on Monday while holding a sign that says “Free Syria” to raise awareness for the humanitarian crisis in Syria.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
As Century Tower’s bells 
echoed across the crowded Turl-ington Plaza on Monday, four stu-dents collapsed to the ground.
They laid with makeup wounds 
painted on their faces and arms, their hands clutched around their throats. Other students stood over them with signs declaring “Your silence is deadly” and “Free Syr-ia.”
It was part of a die-in put on 
by Students Organize for Syria to raise awareness about the ongoing Syrian humanitarian crisis, the re-sult of a years-long civil war in the Middle Eastern country.
Hassan Syed, the organization’s 
vice president, said the event had been planned before the recent chemical weapons attack on Syr-ian civilians and a retaliatory U.S. missile strike, but after hearing the news they realized it was time to put their plan into motion.
On Thursday, the U.S. launched 
59 Tomahawk missiles on a Syrian government air base in response to the April 4 chemical attacks, which killed dozens of Syrian citi-zens, according to the Associated Press. 
President Donald Trump, how-
ever, has proposed indeﬁ  nitely halting the country’s intake of Syr-ian refugees.
The UF group wanted to make 
people question the ongoing con-ﬂ  ict in Syria.
“Innocent children, innocent 
women, innocent men, they’re all dying because of the chemical gas,” said Syed, a 17-year-old UF microbiology freshman. “Maybe one day something like (the die-in) will give someone, even one person out there, a better idea of what’s going on.” Student ‘die-in’ brings 
Syrian crisis to campus 
ABOUT 500 CUSTOMERS 
CAME MONDAY.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Before it closed at 6 p.m., Do-Lish 
had to start turning people away.
The cookie dough bakery, whose 
dough is made with heat-treated 
ﬂ  our and doesn’t contain eggs, saw about 500 customers on its opening day. 
Prices range from $4 for a small 
cup to $9 for a large. 
Shortly before closing, however, 
the bakery — which follows in the trending footsteps of similar bakeries across the country — ran out of cook-ie dough, said owner Jolie Nantz.
“All of a sudden it went crazy at 
1 or 2 o’clock. The line started to go out the door,” she said.
The bakery, located at 1113 W. 
University Ave., ofﬁ  cially opened at 11 a.m. Monday after originally be-ing set to open Friday. 
The opening was delayed due to 
an issue with a county permit, Nantz said.
When Ally Fiore, an 18-year-old 
UF nursing freshman, arrived around 5 p.m., an hour before close, she expected the store to be busy and was prepared to wait in the roughly 20-minute line.
“The line is a little long, but it’ll 
be worth it once we get to the front,” she said. 
For Josh Silverstone, he wanted 
to play it safe with his ﬁ  rst order, buying a scoop of chocolate chip cookie dough.
The 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance se-nior said he’d never been to a cookie dough shop, but he plans to order cookies and cream the next time he visits.
“It’s a lot better than I thought 
it’d be,” Silverstone said. “It’s just like eating regular cookie dough, but without the guilt.”
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org 
 Gainesville cookie dough shop makes opening-day splashSEE YOHO,  PAGE 4
SEE SYRIA,  PAGE 3Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  82° LOW  56°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Do you know what you think you 
know? 
Challenging stereotypes and per-spectives on immigration in the past and present, UF doctoral can-
didate Alexis Baldacci will give a 
talk for the exhibit “The Cuban-American Dream” in Smathers Library. The presentation will be today from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the library’s Latin American and Caribbean Collection. She will discuss the challenges and oppor-tunities presented by creating an 
exhibit in collaboration with the 
libraries.
Gainesville Citizens for 
Alternatives to the Death Penalty hosts Criminal Trial Attorney Adam TebruggeThe public is invited to hear a Sarasota, Florida, attorney and 
Thomas Cooley Law School ad-
junct professor give a presenta-tion titled “The End of the Death Penalty in Florida is Within Sight.” It will be held today at 7 p.m. at the Emmanuel Mennonite Church, 1236 NW 18th Ave. Contributing to the discussion will be UF Levin College of Law 
professor Kenneth Nunn, one of 
three UF professors to sign a let-ter in support of State Attorney Aramis Ayala, who announced she would no longer seek the death penalty. There is ample parking, and refreshments will be served. Call 352-278-4342 for more information.
How we Created a World 
Champion Robot (MIL/CIMAR: UF Robotics)See and hear about NaviGator, UF’s latest world-champion ro-bot boat. The organization will also share the histories of the two foremost robotics labs on cam-
pus, MIL and CIMAR. This semi-
nar will also serve as a recruiting event for robot submarine and boat teams for the Summer and Fall semesters. If you are inter-ested in being a part of the orga-nization’s future world-champion teams, please attend. The event will take place Wednesday at 5:10 
p.m. in UF’s NEB 100. It is free 
and open to the public. Children are welcome. Send questions to ems@ufl.edu.
RUB Entertainment presents: 
Chris GethardChris Gethard will be perform-ing stand-up comedy in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Gethard is the host and star of “The Chris Gethard Show” on Fusion, and plays the char-acter Todd on Comedy Central’s “Broad City.” Other credits in-clude Comedy Central’s “Inside Amy Schumer,” NBC’s “Parks and Recreation,” “The Office,” 
“The Heat” and Mike Birbiglia’s 
film “Don’t Think Twice.” Chris is also the author of the book “A Bad Idea I’m About to Do: True Tales of Seriously Poor Judgment and Stunningly Awkward Adventure.”
GatorNights: Bon Voyage
Give your summer spirit a kick-start as you make your own flip-flops and friendship brace-lets. Rejuvenate yourself with a custom sugar scrub or grab an appointment for a chair mas-sage. Others will walk the plank if you win casino games, and bring your pool-deck spirit dur-
ing the limbo competition. Set 
your sails to the Reitz Union Auditorium as you catch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of “John Wick: Chapter 2.” Pride Awareness Month will be host-ing “Opulence: A Drag Show” in the Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
'Hymns and Heroes from the 
Movies'
Can you imagine your favor-
ite epic film without a rousing musical score? Can you imag-ine the final lightsaber duel be-tween Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Darth Maul in “Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace” without the pulse-pounding beat of the drums, the 
driving orchestrated energy cou-
pled with the “war-cry” lyrics in the old Welsh tongue? We doubt it would be nearly as exhilarating. Join the UF Choral Union and the Gainesville Master Chorale as they present “Hymns and Heroes from the Movies” at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on 
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are 
$10 to $40 and can be purchased at performingarts.ufl.edu. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
School of Theatre and Dance pres-
ents William Shakespeare’s 'King Lear'
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance is pleased to present “King Lear” now through Saturday at Constans Theatre. Deception and intrigue are the name of the game in “King Lear,” one of the most famous tragedies of all time. Lear is ready to step down from his throne and sets out to hand over the kingdom evenly to his three daughters, but their response is anything from what he expects. This Dali-inspired production 
reimagines Shakespeare’s heart-
wrenching tale of family and the struggle for power where chaos and tragedy abound. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF fac-ulty staff and seniors, and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box 
Office. More information is avail-
able at arts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
 In an article published April 6 titled “UF grads start Arizona mu-sic festival, now in fourth year,” the Alligator incorrectly report-ed the cost of “glamping” to be 
$1,500. The correct cost is $2,500 
for two people.In an article published April 10 titled “New Publix prepares for summer opening,” the Alligator incorrectly reported that the gro-cery store will be located at 3720 NW 13th St. It will be located at 203 NW 13th St. 
CLARIFICATION  
In an article published April 7, titled "Handler next Accent speaker," the Alligator report-ed that Chelsea Handler and MSNBC correspondent Jacob 
Soboroff were paid a combined 
$125,500 for their upcoming ap-pearance at UF, based on an in-terview with Accent chairman Mike Greenberg. An MSNBC represenatitive on April 10 said Soboroff declined his portion of the honorarium in accordance with news standards. In a follow-
up, Greenberg said Handler will 
be paid the full honorarium.VOLUME 111 ISSUE 137TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
Though Syed said he isn’t from 
Syria, he’s passionate about the 
issue, and it hurts him to know others are unaware of the conﬂ  ict.
“What’s even worse is when 
people know what’s going on, but then they refuse to acknowledge it or refuse to think of it as a big deal,” he said. 
Rama Hussein, who participat-
ed in the die-in, said she can viv-idly imagine the location of each attack in Syria. Hussein is Syrian, and she said the best summers of her life were her childhood visits to the country.
Though her aunts, uncles and 
cousins still live in Damascus, Hussein said she hasn’t returned to Syria since 2011. She’s angry that the international community has let the situation continue and hopes more people spread the word about the ongoing conﬂ  ict. 
“If more people just share it on 
social media, the stuff they see, I think it would spread the word even more,” she said.
As he walked through Turling-
ton, Jordi Zapata stopped to take a photo of the students on the ground. Zapata, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, said he knew 
Syrian refugees from his high 
school near Clearwater, Florida. 
Meeting them gave him a new 
perspective on what others en-dure, he said.
“Their sense of home is differ-
ent than ours,” he said. “And to see their connection to home get ruined, I can’t even imagine what it’d be like.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org 
SYRIA,  from pg. 1A Syrian student participated in the ‘die-in’ on UF campus
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Rama Hussein, 21, a UF biology junior, holds a sign that reads “Your Silence is Deadly” while members of Students Organize for Syria demonstrated a die-in on Monday.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Members of Students Organize for Syria and participants of the SOS “Die-In” demonstration stand together holding their signs on Turlington Plaza on Monday afternoon.
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
ville’s chapter of Indivisible, a 
national movement dedicated to resisting policies implemented by 
Trump’s administration, said the 
audience’s volume level was to be expected — and that Yoho’s re-sponses weren’t straight forward.
“I think there was a lot of circle 
talk coming from the congressman, that’s the frustration,” she said. “Democracy is loud. Democracy is messy.”
One member of Indivisible 
changed Yoho’s mind regarding Trump’s unreleased tax returns. 
Yoho told audience members 
that at ﬁ  rst, he didn’t care if Trump released the returns because it wasn’t something required by the constitution. However, when the anti-Trump activist visited his ofﬁ  ce 
to explain how suspicious Trump’s 
international business dealings were in relation to his presidency, Yoho had a change of heart.
While Yoho has crossed Trump 
before — namely as a member of the House Freedom Caucus that helped sink the president’s pro-
posed health care act — Pitts said 
she thinks this is the ﬁ  rst time Yoho has publicly called for Trump to re-lease his tax returns. 
“Our voice does get heard every 
once and awhile,” she said. 
While the line gathered, about 
15 people sat at two picnic tables 
pulled together with Scott Hunter as 
he hosted a seder, a meal that wel-comes the Jewish holiday of Pass-over. 
About 50 more watched while in 
line.
He served matzo, a type of ﬂ  at 
Jewish cracker; grape juice; and 
horseradish and served the food to people standing in line. He said he 
was dismayed the town hall was planned for the ﬁ  rst night of Pass-
over. 
“Every Jew in Gainesville had to 
make a decision tonight,” he said. 
“They could either celebrate their freedom of religion with their fam-
ily or their freedom of speech here.”
During the rest of the town hall, 
constituents asked questions relat-
ed to health care, climate change, 
women’s health, transgender rights, 
Trump’s tax returns and Russia’s intervention in the presidential elec-tion. 
Yoho told the audience he dis-
agreed with Trump’s decision to 
bomb the Syrian air ﬁ  eld Friday.  
He said he’s opposed to further 
air strikes and is deﬁ  nitely not in fa-
vor of sending troops. 
“I was very angry that night,” he 
said. “Killing people is just wrong. There’s enough killing going on.”
Alachua County Commissioner 
Ken Cornell sat in the second row while Yoho addressed the crowd. He said although they disagree on 
issues such as the environment and 
health care, he’s glad Yoho took the time to listen to the citizens. 
“I appreciate him actually hold-
ing the town hall. I think that’s im-
portant,” Cornell said. “We don’t 
agree on a lot of things, but I’m glad he’s here listening to the people.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
@mollyvossler
mvossler@alligator.org YOHO,  from pg.1A Passover dinner was 
organized outside the 
town hall meeting
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Attendees of the town hall meeting with T ed Yoho wait in line outside of Abraham Lincoln Middle 
School, located at 1001 SE 12 St., on Monday. 
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
T ed Yoho leads the Pledge of Allegiance at his town hall meeting at Abraham Lincoln Middle School, located at 1001 SE 12 St., on Monday evening. 
“Our voice does get heard 
every once and awhile.”
Joy Pitts
Indivisible Gainesville leaderTUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
SG OFFICIALS 
ENCOURAGED STUDENTS 
TO SIGN CONSENT 
PLEDGES.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
About 300 UF students signed 
a pledge Monday to recognize 
that non-consensual sex is con-sidered sexual assault.
During UF Student Govern-
ment’s Sexual Assault Aware-ness Day, SG ofﬁ  cers visited UF residence halls to encourage more students to sign pledges and worked with UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, or STRIVE, to host a consent workshop.
Natalie Martinez, the event 
organizer, said she promoted ac-tivities through social media, told various organizations about the 
day and shared it through Gator 
Times.
Despite this, only six students, 
ﬁ  ve wearing SG polos, attended the consent workshop.
During the workshop, Marie 
McGrath, a LEAD peer educator with STRIVE, and Rita Lawrence, the organization’s coordinator, 
discussed what qualiﬁ  es as sexual 
consent: verbal agreement to par-ticipate in sexual acts.“Consent is basically about 
communication,” McGrath said. “It should be mutual.”
The two said sexual assault 
can happen in any relationship, no matter people’s gender, sexu-ality or the type of relationship.
Consent should be voluntary, 
sober, wanted and enthusiastic, McGrath said.
“Consent is ongoing,” McGrath 
said. “You need consent for every step and every single time.”McGrath said that when some-
one is asking for consent, the per-son needs to be clear and not use vague terms like “hook up.”  
Lawrence said consent is only 
given if a person says “yes.” Say-ing “no” isn’t the only sign that someone isn’t giving consent.
“Silence is not consent,” she 
said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  
The Associated Press
SAN BERNARDINO, California 
(AP) — A husband opened ﬁ  re on 
his wife Monday in a San Bernardi-no elementary school classroom, killing her and a student in a mur-
der-suicide that spread panic across 
a city still recovering emotionally 
from a terrorist attack at a commu-
nity center just 15 months ago.
The shooter also died, and a sec-
ond student was critically wounded at North Park Elementary School.
“The children, we do not be-
lieve, were targeted,” police Capt. Ron Maass told reporters.
The gunman was identiﬁ  ed as 
53-year-old Cedric Anderson, of 
Riverside, who shot his wife, Elaine 
Smith, also 53. She was a teacher in the special-needs classroom for stu-
dents in ﬁ  rst through fourth grades.
Anderson said nothing as he be-
gan ﬁ  ring a large-caliber revolver, according to police. Both of the chil-
dren who were hit were standing 
behind Smith. An 8-year-old later 
died. The other student was hospi-
talized in stable condition.
The gunman had a history of weapons, domestic violence and 
possible drug charges that predated the marriage, which lasted only a few months, authorities said.
The boy who died was identiﬁ  ed 
as Jonathan Martinez. Authorities did not name the other boy who was wounded.
The 600 other students at the 
school were bused to safety at California State University’s San 
Bernardino campus, several miles 
away. Television news footage 
showed students, escorted by police 
ofﬁ  cers, walking off campus hand-in-hand.
As word of the shooting spread, 
panicked parents raced to the 
school, some in tears, some praying, 
as they anxiously sought informa-tion about their children. They were 
told to go to a nearby high school 
where they would be reunited.
Four hours later, the children be-
gan to arrive at the high school, get-
ting hugs from emotional parents. As the students got off the buses, many of them carrying glow sticks 
they had been given to pass the 
time with, police ofﬁ  cers applauded 
and high-ﬁ  ved them.When the buses ﬁ  rst pulled 
away, some parents ran alongside, waving and trying to recognize their children inside. Many said their children were too young to have cellphones. Others said the phones rang unanswered.
Among those waiting anxiously 
at the high school for her 9-year-old granddaughter’s return was Alberta Terrell, who said she cried with re-
lief when she was told that a fam-
ily friend saw the girl getting safely 
onto a bus.
“I was really elated. But I won’t 
be truly happy until I see her and 
can give her a big hug,” Terrell said 
as she sat in the bleachers near 
Cajon High School’s baseball dia-
mond.
San Bernardino, a city of 216,000 
people about 60 miles east of Los 
Angeles, was the site of a Decem-
ber 2015 terror attack that killed 14 
people and wounded 22 others at a 
meeting of San Bernardino County employees. Husband-and-wife shooters Syed Rizwan Farook and 
Tashfeen Malik were later killed in 
a gunbattle with authorities.  Student Government hosts Sexual Assault Awareness Day
 Likely murder-suicide at school kills two adults, one child
The Associated Press
Camilo Rocha, left, comforts his daughter, Serina, an 11-year-old 
student at North Park Elementary School, after they were reunited at Cajon High School on Monday in San Bernardino, California, after a deadly shooting occurred at the elementary school.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Don’t regret the 
things you didn’t 
do in college 
As the school year rounds off, it can become easy to 
fall into the slump of “could have beens” and “didn’t do’s.” This, perhaps, hits graduating students the hardest, but no one is immune from the curse. It is the end of things that causes us to look back, after all, 
and wonder what we would have done differently. Though there are some who marched conﬁ  dently through this entire school year, through their entire college careers, a lot of us have a few “what ifs” that will always be on our minds — what if you’d studied harder for calculus 3? What if you changed your major earlier? What if you asked out that girl from your poetry class? What if you hadn’t wasted three months dating that guy you met at a woodser? What if you went to that party instead of staying in? What if you’d tried harder? What if you’d let yourself rest?
You might only have a few of these. You might be weighed 
down by them. But chances are, you have experienced these feelings of “what if,” “could have been” and “didn’t do.”
Perhaps it is time to reﬂ  ect on exactly why these thoughts 
come to mind.
Society has a speciﬁ  c idea of what college should be: Major 
in something you’re passionate about but will also get you internships and high-paying jobs, maintain a respectable GPA and also join organizations, snag leadership positions and do your own research, go out on weekends, tailgate at foot-ball games and wear togas in a strange house surrounded by sweaty men, play the dating ﬁ  eld but eventually settle down with someone from a similar demographic as you, whose fu-ture goals align with yours, and most of all, that these are going to be the best four years of your life — make sure that they are. 
Chances are very few of us can check off all those criteria, 
but for some reason, we all think that everyone else has man-aged to complete the list. This can be where some of those “could have been” and “what if” feelings stem from. If you’d done something different, maybe you would have checked off a few more items on the list. 
Instead of dwelling on what could have been, put away that 
list, and think about what you did do. Even though you waited too long to switch your major, maybe you discovered a new passion. Maybe you didn’t go tailgating all the time, but you did have board game nights with your friends. Maybe you did ﬂ  unk physics and had to switch out of engineering — but you did get a few crazy nights and stories to tell.
Now, we’re not saying that we should never acknowledge 
the bad decisions or the ones we made too late, but often we let those weigh us down and overshadow the good things we did get to experience. Focusing on the good is easier said than done, but we can all take some solidarity in the fact that this is not an abnormal experience. 
At the end of the day, you might not have had the picture-
perfect college experience, but you had your experience, and it’s worth it to focus on the good that happened and hold those moments close as the year ends, as college ends for some and as you move on to a new beginning. 
 I spent the past year writing a sixty-page thesis
In all honesty, I’m still not entirely sure 
why I decided to write a thesis. Maybe I decided to do it because I like making 
my own life difﬁ  cult. Maybe I like having 
something to complain about at all hours 
of the day. Maybe I just wanted to be able to say, “I have to work on my thesis” out loud, 
leaving friends and strangers alike dazzled by 
my dedication to long-form academic inquiry. 
The one thing I do know is that exactly one 
year ago, I made the decision to take on this equally fulﬁ  lling and infuriating project after 
thinking to myself, “Yeah, I could probably do that.” 
Despite being told that law schools couldn’t care less about an English thesis, and there was little-to-no reason I should take on the unnecessary responsibility during 
my last year of college, I couldn’t be dissuaded. I didn’t 
know what I wanted to write about or how I would ﬁ  nd the time, but for some reason I felt like I needed to do it.
By the time you’re reading this, I will have just turned 
in the ﬁ  nal version of my sixty-page baby. I can only 
imagine that, as I hand it to my department coordina-
tor, I’ll be beaming with maternal pride and might even shed a tear. But in all seriousness, though I’m in the ﬁ  nal stretch, the 12 months I spent working on this thing have 
come with their fair share of highs and lows, as well as 
the occasional lesson.
The ﬁ  rst thing I learned was that no one cares about 
your thesis. Not your mom or your best friend or the poor stranger who was just trying to hit on you at Mid-
town but is now backed into a corner while you rattle on 
about annotated bibliographies. Sometimes, it’s incred-ibly difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd the motivation to work on something that you know only three people, including yourself, will 
ever read. But you can also take refuge in that knowl-
edge by convincing yourself you now join the ranks of other unrecognized geniuses, since no one can tell you otherwise.   
Additionally, the knowledge you acquire 
through a year of conducting research on one 
topic will be so narrow and so deep that you’ll 
feel simultaneously brilliant and stupid. I of-ten think about how the specialized knowl-edge I now posses must have pushed out some 
other, probably more important, information I 
learned in my childhood. I recently forgot how to spell “volcano,” but I also know all about Foucauldian poetics if that ever comes up in conversation, so I suppose it’s a trade-off. 
This inevitably leads to your conversations with other 
thesis-writing undergraduates, which will largely focus on complaining about your thesis since you’ll both be incapable of actually getting into detail about what it 
is you’re actually writing them on. But in the end, that 
doesn’t even matter, since the mere fact that you’re go-ing through similar experiences and have similarly in-ﬂ  ated egos will automatically bring you closer together. 
Finally, once you wade through the countless drafts, 
bouts of procrastination, last-minute deadlines, thesau-rus searches and feelings of futility, you’ll read over what you’ve wrote and realize that you’re actually, truly proud. Then you’ll realize you’re graduating in three 
weeks and subsequently start on a whole new downward 
spiral (but that’s a topic for next week). 
Just like any other college experience, writing a the-
sis is really about pushing yourself outside your comfort zone and seeing if you can rise to the occasion. Some 
days will be better than others, and you’ll question your-
self at every point along the way. But in the end, it’ll serve as an ode to your four years spent dedicated to one academic pursuit, and that seems pretty meaningful 
to me.
Marisa Papenfuss is an overly nostalgic UF English 
senior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
The ﬂ  aws in Ben Shapiro’s 
criticism of rape culture
During Ben Shapiro’s speech on April 3, 
he criticized the term ‘rape culture’ as a slur 
against men. I was one of the “idiot protes-tors” at his event and speciﬁ  cally made my sign, which read “Stop Rape Culture,” for the talk. A sharp commentator who enlivens audiences with audacious statements on con-troversial issues, Shapiro tried to undermine the very real problem of sexual assault for college students, while blaming rape victims who do not report the crimes for helping to 
keep rapists out of jails. I address the prob-
lems with Shapiro’s claims, not only because they are potentially dangerous, but also to il-lustrate the often tenuous foundations of his fast “facts.”
Shapiro laments the lack of speciﬁ  city of 
the term rape culture. Though non-exhaus-tive, I understand rape culture to refer to en-vironments, which normalize sexual assault and coercion. This includes a societal entitle-ment to women, non-binary and trans folks’ bodies, pressure on men to “score,” automat-ic suspicion about sexual assault claims and assumptions that only promiscuous women or weak men get raped. 
When Shapiro calls for rapists to be cas-
trated or killed, he is suggesting that rape is infrequent. When he emphasizes the need for strong evidence, he suggests all rapes and sexual assaults (R&SAs from here on out) 
are violent and produce damning evidence. 
When he blames victims for not reporting 
their rapes, he assumes that all victims are believed and treated with respect and further, that all the true rapists are prosecuted and 
convicted. When he prioritizes the National 
Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) over 
other national or campus-level surveys, he purposefully makes a choice to favor statistics which de-emphasize rapes by incapacitation, 
when victims cannot consent. 
R&SAs are notoriously difﬁ  cult to measure 
using surveys — not everyone wishes to res-
urrect these sensitive experiences. Further, individuals have different personal opinions 
about what constitutes sexual crimes. Victims 
are also conditioned to think their R&SAs are 
their own fault and may not attribute criminal culpability to their aggressors. 
During his speech, Shapiro speciﬁ  cally 
criticized statistics from the 2007 Campus 
Sexual Assault Study, ignoring results from 
other important surveys. For instance, the 
CDC’s 2011 National Intimate Partner & Sex-ual Violence Survey (NISVS) shows that 19.3 percent of U.S. women have been raped dur-
ing their lifetime, while the 2015 AAU Climate 
Survey on Sexual Assault & Sexual Miscon-
duct ﬁ  nds that more than 20 percent of wom-en on college campuses surveyed experienced sexual assault and/or misconduct (AAU). UF 
participated in this survey, and about 275 fe-
male students (estimated using about 20 per-
cent of the approximately 1,374 UF females who responded) reported experiencing sexual assault with physical force or when they were 
incapacitated and could not give consent.
As someone trained in survey research, 
I acknowledge that both surveys may suffer 
from non-response bias (again, measuring R&SAs via surveys is notoriously difﬁ  cult). 
But the survey Shapiro cites broadly mea-
sures criminal victimization, and as acknowl-
edged by the NCVS authors and others, is likely to undercount R&SAs because some victims won’t classify such assaults as “crimi-nal activities.” 
I do not believe Ben Shapiro is evil or that 
all men commit rape. I congratulate him for acknowledging that men are also victims of sexual assault and that statistics likely under-report sexual assaults. While Shapiro sees 
problems with the left’s “hierarchy of vic-
timhood,” as he puts it, I rather emphasize 
that acknowledging one another’s struggles, including those experienced by white men, is necessary to come together as a nation. As 
for why sexual assaults are not reported to 
authorities, we need only to ask women who 
have tried, only to be made to relive their rapes over the course of the investigation, have their names and reputations smeared, 
face unsympathetic harassment, endure in-
tense scrutiny if there is a trial, and if they are 
lucky, watch as their assailant receives a light sentence for the sake of his future.  
Jennifer C. Boylan graduated from UF 
with a Ph.D. in political science in 2016 and 
currently works as a program ofﬁ  cer within 
the Center for African Studies.8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHONBy David Hoffman              
and Jimena T avel
Alligator Writers
As droves of Jewish students 
and locals alike gathered for Pass-
over in Gainesville on Monday 
night, the holiday meant something 
different for each.
For Jayna Goldstein, it represents 
a sense of community. The 20-year-
old UF nutrition junior attended the 
annual Lubavitch Chabad Jewish 
Center Passover seder. She has at-tended since freshman year. 
The seder is a ritual dinner 
marking the ﬁ  rst night of the holi-day. Tables included food like mat-zo, a hard boiled egg and saltwater — all ingredients telling the story of 
the Israelites’ liberation from slav-
ery in Egypt.
While Goldstein misses spend-
ing the seder with her family back home in West Palm Beach, she en-joys the Chabad celebration, too. About 600 people attended Mon-day, and about 300 to 400 are ex-pected for the second seder today. 
“It’s a home away from home,” 
she said. 
At Chabad, Gabriel Ruiz sat with 
his six children, ranging from ages 6 to 14, and his wife at a round table 
with matzo and a seder plate. For 
the next eight days, Jews around 
the world will refrain from eating 
ﬂ  our and other grains in memory of when their ancestors couldn’t 
wait for bread to rise when leaving 
Egypt in a rush. 
Ruiz, a UF Health Shands Hos-
pital information technology ana-
lyst, said he was glad he came to 
Chabad for the ﬁ  rst time this year. 
“I just wish we got here earlier,” 
Ruiz said. 
Chabad began preparations for the holiday more than two months 
ago, ordering about 310 pounds of matzo from Israel, said Rabbi Berl Goldman, a director of the center. 
His wife, Chanie Goldman, co-
director of the center, prepared her 
special matbucha salsa. To pay for 
the Passover services and meals, 
Chabad raised $61,182 in dona-tions. Their goal was $76,000. 
Rabbi Goldman said the holiday 
is about overcoming struggle and 
adversity in life, no matter what 
your faith is.
“We need to know everything is 
possible, and Passover teaches us that,” he said.
Five blocks away from Chabad, 
about another 350 people also en-
joyed the ﬁ  rst night of Passover at 
UF Hillel. 
Rabbi Adam Grossman said the 
event was livestreamed on Face-book, where nearly 600 additional people watched. Grossman said the 
organization aimed to raise about $10,080 to serve 300 dinners, with each meal costing $36 to create. Both organizations’ dinners were 
free to students and community 
members.
“For us, there is no price tag for 
celebrating a holiday,” Grossman 
said.
Jeffrey Zimmerman, a UF phys-
ics and economics junior, said this 
was his ﬁ  rst year spending Pass-
over away from his family. The 21-year-old said he couldn’t go 
home to Pompano Beach because 
of schoolwork. 
“It would deﬁ  nitely be easier if 
it was a holiday at UF,” he said. “I 
just don’t think there are enough 
Jews here for that.” 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  Hundreds gather to celebrate Passover at Chabad, Hillel
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Rabbi Berl Goldman, a director of the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center, speaks to 
about 600 people before ofﬁ  cially starting Passover at about 8 p.m. on Monday. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
A seder plate sits on a table just before Passover begins. Each ingredient on the plate represents a different part of the story of how the Israelites were liberated from slavery in Egypt thousands of years ago, said Gabriel Ruiz, a UF Health Shands Hospital information technology analyst.
CHABAD PASSOVER 
BY THE NUMBERS
Matzo: 310 pounds
Wine:  45 cases
Grape Juice:  35 cases
Haggadahs (Passover 
seder text): 500 books
Seder meals:  800
Source: JewishGator.comTUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Courtney Moberley
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF student organization with ﬁ  ve world-
championship wins in robotics is hosting a 
seminar Wednesday. 
Erick Schwartz is the director of the Ma-
chine Intelligence Laboratory, which hosted 
a group of students who built the NaviGa-
tor AMS, a robotic boat which won a world championship in December. The free seminar, on Wednesday at 5:10 p.m. in the New Engi-neering Building, Room 100, will teach people about the NaviGator boat and UF’s robotics programs. 
“To us, robot means an intelligent mobile 
system that can solve a particular problem,” 
Schwartz, 57, said. “All of ours are autono-
mous, so they control themselves. They have computers, and they react to sensory things in the world.”
Students with the laboratory have won ﬁ  ve 
different world championships with robots they’ve built, he said. The NaviGator AMS competed against teams from 14 universi-
ties across ﬁ  ve different countries to win the 
world championship in the Maritime RobotX Challenge in Hawaii.
“If you’ve ever seen American Ninja War-
rior, it’s kind of like that sort of thing for ro-bots,” Schwartz said, referencing the TV show where people run through rigorous obstacle courses for a cash prize.
Ahad Virani, a 19-year-old UF computer 
science sophomore, said he would consider attending the seminar. 
“It sounds like an interesting program, 
and the members seem to know what they’re doing based on the fact that they’re national champions,” he said. By Cooper Fulcher
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nick Simmons will get the chance to see 
a comedian who helped him come to terms with his bipolar disorder at the Reitz Union on Wednesday.
The Reitz Union Board Entertainment an-
nounced March 28 that it’s bringing Chris Gethard, who has made guest appearances on “Conan,” “The Ofﬁ  ce” and “Parks and Recre-ation,” to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to perform stand-up comedy at 6 p.m. Wednes-day. The show is free for students with a valid Gator 1 Card, and attendees can bring up to one guest, said Michele Kuhn, the RUB Enter-tainment Speakers and Comedians Committee 
co-director. 
Tickets aren’t needed, and Gethard will be 
paid $10,000, Kuhn said. Simmons, a 23-year-old 
UF English and philosophy 
major, said he stumbled across Gethard’s work 
when studying comedians 
to improve his own sets 
with Theater Strike Force, a UF student improvisational comedy organization.
Gethard talks about liv-
ing with bipolar disorder, so Simmons sees the comedian as an inspiration, he said.
“He’s a lot about making people feel com-
fortable with themselves,” he said.
Kuhn, a 20-year-old English junior, said 
she hopes the show gives students a respite from the stress of end-of-term exams.
“I think it’s a great chance for students to 
take a break from studying for ﬁ  nals and be entertained,” she said. UF championship  robotics 
team to talk tech at seminar Chris Gethard to perform 
stand-up comedy at Reitz 
Gethard
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF
● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-12-17-10-2
1BR/1BA condo, walking to UF/Shands, cov-ered parking, washer/dryer, AC, dishwasher, refrigerator, oven/range, microwave, $775/m (includes high speed internet), July 1st, 352-871-2871.      4-11-17-5-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, 
hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/
month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    
4-18-17-7-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4
Designated drivers are the greatestSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14
Bilingual paralegal for Immigration Law 
firm, part-time. 10 - 15 hrs per week. Will train. Must be fluent in Spanish and English. Please email resume to rjjimmigration@
gmail.com.      4-13-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-1512 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Designated drivers are the greatest
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Prefix with deed,
feed and read
4 Fave texting buds
8 One looking for
something
14 Gorilla, for one
15 To whom Rick
said, “We’ll
always haveParis”
16 Mode of dress17 *Pay for your
online
purchases, say
19 Admirers, as a
group
20 Actress
O’Donnell
21 Caspian, e.g.
23 Nick and Nora’s
dog
24 Ancients, for
instance?
27 Big Band __29 White wine
apéritif
30 Kitten cries
31 *Skip work
because of
illness
34 Double curve
35 One to say
“G’day” to
36 Grandmas
37 *Cause a ruckus
40 Once more43 Deal with it44 “How cute!” cries47 *Go out of
business
50 Coin named for a
continent
51 ER staffers
52 Frying __53 Movie double
55 Sport shirt brand
57 Male cat59 Santa __
racetrack
60 Tenor Enrico62 “Care to wager?”
... and a questionanswered, oneway or the other,by the first wordsof the answers tostarred clues
65 Tennis great
Andre
66 Gung-ho
67 __ Fáil: Irish
coronation stone
68 Port on the Loire69 Dickens’ Uriah70 Junior nav. officerDOWN
1 Knot-tying art2 Siri speaks on
them
3 Up-and-down
playgroundboards
4 Hog rider5 Perky
spokeswoman inProgressive ads
6 Seminoles’ sch.
7 Pre-coll. exams
8 Jungle adventure9 Approx.
touchdown hour
10 Italian volcano11 Glove leather12 Racy literature13 Comments
18 Smokes, briefly
22 Slippery as an __25 Berry rich in
antioxidants
26 Wrestling
surfaces
28 Broadway
orphan
32 Parasite33 __ Andreas Fault35 “Don’t be a
wimp!”
37 Unburdened (of)38 Lovey-dovey
exchange39 Date bk. entry
40 Like some violets
41 Spokane school
with a strong
basketballprogram
42 Beaten candidate44 Loud enough to
hear
45 Unlisted 
vote-getter
46 Piano works48 Regional dialect49 __-Caps: candy50 Sicilian resort city54 Food retailer
named for two
oceans
56 Clean with Pledge
58 [Air kiss]
61 Opposite of NNW
63 Prop. often
named for a statein Monopoly
64 Nietzsche’s
“never”
By Lila Cherry©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/11/1704/11/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 11, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
 19 Connections 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Pair of UF gymnasts honored by President Fuchs 
Florida gymnasts Claire Boyce and Grace McLaughlin were honored with 
UF Presidential Service Awards on Tuesday. Both participated in the Florida 
Diabetes Camp over the summer, among other community-focused activi-
ties. Former Gator Bradley Beal 
is having a career season for the Washington Wizards. Read about Beal and the rest of the Gators in the NBA, pg. 15.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer 
There’s a disturbing trend happening to the 
Gators: too many one-run games. 
If you take a look at Florida’s last six games, 
it’s hard not to notice. 
Though UF swept Missouri on the road, 
nothing came easy with scores of 4-3, 2-1 and 2-1. A similar pattern followed in a series loss to Tennessee over the weekend: a 6-7 loss, 2-3 loss and a 5-4 win. 
In a game of inches, where milliseconds can 
dictate an outcome, Florida is leaving too many of its games to chance. It could be why the team has already matched last year’s mark of 11 regu-
lar-season losses in 23 fewer games. 
Chew on the numbers if you think otherwise. 
The Gators have played 18 one-run games, 
more than half of their 32 games to this point. 
UF owns an 11-7 record in said games, which 
means seven of the team’s 11 losses have come 
by just a run. 
Then consider this: Florida played in less 
one-run games in all of last season (17) and 
2015 (16). The last time it had more than 18 
of these close games in a season? 2014, when 
top-seeded UF was bounced from its own NCAA 
Regional by the College of Charleston and North Carolina. 
All of this with 23 games left in the regular 
season — and, potentially, postseason play — has forced UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan to take notice. 
“Let’s face it,” O’Sullivan said. “We’re 6-6 
in the league, four of our six losses are by one run. We just don’t have a lot of margin for error. Florida doesn't have a 'margin for error' 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Michael Byrne pitches during Florida's loss to T ennessee on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION 
We don’t know anything.
That’s what I think. And that 
was my biggest takeaway af-
ter watching the Florida football team’s annual Spring scrimmage 
— a gloriﬁ  ed practice played in The Swamp and televised on SEC Network meant to satiate fans and provide a valuable stadium experi-ence for UF’s players during the offseason — on Friday.
Those two groups may have been the only  
parties the scrimmage was valuable for.
As for us, the analysts charged with break-
ing down the game in some meaningful way, 
pretending like we know how well Florida’s 
safeties will fare in the regular season by watching them scrimmage against their own team in April, honestly, felt like a farce. All of it.
The main storyline heading into Friday’s 
scrimmage was the quarterback competition. Feleipe Franks vs. Kyle Trask. Who would pull away in the race to become UF’s next starter? Who would blow their chance and end the Spring a few steps behind the other?
When it was over, the media 
and the fans rained judgement 
down upon the two freshmen: 
Franks completed eight of his 14 passes for 119 yards and one touchdown, so he was the better quarterback (even though he was pitted against Florida’s defensive backups for most of the game). Trask completed six of his 15 passes for 66 yards, one interception and no touchdowns, 
so he was the lesser quarterback (even though 
he competed against the starters for most of his snaps).
And on it continued for the rest of UF’s 
position groups.
But, in many ways, an exercise like Fri-
day’s was probably extremely useful for the Florida football team. It simulated a game-like atmosphere (despite playing in front of an an-nounced crowd of 48,000, about half the amount that usually at-tends a regular-season home game) and gave the team a ﬁ  nal dress rehearsal, an end-goal to 
look forward to, four quarters 
to show off what they had been practicing and working toward all Spring.
It must have been extremely 
valuable for the coaches as well. After Friday, they got a game's 
worth of ﬁ  lm to evaluate their players, correct some issues that need ﬁ  xing, and it's a great 
learning experience to ﬁ  gure out how to best 
coach their players in an actual game.
My dilemma? The rest of us don’t know what we’re 
talking about.
Unless you spent your Saturday afternoon 
meticulously breaking down each snap, taking notes on the quarterbacks’ throwing mechan-ics or the defensive linemen’s gap techniques or the linebackers’ play recognition, it’s in-credibly difﬁ  cult to fully understand what we watched.
I think football is a complicated sport, 
much more so than viewers give it credit for. 
If my boss asked me to evaluate how Flor-
ida’s left guard played on Friday, what mis-takes he made, why he made them and how Florida should ﬁ  x it moving forward, I would kindly give him a bewildered stare in return, along with my resignation letter. 
So, yes, it may be easy to rush to snap 
judgments on some of the more prominent position groups. Franks looked like the 
starting quarterback. Jordan Scarlett, just like 
last season, looked like the starting running back. And Eddy Pineiro will deﬁ  nitely be the starting kicker.
But I’ll reserve judgement on most of the 
other players until I see them play in an actual game against actual competition with actual stakes.
You should, too. 
 Don’t rush to judgement based on an inconsequential Spring scrimmage 
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbBy Cassie Amundson 
Sports Writer 
In the top of the ﬁ  fth inning, sophomore Kelly 
Barnhill zoomed a ball toward home plate.
Georgia’s Jordan Doggett fell for the pitch, 
swinging and missing for a strikeout.
The crowd at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
erupted into cheers. Barnhill had just struck out her fourth straight Bulldog and 10th in total.
The Marietta, Georgia, native pitched the entire 
game, striking out 14 and allowing a pair of hits.
“I was really feeling good tonight,” Barnhill 
said. “I was able to move my rise ball on all three 
plains, and when I’m able to do that, it’s always 
a good game.”
The dominance from Barnhill and the rest of 
the Gators defense allowed the team to remain in the lead for the entire game, as Florida complet-ed its sweep of the Georgia Bulldogs on Monday night, 3-0.
“If you got the opportunity to sweep somebody, 
you got to take full advantage in this league,” 
coach Tim Walton said. “It’s a tough thing to do.” 
With tough defense on both sides (Florida was 
only able to convert four hits) most of the action 
was seen in the third inning.
In the then-scoreless game, Georgia was 
the ﬁ  rst to threaten when Florida catcher Janell 
Wheaton threw toward second base but failed to 
get the ball there in time. Georgia had stolen a base and had placed a runner in scoring position. 
On the very next hit, however, a line drive Barnhill shines 
in UF softball's win  over UGA
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 1614   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Alicia Boren competes in the NCAA Regionals in Gainesville on April 1.
THIS WEEK IN 
UF SPORTS
T oday:  
Baseball @ Florida State, 6 p.m., ACC Network Extra
Wednesday:  
Lacrosse  vs. Villanova, 1 p.m.
Softbal l vs. Florida State, 7 p.m., SEC Network  
Thursday: 
Baseball  @ Vanderbilt, 9 p.m., ESPNU  
Friday: 
Baseball @ Vanderbilt, 7:30 p.m., SEC Network+
Gymnastics @ NCAA Championships, 8 p.m., ESPNU
Men's tennis vs. Mississippi State, 5 p.m. 
Women's tennis @ Kentucky, 6 p.m.
Softball @ Kentucky, 6 p.m., SEC Network+
Saturday: 
Lacrosse  @ Butler, noon
Baseball  @ Vanderbilt, 3 p.m., ESPN2
Gymnastics  @ NCAA Super Six, 9 p.m., ESPNU
Track and ﬁ  eld @ Horned Frog Invitational Softball  @ Kentucky, 3 p.m., SEC Network+
Sunday: 
Women's tennis @ Vanderbilt, noon 
Softball  @ Kentucky, 1 p.m., SEC Network+
Men's T ennis  vs. Auburn, 1 p.m.TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
We’re going to have to do the little things 
right.”
The “little things” include executing hit-
and-runs, smart base running, situational hitting and playing sound defense. 
Because at this point in the season, 
O’Sullivan has an idea of who his team is. 
The Gators aren’t gonna win by swing-
ing for the fence or battering teams to death at the plate. They sit near the cellar in just about every offensive category in the SEC.
Where they excel, however, is in pitch-
ing and defense. UF leads the SEC in field-ing percentage (.980) and ranks third in ERA (2.98). 
One reason that might account for all the 
nail-biters this season is the inconsistent bullpen. 
Relievers Andrew Baker, Kirby McMul-
len and Frank Rubio — who have combined for 28.2 innings of relief — have had their share of ups and downs. They each have ERAs north of 5.00. A bright spot out of the ‘pen, however, 
has been sophomore Michael Byrne, a play-er O’Sullivan has called a “life saver.” He owns a 2.37 ERA and leads the team with five saves. 
Yet there’s still no real closer like 
there was last year with Shaun Anderson. Freshman Tyler Dyson certainly has the stuff to become that, but he hasn’t gained O’Sullivan’s full trust quite yet. 
Maybe it’s why O’Sullivan is giving the 
ball to him tonight against Florida State in Tallahassee, which will mark his first ca-reer start. UF’s head coach said he’ll use the game as an opportunity to get many of his pitchers some work. 
“We haven’t used him in a while,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We’ll get [Dyson] out there, and we’ve got a bunch of guys that need to get out there and give us one inning apiece.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg13Freshman Tyler Dyson will start tonight against Florida State
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kevin O'Sullivan speaks with an umpire during Florida's win over LSU on March 24 at McKethan Stadium. 
GATORS IN THE NBA
By Andrew Huang 
Sports Writer
A change in scenery has done 
wonders for some of the former Gators in the NBA this year. For oth-ers, it has done the exact opposite.
And for the one player on this list 
who didn’t suit up for a new team this season — Wizards guard Brad-ley Beal — staying put has led to a career-high 23 points per game.  
Arguably the best current player 
out of Gainesville, the 6-foot-5 Beal has helped lead Washington to the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference.
Centers shining, suspended:
Center Al Horford has been a 
solid addition to the second-seeded 
Celtics, averaging a career-best five assists per game in his first season 
away from Atlanta. With Horford 
in the lineup, Boston has increased 
its win total for the third straight year as it contends for the Eastern Conference title.
The same can’t be said for his for-
mer Florida teammate Joakim Noah, who received a 20-game suspension for using banned over-the-counter supplements. The suspension will be 
split between the final eight games 
of the 2016-2017 season and the first 
12 of 2017-2018. 
Small forwards hope to make 
it big:
Another former Gator to struggle 
this season is small forward Chan-dler Parsons, who is in his first sea-son with Memphis after spending two years in Dallas. After showing flashes of elite offensive ability in Houston, Parsons has failed to live up the hype during his time in Dal-las and Memphis. Lingering knee issues have limited his minutes and production since signing with the Grizzlies, leading to season-ending surgery for the forward.Rookie Dorian Finney-Smith is 
the only Gator in the NBA who has played for UF coach Mike White. Finney-Smith plays the same posi-tion as Parsons and comes off the bench for about 20 minutes a night. It’s conceivable that Finney-Smith could eventually take over Parsons’ versatile role for the Mavericks, al-though it can be hard to predict with only a one-season sample size.
Vets giving playoff teams a 
boost:
Veteran big men David Lee and 
Marreese Speights have both been good pickups for a couple of con-tenders in the loaded Western Con-ference. Lee has provided experience off the bench for the second-seed Spurs, who have a better record than every team but the Warriors. Mean-while, Speights has helped bolster a Clippers second unit that has kept the team alive as it dealt with inju-ries to stars Blake Griffin and Chris 
Paul. If either team wants to make 
it through the Western Conference 
during the playoffs, depth found in 
players like Lee and Speights will be 
crucial. 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgBeal leading Wizards, veterans bolstering playoff teams
The Associated Press
Washington's Bradley Beal lays up a shot during his team's game against the Golden State Warriors on April 2, 2017, in Oakland.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2017
to center ﬁ  eld forced senior Jus-
tine McLean to make a long throw to home plate. This time, the ball reached Wheaton just in time to get the out.
The crowd went wild, and it was 
the only time Georgia posed a threat during the game.
“(McLean) showed off her 
arm and her athleticism and her accuracy,” Walton said. “It was one of the best throws she’s made since she’s been here.”
Florida then generated some of-
fense of its own in the bottom of the inning. Junior Kayli Kvistad connect-
ed on a ball to right ﬁ  eld for a two-
run homer — her ﬁ  fth of the season — to put the Gators on top. It was her ﬁ  rst hit of the series. 
“The pitchers really mixed the 
pitches well, so coming out here and getting that 2-0 up on Georgia was really exciting,” Kvistad said.  
Chelsea Herndon tacked on one 
more run for Florida with a solo home run to right-center ﬁ  eld in the sixth inning.
No. 3 Florida (37-2, 13-1 SEC) 
will look to maintain its toughness on defense when it faces in-state ri-val Florida State on Wednesday eve-ning. The Seminoles, sitting at No. 1 in the nation, last played the Gators in 2016. It was Florida that clinched a 1-0 victory.  Wednesday’s game is set to start 
at 7 p.m.
“What I think we’re playing 
against Wednesday night and the at-mosphere that’ll we’ll have here at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium will make it a fun week for sure,” Walton said.
“At least a fun Wednesday.” 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org 
SOFTBALL,  from pg13Florida plays No. 1 Florida State on W ednesday in Gainesville 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill pitches during Florida's win over Georgia on Saturday. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kayli Kvistad hits during Florida's win over Bethune-Cookman on 
March 29 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
