Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 14
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  90° LOW  68°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
‘Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating: 
100 Years @FloridaMuseum’ 
exhibit now openThe Florida Museum of Natural History marks its 100th anni-
versary as the state’s official 
natural history museum with a free exhibit highlighting ob-
jects from its collections. The 
“Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating” exhibit showcases some of the 
museum’s most treasured ob-jects and features scientists in a working lab, extinct species, a 26-foot-long humpback whale skeleton and a 3-D printer in ac-tion. Visitors will also be able to use their mobile devices and ear buds for an audio tour to hear scientists discussing inter-
esting stories about the objects 
and participate in a scavenger hunt, using riddles as clues to find museum objects. The ex-hibit will be open from now to Jan. 7. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/exhibits/100-years.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings 
are free to attend and open to 
the public. For more informa-
tion, visit talkinggators.toast-
mastersclubs.org/.
English and citizenship classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s 
education and civic program of-fers free English and citizenship 
classes at the Alachua County 
Library District Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. English classes will be Tuesday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14, and citizenship classes will be Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more information or to 
register, visit latinawomens-
league.org or email info@lati-nawomensleaguer.org. 
Tango classes
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned dancer, everyone is welcome. 
No experience, partner or spe-
cial shoes are required. Just bring a thick pair of socks. Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., fol-lowed by advanced-level les-
sons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are 
held at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. For more information, visit the UF Argentine Tango Club Facebook page.
Hispanic Heritage Month: Fiesta 
Fiesta is one of the seven in-ternal programming events 
during UF Hispanic Heritage 
Month. This social event will feature a Spanish music festival experience. The theme is Vida en Color, which means Life in 
Color. With food, giveaways 
and a great outdoor vibe, all 
individuals can enjoy and learn 
about the Hispanic culture. Fiesta will be held on Flavet 
Field on Friday at 7 p.m.
ReptiDay Gainesville reptile 
and exotic animal show
ReptiDay Gainesville is a 
one-day reptile-themed event 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. with vendors offering reptile pets, supplies, feeders, cages and merchandise as well as live-animal seminars and fre-quent free raffles for prizes. 
The event will be held at the 
Wyndham Garden Gainesville, located at 2900 SW 13th St. General admission tickets are $10 for adults and $5 for chil-dren ages 5 to 12.
The UN Day Celebration: ‘My 
World, Your World Our World’
The Gainesville chapter of the 
U.N. Association is celebrating U.N. Day on Oct. 5 from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the Gainesville Women’s Club Inc., located at 2809 W. University Ave. The event includes a panel discus-sion, recognition of local model U.N. clubs, a musical perfor-
mance by “Earthman” Lanny 
Smith and a keynote speech from Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. Reservations must be made online by Friday, and a boxed lunch will be served for $17. 
Celebrate the Florida Museum’s 
12th annual ButterflyFest
Explore the lives of bats, bees, 
birds and butterflies during this Fall’s ButterflyFest on Oct. 8 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Learn about butterfly gardening, na-
tive pollinators, conservation, 
backyard wildlife and more. Experience butterfly releases and come dressed in your fa-vorite pollinator attire for the pollinator parade. Enjoy the 
ButterflyFest plant sale Oct. 6 
to Oct. 8, one of the museum’s largest sales of the year with more than 150 species avail-able, including edible, accent, 
host, native and nectar plants. 
Food and merchandise vendors will be on-site.  For more infor-mation, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/butterflyfest. 
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21
The David and Wanda Brown 
Center for Leadership & Service 
is holding a Fall Day of Service 
on Oct. 21. Join several hun-
dred volunteers for a day of re-
flection and service for a wide variety of nonprofits, including 
Keep Alachua County Beautiful, 
Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile 
Homestead, NATL (Natural 
Area Teaching Lab), Wilmot 
Gardens, The Repurpose 
Project, Operation Catnip and 
more. For more information, call 352-392-1215, email cls@leadershipandservice.ufl.edu or visit bit.ly/daysofservice. 
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsDo you make cool stuff? Gainesville’s largest indie craft show is looking for artists and crafters who make unique, gift-able goods for the upcoming Dec. 3 holiday shopping event at First Magnitude Brewing Company. Apply online by Nov. 1 at glamcraftshow.com/
apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Faculty Member from the  
UF College of Journalism and Communications 
and
Student Member at Large
(unpaid members of the Board of Directors)
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 6.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, October 
9 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on October 26 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the openings of the following:
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we believe in providing the 
best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, 
as demonstrated by our 5 year salary structure (Year 2 - $90k,  
Year 3 - $95k, Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - 
Starting  
at $80KFully 
Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-
Winning 
TrainingCareer  
AdvancementLawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
FOOSBALL FUN
A group of people play human foosball at Gainesville Games 2017 at Depot Park, located at 200 SE 
Depot Ave., on Sunday. Aside from human foosball, the event also had games such as “Hungry, Hungry Humans” and a giant ring toss.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
To celebrate UF becoming a 
top-10 public university, UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs is hosting a trivia 
contest on Twitter.
From Saturday until today, 
Fuchs will tweet quotes from dif-
ferent UF presidents about uni-
versity rankings. Every student 
will get one chance to answer the trivia questions correctly, said UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando. 
The winner will receive two 
tickets to the Nov. 18 football game 
against the University of Alabama at Birmingham in the President’s 
Box. 
To win, students need to give 
the name of each UF president who 
said the quotes Fuchs tweets and the year of their inaugural address. 
The ﬁ  rst student to come to Fuchs’ 
ofﬁ  ce with his or her Gator 1 Card and the correct answers will win, Orlando said.
“Getting into the top 10 has 
been a goal of UF for a long time, 
even before there were U.S. News rankings,” Orlando said.
There is no monetary value for 
the tickets because they can’t be 
bought by the public, Orlando said.
Amelia Angeliadis, a UF health 
science senior, learned about the 
contest when her dad tagged her 
on Fuchs’ Facebook post. The 
21-year-old and her dad have been 
going to Gator games since she was 
8 years old.
“It makes me excited that he 
was excited to go to games because 
I like spending time with him, and 
it’s just like nice of President Fuchs 
to offer those privileges to stu-
dents,” she said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgFuchs to host trivia, 
award football ticketsTrivia Contest4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
Impact Party and Inspire Party: Platform breakdown
 Voting is from 8:30 a.m. Tuesday to 8:30 p.m. W ednesday 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer 
In the most competitive election cycle 
since Fall 2015, 50 Student Senate seats are 
up for grabs.
Voting for the upcoming Student Govern-
ment elections is scheduled from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday. 
The Student Body will vote according to 
UF residence halls and off-campus zip codes.
Students can vote in various on-campus locations, including Broward Hall library; Jennings Hall first floor library; Marston Sci-ence Library, Main Room; Norman Hall Edu-
cation Library, the Reitz Union computer lab 
and more. 
Two SG parties registered this semester: 
Impact Party, which has 50 candidates on its ballot, and Inspire Party, which has 41 
candidates on its ballot. Inspire released a 
14-point platform Wednesday, while Impact 
released a 10-point platform Thursday. Two 
Independent candidates — Trevison Clark, who’s running for Murphree Area, and Adri-an O’Sullivan, who’s running for Yulee Area — also registered.
Out of the 50 seats available, 43 are con-
tested by at least two candidates. This is the 
first time SG elections have been this con-
tested since Fall 2015, when Access Party and Impact Party went head-to-head over 47 
seats, according to Alligator archives.
Inspire Party will hold a moderated public 
forum from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. today at the Pugh 
Hall Ocora. Inspire and the two independent senators will participate in the event. Impact Party will not participate because its sched-ule is busy after it was cramped by Hurricane 
Irma, said Kylie Werk, one of the campaign 
managers.
The Alligator spoke with one of Impact 
Party’s campaign managers Kylie Werk and Inspire Party’s president Ben Lima. The fol-
lowing is a breakdown of their party’s plat-
forms. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
Online voting
• Create online voting system for all UF students
• Use GatorLink account to avoid hacking 
• Help online, off-campus students have a voice
OVERLAPFeminine products, 
condoms 
• Expand number of locations where condoms are offered
• Add condom availability in Library West, East Campus and near bus stops
• Redistribute money from elec-tions, saved with online voting, to get feminine products
Accessibility
• Add captions to all videos pro-duced by SG 
• Get ASL translators for events SG holds Graduate fees
• Use SG’s about $80,000 budget line meant for lobbying
• Go to T allahassee to advocate for graduate students, lower fees
• Increase transparency for 
graduate student fees
Transparency
• Make SG website easier to 
navigate
• Create portal with important information 
• Cut back on unnecessary spending 
Office hours
• Require all senators to hold office hours, not just Senate leadership positions
• Make representatives easily available to students who want to voice concernsHealthy food
• Work to modify contract with Aramark to bring healthier vendors
• Work with vendors to get more healthier menu option
Civic engagement
• Make sure there are early vot-ing locations on campus
• Make Chomp Your Vote more active to provide voting infor-mation
• Provide transportation to polls on election daysMore parking
• Collaborate with the student transporta-tion office to try to expand 
• Pass resolution to expand parking
Student involvement in 
multicultural affairs
• Ensure students have a voice in Multicultural and Diversity Affairs
• Put students in advisory committees so their voices are being heard
• Make sure Student Senate is listening to the issuesClub funding
• Provide in-person workshops so people understand how to get funding
• Publicize the process through social media
Sexual assault 
awareness
• Examine campus statistics and invest in preven-tative solutions
• Support campaigns like It’s On Us, continue partnerships
• Bring back sexual assault awareness week
• Hold classes and workshops 
Off-campus housing 
• Develop a system like Rate My Professors for off-campus apartments and landlords
• Have current residents review different apartment complexes
• Reviews about safety, noise, general atmosphereUF music festival
• Held in Spring to avoid conflict with Gator GrowlRental system for academic products
• Create rental system for different products, like chemistry lab goggles and calculators
• Let students use products without paying for them
• Have students donate items to contribute
Veteran-specific services
• Advising for veterans to help with G.I. Bill issues
• Create a veterans memorial 
• Make available advisors specifically trained in the program
Student Government 
printing expansion
• Expand free printing to Library West, Marston Science Library and Newell Hall
• Look at budget to see where money can be pulled to expand locations
100 percent Florida Bright 
Futures Scholarship
• Lobby for Academic, Medallion scholarships to be 100 percent covered 
• Meet with Florida State Senate President Joe Negron
• Show data about how many students would benefit 
Textbook fair
• Hold a new and used book fair
• Host an event where students can bring a book and look at other donationsMidterm faculty evaluations
• Get student opinions midway through term so faculty can adjust teaching 
• Use anonymous submissions so students aren’t afraid to voice their concerns
• Add questions about mental health so professors know about students’ stress levels
24/7 libraries
More counselors for 
the Counselling & 
Wellness CenterMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE STATION COST $2.9 
MILLION TO BUILD.
By Maria Dominguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s newest ﬁ  re sta-
tion, the Alachua County Fire 
Rescue Station 33, located at 
5901 NW 34th Blvd., opened 
near Northside Park on Friday morning.
County Commissioner Ken 
Cornell cut the ribbon at about 10 a.m. and told the roughly 30 people in attendance the station would provide the area with ac-cess to more ﬁ  rst responders.
“Your County Commission 
believes in public safety as a top priority, and this station shows that,” Cornell said.
The station, which is 7,754 
square feet, is equipped with 
one 24-hour ambulance and ﬁ  ve 
ambulances that operate at a 40-hour schedule, Cornell said. It took $2.9 million and a year to 
build.
An older station at that loca-
tion was closed more than a year 
ago to be replaced with a more efﬁ  cient station, said Harold 
Theus, the AFR deputy ﬁ  re chief. 
The original station, which was one of the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  re stations in Alachua County, was a home 
that was donated by a resident 
in the 1970s to the county, Theus said.Theus said this station is built 
to house emergency medical ser-vices, not ﬁ  re engines.
The station, which can with-
stand a Category 3 hurricane, has a large kitchen, showers, an ofﬁ  ce area and a TV-viewing area for rescuers, Theus said.
Cornell said the responders 
who started working at the sta-tion will be among those who save citizens from crisis.
“I’m proud to say that the 
Alachua County Fire Rescue do a wonderful job at keeping ﬁ  re stations and rescue stations in place, keeping our ﬁ  rst respond-
ers safe and most of all keeping 
our citizens safe, so for that I thank you,” Cornell said.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Jonathan Gold has worked for 
Midtown businesses for more than 
12 years. Now, he’s decided to launch his own bar.
JJ’s Tavern, a new college bar 
and pizzeria, opened Sept. 13 to offer drinks, pizza and a cozier atmosphere than Midtown is ac-customed to, Gold said. 
The tavern, located at 1702 W. 
University Ave., offers build-your-own pizzas, $4 for a personal size and $7 for a large, Gold said. Cus-tomers can munch on mozzarella 
sticks and corn nuggets while they 
watch one of the 15 TVs around the bar. The restaurant also has specials Thursdays and Sundays, such as $1 well drinks for ladies Thursdays and $3 triples Sundays. 
“I really feel like (the bar’s) 
more welcoming for the students to come over,” he said. “They know they’re going to have a good time.”
The bar opened where Copper 
Monkey used to be. Copper Mon-key closed in April, according to Alligator archives.
Although the bar is only about 
a week and a half old, it has al-ready become a staple for some students like Jordan Silver. 
The 21-year-old Santa Fe Col-
lege business administration ju-nior was one of the ﬁ  rst people inside. 
“It’s just a great, new place that 
I think Midtown needed,” he said.Replacement ﬁ  re station opens Pizzeria, bar opensDO-LISH, WOLFGANG, KABAB 
HOUSE AND OTHERS WILL CLOSE.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
The days of Grace Ryan prowling the 
racks of Wolfgang in search of the perfect romper for her friend’s 21st birthday are coming to a close.
On Saturday, the clothing boutique, lo-
cated at 1127 W. University Ave., will shut its doors for good.
“Wolfgang was, like, kind of special be-
cause it was small, and the customer ser-vice was great, and they had a lot of trendy clothes,” said the 19-year-old UF account-ing sophomore. “You can find something unique there.”
Wolfgang is not alone. All of the busi-
nesses from 1105 to 1131 W. University Ave. will be forced to close or relocate to 
accommodate Hub On Campus, a 411-bed, 
mixed-use student housing development, according to its website.
Some businesses along the strip, like 
Papa John’s Pizza and Class Cellular, are already an empty shell. Other places, like Kabab House and Wolfgang, are making the most of the time they have left.
Matthew Turner, the owner of Wolf-
gang, received notice in July that he would have to clear out the store by the end of September. It meant saying goodbye to a storefront that has housed his business for a decade.
“The company keeps trying to reassure 
us of how much they care about us and 
our livelihood, but to me that’s all smoke 
and mirrors,” he said.
Until it closes, Wolfgang is running 
sales in an attempt to get rid of everything the store has left. On Thursday, Turner will drive down from Atlanta to pack up whatever remains.
Turner doesn’t have any plans to relo-
cate Wolfgang in Gainesville. With rising 
rent prices and the looming threat of big businesses, it doesn’t seem like a worth-
while investment, he said.
The effects go beyond just the closing 
of Wolfgang and neighboring local busi-nesses, Turner said. He believes the clos-ing of stores near his is the beginning of 
a grim era in Gainesville with more cor-
porate-style establishments and less local businesses.
“I think it’s pretty tragic for the city,” 
he said. “I think that it signifies a change in Gainesville that is unnecessary and takes away from its character.”
@jessica_giles_  
jgiles@alligator.orgNew housing development forces out business on University Ave.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Public education is lacking empathy
Growing up, I always loved school. I 
loved my teachers, and I loved my 
friends; I loved putting my pencil case 
on top of the laminate desk, tearing pa-
per out of spiral notebooks abd ﬁ  ling 
my assignments away in pronged folders. It all just made sense to me. Now that I’m a senior 
in college, I’ve had to consider more seriously what school means to me. With nearly 17 years 
of public education under my belt, how will I 
use what I’ve learned?
Public education is still what makes sense to 
me. Now, I think about the strengths and weaknesses of 
our public education system, a system full of dedicated 
and determined teachers and staff yet ripe for improve-
ments, change and support. Currently, about 90 percent 
of American students attend public elementary and sec-
ondary schools rather than private schools. This amounts 
to 50.7 million students entering public elementary and 
secondary schools across the country this past semester.
With this many children and teenagers affected by pub-
lic education, we must seriously consider the knowledge and values we instill in each coming generation. Public 
schools don’t just introduce us to American history, alge-
braic expressions and science experiments. Our schools 
also attempt to teach us positive character traits as we grow up through the system. We are taught to speak hon-
estly and complete our assignments with integrity, to al-
ways try our best and to learn from our mistakes.
However, I believe our lessons lack one important trait 
we gloss over in our quest to be the best student and make 
the top grades: empathy. In an increasingly competitive 
academic and professional national culture, it can prove 
challenging to remain considerate and respectful. It’s a 
constant race to the top in which only a select few can 
ever win.
I believe we see the consequences of this mindset quite 
clearly in our public schools. A lack of compassion for 
our fellow human beings results in bullying, especially on social media, when children and teens fail to understand how their actions impact others. 
Further, when we don’t encourage students to 
practice mindfulness — to think before acting, 
to stay in the present instead of dwelling on the 
past or the future — we miss out on teaching 
kids effective, healthy coping mechanisms for 
stress, anxiety and feelings of negativity.
One summer while volunteering with a local 
educational program for elementary schoolers, I watched as each morning the lead instructor 
would put on a “Sesame Street” music video 
featuring the iconic trio of Elmo, Common and Colbie Cail-lat. The song, “Belly Breathe,” will forever be engrained in 
my memory. For one, it’s catchy and probably etched into 
my neurons at this point. But more importantly, the song 
focused on calming down in the face of anger or sadness. 
It taught children to take a few moments before reacting 
to breathe deeply. Essentially, it broke down a major ele-
ment of mindfulness into musical, bite-sized chunks for 
kids.
Watching the kids mimic the choreography of the vid-
eo, placing their palms on their stomachs as they inhaled and exhaled to the music, I was reminded of how use-
ful mindfulness techniques are in practicing empathy and 
compassion. Instead of immediately lashing out at some-one, pausing for a few deep breaths requires kids — and 
adults— to respect other people and deal with emotions in 
more constructive ways.
With so many children and teens entering public 
schools each year, we should take advantage of the enor-
mous opportunity we have to teach them the often-ne-
glected value of empathy. In the face of so much national 
division — including our political, social and economic 
differences — a little more empathy built into the next 
generation of leaders and scholars certainly couldn’t hurt.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Respect is earned, 
not given
One of the ﬁ  rst things you are taught in kindergarten is 
to treat others how you would like to be treated. Ap-parently, no one ever let our president in on the secret.
Recently, prominent NFL players have been putting 
the attention placed on them to good use and taking a 
stand against President Donald Trump — or rather, not taking a stand. They have been refusing to stand during the national anthem which is traditionally played before the start of major sporting events. Instead, players have been kneeling on the ﬁ  eld in order to show their disapproval of Trump’s behavior or to show their support for the Black Lives Matter movement.
As expected, Trump retaliated against the unspoken pro-
test in a way that was shameful and ignominious not only to our nation but to himself as well. He spent most of a rally in 
Huntsville, Alabama, on Friday night talking about the NFL. 
He began by complaining about how the penalties for hard hits are ruining the game of good ol’ American football. Before long, the president revealed his real reasoning for his sudden budding interest in football.
He told his constituents if they attend a sporting event 
where players refuse to stand during the national anthem they should leave the stadium, and team owners should ﬁ  re play-ers who choose to kneel in protest. The part of his speech that 
troubles us most was the way he relayed this information to 
the public.
 “Get that son of a b---- off the ﬁ  eld right now. Out. He’s 
ﬁ  red. He’s ﬁ  red!”
These were the words spoken by our commander in chief 
in reference to actual American citizens who he should be leading, governing and, most importantly, protecting. We found difﬁ  culty typing out his words even just to quote them.The fact that our president was able to speak them with such 
conﬁ  dence and lack of remorse is a disgrace.
Peaceful protests are not treason. In fact, the right to peace-
fully protest is part of what makes our country so great and 
unique. You’re allowed to stand up for what you believe in and stand up against what you don’t. The fact that Trump is shaming citizens for doing so is nothing less than despicable.
Trump took his sweet time before half-heartedly announc-
ing a public condemnation of the white supremacists and neo-Nazis who have been plaguing the streets of our nation in 
recent weeks. It took physical violence to entice Trump to 
speak negatively about these groups. But a silent protest? In his mind, this deserves degrading and hateful language to-ward the very people he should be protecting. Why was he not just as quick to speak out against groups who are actually endangering the lives of American people?
Our question for our president is this: How can you expect 
us to respect you when your public displays are similar to a toddler throwing a tantrum?
The cold, hard truth is our president is immature, slow-
witted and disrespectful. If he won’t show respect to his con-stituents, why should they show respect to him?
We can see where the president was coming from with 
his discontent for the peaceful protests. We can also see why many Americans encouraged him when he spoke out against the players’ acts. People saw it as an act against America as a whole, not against the president.
But Trump’s position is a title, not a right. His position does 
not guarantee him respect nor does it give him an allowance to treat other Americans with such a lack of respect. Respect is earned, not given. This is something our president needs to learn.
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the EditorColumn
ColumnMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Little Marco,” “Crooked Hillary,” 
“Lying Ted” and now “Rocket Man.” President Donald Trump 
distances himself from his op-
ponents using creative terms on 
a daily basis.  
These are all insults made up by Trump 
in an attempt to discredit his opponents  — but has it gone too far now that these insults have been brought on an international stage?
At his U.N. speech last week, Trump 
called North Korean leader Kim Jong-un 
“Rocket Man.” 
Kim’s response? Trump is a “Dotard” — a 
word which peaked in usage in the 1800s and 
has since been on a steady decline. According 
to a Google search, the term means “an old 
person, especially one who has become weak or senile.” 
Although Trump’s statements about for-
mer Secretary of State Hillary Clinton were 
often misogynistic or just untrue, at least 
there was no risk she would unleash a nucle-ar attack. The risk of these attacks was low, and the risk of attacking his own party was even lower. His state-ments may have gained him voters 
who wanted someone who wasn’t 
politically correct. In American society, there’s nothing Trump’s opponents could have done about 
this. 
When insulting a foreign leader 
who doesn’t have to respect Amer-
ican laws, the stakes are higher. In a dictator-ship like North Korea, military action could 
be decided simply by the leader’s feelings 
that day. North Korea has already launched a missile over Japan, and their weapons could easily reach Guam, an American territory. 
Rather than focusing on maintaining the dis-
tant relationship we have with North Korea,  Trump antagonized them, putting everyone at risk. 
The language of international affairs has 
been lowered to that of grade-school bullies in the way that Trump made American poli-tics childish during the 2016 election. What does this say about the U.S. that our president resorts to playground taunts to get his point across?
In the past, the U.S. has suc-
cessfully negotiated the trade of certain prisoners in North Korea. Despite the tense relationship be-
tween the U.S. and North Korea, 
the prestige of being visited by for-mer President Bill Clinton helped 
patch things up by giving Jong-un the legiti-macy he craved. 
In many ways, U.S. diplomacy with North 
Korea was all about playing their game. As long as the U.S. gave them some legitimacy, negotiations were possible. Who knows what 
would happen if a similar situation were to 
arise today?
The U.S. has always taken pride in the fact 
the American dream is something many as-pire to have. But this behavior on an interna-
tional stage might make people think the U.S. 
isn’t as welcoming as it lets on. 
Trump’s childlike rhetoric might put Americans and all other nations that fall within North Korea’s trajectory in danger.  
The insensitivity to global norms embar-
rasses the U.S., and it’s not as if Trump’s staff is completely behind him either. There’s an image of White House chief of staff John Kel-ly with his head in his hands during Trump’s 
U.N. speech. It speaks to the embarrassment 
even those in Trump’s inner circle feel. The U.S. doesn’t have to be friends with North Korea, but open taunts to a country that pos-sesses nuclear weapons probably aren’t wise 
either. 
The U.S. needs to step up and become the 
international leader it once was instead of re-
sorting to childish taunts. The international 
community, many of whom have already de-
nounced Trump, might soon leave the U.S. in the dust as it makes unwise decisions that will impact the world’s future. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. 
As a student at UF, you probably 
hear the word “involvement” tossed around a lot. Every day we 
are bombarded with emails, Face-
book event invitations and social 
media posts advertising opportunities for students to get involved.  
We are told without being involved, we 
are either missing out on the college ex-perience or not going to get a job. While I’ve found that I do agree with these as-sessments, I still have a lingering concern. 
Is it better to get involved for the sake of 
being involved, or should we only do it if it’s something we love? Dear reader, I’m here to argue the latter.
We’re told to do what we love from the 
time we are old enough to understand. When ﬁ  lling out college applications, we are told to pick a major we like, not just something that will look good on a resume 
or graduate school application. Some wide-
eyed freshmen heed this advice, while oth-ers scoff and pick the most logi-cal major for their desired career path regardless of whether they 
are actually interested in the ma-
jor itself. I did the second when I was a freshman, and it was a mistake. I don’t regret it, because 
it led me to where I am now, but 
if I were put in a time machine and put back in that moment, I probably would not make the same choice.
Field of study is discussed extensively 
by everyone, not just those who are in college with us. Something a little more speciﬁ  c to people actually in college is 
involvement. At the beginning of each se-
mester, we ﬁ  ll out applications, attend in-formational meetings and go to interviews, hoping the coveted organization we so des-perately wish to be a part of will accept 
us. We are fortunate at UF to have a wide 
variety of options available to us, from pro-fessional organizations to recre-ational sports teams. However, with this massive variety comes 
a lot of pressure. Which ones 
should we sign up or apply for? If we're fortunate enough to be selected for multiple, which ones 
should we choose? Of which ones 
should we try to become leaders? Whether quality or quantity is more important is very much a 
personal preference. How much you actu-
ally want to care about each is also a per-
sonal preference.
I’ve often heard passion compared to 
ﬁ  re. However, throughout my time at UF, 
I’ve noticed all too often that people’s im-
mense, undying passion and dedication for their organizations are more akin to a light switch than a ﬂ  ame. Rather than burning consistently, it can be ﬂ  ipped on and off. 
Once the meeting is adjourned or the event 
ends, you would never know the person was involved in it. When the polo, nam-etag or T-shirt is on, they eat, sleep and breathe it. But when the polo is gone so is 
the passion. Is this because the organiza-
tion or cause has served its purpose? Were they ever actually passionate in the ﬁ  rst place, or do they just paint on that face 
because they had to in order to get the po-
sition?
A resume makes you an employee, not 
a human being. Although your work expe-rience is certainly important, think about 
who you would be without it. When you 
get involved in something, don’t do it just because it looks good or employers like it. Do it because you like it. Do it because it 
is a part of who you are and who you want 
to be. And when that polo, nametag or T-shirt comes off, don’t let it take your pas-sion with it.
Taylor Cavaliere is a journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. Diplomacy has been lowered to the level of playground taunts
It's time to start getting involved in the things you care about
In the Sept. 18 issue of the Alligator, 
the article “Professional ‘midget wres-tling’ entertains Gainesville” informed 
readers about the Micro Champion-
ship Wrestling, or MCW, event held 
at High Dive on Sept. 14. Having members of the audience shout such profanities as 
“We Want Midgets” is not comical, not 
entertaining and not sportsmanlike, as the article stated. It is repulsive, demeaning and wrong. Roughly one in every 20,000 Americans are diagnosed with various 
forms of dwarﬁ  sm, meaning most will 
not reach a height of more than 4 feet 6 inches. The uniqueness that comes with being shorter than average results in high 
levels of curiosity. For many, the only 
connection they have with people of short stature is through shows and movies such as “The Wizard of Oz,” “Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory,” or more recently, “Game of Thrones.” While this slow evo-lution in the media has resulted in some acceptance that individuals of shorter 
heights are more than their deﬁ  ning char-
acteristics, events such as MCW reverse that trend. Stereotyping people and using them as entertainment for paying cus-
tomers should not be tolerated. Imagine 
if other individuals or groups were sub-jected to such treatment. Using the “M” word to describe people who are shorter than average is akin to using taboo slurs 
for African-Americans, women and other 
marginalized groups. Please avoid pro-moting and encouraging such events from occurring in this area. Shadowing stereo-
types as entertainment does not simply 
harm the group being made fun of, but the overall fabric of the community.
Colin Kearney is a UF student. Several months ago, a study pub-lished in a major scientific jour-nal, JAMA, found the brains of 
99 percent of former NFL play-
ers displayed evidence of chronic 
traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). Despite several limitations of the study, it appears 
there is some relation between playing 
American football and CTE. Other re-search has suggested CTE outcomes are worse for individuals who played tackle football at young ages. This is relevant 
because football is a part of UF culture — 
we expect good recruits, wins and bowl games. Young men are incentivized to play collegiate football with a “free” edu-
cation and the chance to hone their skills 
and play potentially at the professional level. An education is useless if you are being asked to possibly destroy your brain to earn it, and millions of dollars are worthless when you die too soon to enjoy them. So, what is our responsibility knowing the outcome of a game is more 
than a win or loss? A rough sport where 
individuals of lower social classes are represented disproportionately and enter into an arena to, quite literally, lose years 
of their lives. The description is as apt 
for a gladiator as a football player. The difference is the football player’s death is slow and inconspicuous. Are colleges doing enough to protect and compensate 
these individuals? Is our enjoyment justi-
fied when we watch young men, many of whom have been afforded little opportu-nity other than athletics to enhance their 
economic situation, slowly destroy their 
bodies? Doubtful. 
Kissel Goldman is a UF psychology 
graduate student.“
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org“I went from zero to 100,” she said. “I felt 
like, ‘Holy crap, I found it.’ My social anxiety 
vanished, I just felt good about myself.”
From there, the cycle continued through 
freshman and sophomore year. She quickly 
began to suffer from the disease of addiction, 
she said.
Though she denied it to herself at the time, 
deep down she feared she couldn’t stop. She saw herself missing class the morning after a night of being out and losing touch with old friends and family back home, she said.
She tried confronting herself in the Summer 
of 2015. With a tiny blue planner she bought to 
organize her thoughts and ambitions, she set 
her ﬁ  rst goal.
“Try to stop drinking for 30 days,” she 
wrote.
But it wasn’t enough, she said. She needed 
help.
Weeks later her parents gave her an ultima-
tum after she had a particularly bad episode drinking one night and set her up for treatment at the UF Health Florida Recovery Center, lo-cated at 4001 SW 13th St., where she stayed in rehab from July 2015 to January 2016, taking a 
break from her studies.
“The saying goes when you suffer, the 
whole family suffers,” she said. “I put them 
through the ringer.”
At UF, alcohol is the No. 1 substance stu-
dents are using, but that’s not necessarily re-ﬂ  ected at local recovery sites, said Larry Mc-
Gee, a drug counselor at UF Health Florida 
Recovery Center.
It’s rare for students to admit to an alcohol 
problem, said McGee, who had his own strug-gles with a cocaine addiction between 2002 and 2007. People usually confront problems with alcohol much later in life, after being set-tled in their careers and marriages, sometimes as late as 50 to 60 years old, he said.
“In a college town certainly, more kids 
are abusing alcohol than anything else, but it doesn’t reach a level yet unless they get in some kind of trouble that they are willing to get some kind of help,” McGee, 58, said. “You 
try telling a young kid or college student that 
they’re an alcoholic — they don’t believe it.”
About 1,825 college students die an alco-
hol-related death nationally each year, primar-ily due to alcohol poisoning and car accidents caused by driving under the inﬂ  uence, said Dr. Jamie Smolen, a UF associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry.
Smolen, a practitioner at the UF Health Re-
covery Center, said the real source of danger for students drinking isn’t even the alcohol itself, but rather the binge drinking many students will engage in. About two-thirds of nationally surveyed students who said they drank in the last month reported binge drinking, he said.
“For some college students that’s no big 
deal, that’s routine for them,” he said. “They don’t even consider that to be dangerous or 
harmful to their brain or ability to perform well 
as students.”
McGee said kids don’t respond well when 
you try to frighten them about drugs. They need role models close to their age to not only show them the right way but to show support when things go bad.
“The scare tactics don’t work with the 
kids,” he said. “You can be cool, you can have 
a lot of fun without the dangers that lie with 
these (drugs).”
Recovery wasn’t a straight shot for Kabat.
She cried seeing students pass between 
classes when she walked on campus for the 
ﬁ  rst time since she left rehab in January 2016. While life continued for the students around her, for Kabat, doubt engulfed her. Her rehab program had taught her to change her settings — the people, places and things around her. She felt she was abandoning her past life, the way she used to have fun at night, the people she used to hang out with.
On July 1, 2016, after being out of rehab for 
6 months, she relapsed.
It was that night when she ﬁ  nally came 
to terms with where her addiction could lead her, even in the span a few short hours. It was that night she said she knew for sure, even af-ter rehab, if she had a drink in her hand, she wasn’t in control. She said she’d never forget that date.
“That was the catalyst that ﬁ  nally got me to 
accept my truth,” she said.
Now, 14 months later, life for Kabat means 
keeping her family and friends close, reaching out to others she knows who may be falling on hard times and ﬁ  ghting back against the stigma that people with abuse disorders are bad people.
Recovery is not as easy as just going to re-
hab, she says openly.
She still calls her counselor. She still goes 
to meetings. She still uses her 12-step program and the recovery center regularly to help stay sober and in good health.
That’s why she said she’s so open about her 
own story, for the other young girls or students who may be suffering in the dark.
“Hope is alive, a new way of life is pos-
sible,” she said. “You just have to want it and 
let others help.” 
This article is the ﬁ  nal addition to a two-
part series on substance abuse. Read part one 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
Weldon said he’s not running for 
re-election because he thinks he can 
do more for UF outside SG than as a senator.
“I’m not into SG at the time,” Wel-
don said.
Weldon said he emailed the Stu-
dent Senate leadership Thursday after 
posting the meme to request a change 
of party afﬁ  liation.
Kylie Werk, one of the Impact cam-
paign managers, said she contacted 
Weldon the night he posted the meme to reprimand him. 
“While he may have posted that 
with good intentions, we absolutely 
condemn the fact that he posted it,” 
Werk said. “It does not reﬂ  ect the val-ues or beliefs of our party.”
Weldon declined to comment on 
whether the meme was related to his decision to leave Impact.
Weldon said he decided to change 
parties because he disagrees with Im-pact’s decision “to make the Big 9 
groups and fraternities and sororities 
happy, instead of the entire Student Body.” 
“I had my differences,” Weldon said. “It is what it is.”
Weldon said the Big 9 are major 
clubs on campus which get most of SG’s funding, including groups like Black Student Union and Volunteers 
for International Student Affairs. He 
said Impact does this because those groups’ members are the ones who vote. 
As president of Young Americans 
for Freedom, Weldon said his ﬁ  rst-year club could not apply for funding because of an SG law. This prevented them from recruiting members, he 
said. 
He said he doesn’t blame only Im-
pact for SG’s problems.
Weldon said he thinks some SG 
laws are outdated, and Impact is sim-
ply the main party at the moment. He said there has always been a main party in SG that does what Impact is doing.
 “I don’t know if I’d necessarily 
say it’s a system party, but there’s a lot of similarities between the interest groups related to that main party ev-
ery year,” Weldon said. 
Ty Van Duyn, a UF ﬁ  nance fresh-
man, said he thinks there’s no prob-
lem with Weldon posting the meme since he’s seen Inspire memes on the page as well.
“It’s a meme page where every-
thing goes,” Van Duyn said. “Calling it a campaign violation is an overreac-
tion.”
The 18-year-old said he thinks 
Weldon’s statement that most people 
don’t care about SG is true because 
the voting turnout is low. 
When Kianna Brown, a UF public 
relations senior, saw Weldon’s post 
Thursday, she found it contradictory that he asked people to not post pro-
paganda when she saw his post as just 
that.
Brown said most students aren’t 
interested in SG because they either 
can’t come to campus to vote or they 
think their vote doesn’t count because of a “system party.” 
She said Weldon should’ve used 
his position to encourage people to 
engage with SG instead of promoting 
disinterest.
“He has an opportunity to change 
those feelings, and he didn’t take that 
opportunity,” the 21-year-old said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
The meme was posted in a Facebook 
group by a current  Impact senator 
Kabat’s been sober for 14 monthsCourtesy to the Alligator
Daniel Weldon (Impact, Keys) said he posted the meme on 
the “Swampy UF memes for top ten public teens, ” a private Facebook group with about 22,000 members, because he was tired of seeing Inspire Party candidates and support-ers post their party’s propaganda. In his post, Weldon wrote “Please stop posting propaganda to this page reacts only. ”
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
Olivia Kabat tells the story of her former substance abuse disorder at the UF Health Florida Recovery Center. Kabat, a 22-year-old UF telecommunication ﬁ  fth year, has been sober for more than 14 months.
MEME,  from pg 1
ADDICTION,  from pg 1
•   •   •
•   •   •
at alligator.org MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Friday, Sept. 29 @ 7:00 pm
Artwalk Gainesville
8:00 pm JP Latin All Stars Band from Jacksonville
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By Emily Long
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bogey, a 2-year-old Pomera-
nian, won best dressed for his 
fox outfit at Sweet Paws Bakery’s 
10th anniversary Saturday.
Best dressed was one of sev-
eral categories dogs competed in 
at the event from 10 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. Dogs sought a bag of home-
made treats in exchange for their best kiss, tail wag, tricks and grooming. Sweet Paws Bakery, a locally run dog bakery located at 5330 SW 91st Terrace, provides 
Haile Plantation Village Cen-
ter with a self-serve dog wash, boutique and small dog daycare. The shop also sells homemade dog treats, designer collars, har-
nesses, apparel, durable toys, spa 
products and beds. 
Colleen O’Fallon, the owner 
of Sweet Paws Bakery, and her 
mom, Pat, bake treats every 
night. O’Fallon said she came up with the recipes for her dog treats by finding recipes for cookies and other human treats and adapting 
it to a dog’s diet.
“I didn’t like the treats I was 
seeing at PetSmart; they were 
filled with fillers and salt and sugar, and I was like, ‘That 
should not be in treats for dogs,’” 
she said.
O’Fallon tests her treats on her 
cocker spaniel, Parker.
“If he doesn’t like it, it doesn’t 
go out on the shelves,” she said.
O’Fallon hosts the anniversary event every year and always in-vites some of her customers to 
advertise their businesses at her 
event.
“(My customers) always sup-
ported me so I feel like I should 
support them as well,” said 
O’Fallon.
Katie Davis, a customer and 
an independent consultant for Swamp Kisses, set up a booth to 
promote her makeup business 
and sold lipstick.
Davis’ golden retriever, Oak-
ley, won best trick, winning over 
the audience and judges by sit-ting, spinning and standing on 
his hind legs on Davis’ command.
The event raised $125, from 
the $5 entrance fee for competi-tors, for Gainesville Pet Rescue Inc. and Haile’s Angels Pet Res-
cue, O’Fallon said.
“We hope to just keep reach-
ing out to the community more 
and doing more community events and donating more to the 
rescues in the area and just doing 
more charity events for them,” she said. “And then just hopeful-ly meeting new doggie owners.”Dog bakery celebrates its 10th anniversary
Emily Long / Alligator Contributor
Katie Davis’ golden retriever, Oakley, poses after winning best 
trick at Sweet Paws Bakery’s 10th anniversary on Saturday. The event raised $125 for Gainesville Pet Rescue Inc. and Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue from a $5 fee collected from competition participants.
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff 
PRETTIFYING PUMPKINS AT THE FALL FESTIVAL
Madeline Jarman, a UF telecommunication sophomore, decorates a pumpkin on the ﬁ  rst day of fall, which was Friday. Dozens of students participated in a Fall Festival on the North Lawn with other fall-themed activities.
Customers’ dogs competed in contestsBy Morgan McMullen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Supporters of Albert and Alberta Gator 
can now use specialized emojis to com-
municate through social media and mes-saging. 
Alicia Longworth, the assistant 
athletic director for marketing and promotions for the Univer-sity Athletic Association, said the 
marketing staff has been working 
with Ree Stickers since April to de-velop the brand of stickers. 
People can download the app, Ree 
Stickers, on Apple’s app store or 
Google Play for no cost, but there are 
in-app purchases. 
Ree Stickers is an app that turns 
mascots and school logos into emoji 
stickers. The app features stickers 
from 18 different universities and colleges that can be shared through Facebook messenger, Twitter, Insta-
gram and regular texting. 
“Emoji stickers are a very trendy item that we knew our fans and students 
would love,” Longworth said. 
Longworth said work on the project 
came at no cost to the UAA. 
John Hart, the CEO of MyWeb and de-
veloper of Ree Stickers, said the com-
pany paid UF licensing fees to 
use their mascot. He declined to 
comment how much they paid. 
Hart said the UF-speciﬁ  c 
emojis have “thousands” of 
users. 
“Considering the time that’s 
been spent on marketing the Florida 
Gators set, that’s pretty good,” Hart 
said. 
Noah Richman, a 19-year-old 
UF accounting sophomore, said 
the new keyboard could further 
personalize social media inter-
actions. 
“It would provide tremen-
dous value to the emoji game,” 
Richman said. “I would use it.” 10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
To assist farmworkers in Apop-
ka, Florida, students planted and 
cleaned debris under the hot sun, sweat dripping down their backs.
UF Hispanic Heritage Month, 
which began Sept. 15 and runs until Oct. 15, celebrates Hispanic culture with different events. On Saturday, 20 students traveled to 
Apopka to assist the Farmworkers 
Organization of Florida, which is a majority immigrant group, said Mariana Castro, the external direc-tor of UF Hispanic Heritage Month.
Castro said farmworkers are of-
ten left hungry and thirsty in the ﬁ  elds, working sunup to sundown 
to put food on their table and give 
their children more opportunities. She said it’s common for work 
conditions to not provide shade or 
bathrooms, and workers may earn 
as little as a penny per vegetable 
picked.
“I hope that this trip can pro-
vide (the students) with the tools 
so that they can bring that back, they can bring the knowledge 
back to campus and do something about it,” Castro, a 23-year-old 
UF biology senior, said. “Because 
when you learn about these is-
sues, you don’t often forget about 
them.”
Kendra Blandon, a leader on the 
trip, said students volunteered in Apopka’s vegetation nursery and 
community garden project, giving 
them a perspective on how much immigrants provide to farms.
Blandon, a 19-year-old UF in-
ternational studies sophomore, said students learned about agri-cultural practices, migrant rights and how consumers can support 
fair trade.
“We are grateful for the Apop-
ka Farmworkers Association and 
what they do,” Blandon said.
On Sunday, UF Hispanic Heri-
tage Month also hosted its ﬁ  rst 5K and festival, called Corriendo 
Para Unir, or Running to Unite. 
The event brought in about 100 students and had bounce houses, 
face painting, music, arts and 
crafts, food and giveaways, said Ornella Saragusti, the festival di-
rector.
Justin Ortiz, the executive di-
rector of UF Hispanic Heritage Month, said the event cost $2,000 
and was funded by Student Gov-
ernment and other UF sources.
The event raised about $300 
for Chispas, a club which supports undocumented students, in dona-
tions.
“This month is super impor-
tant,” Saragusti said. “It pulls in a lot of people, and it’s a huge cel-
ebration.” Hispanic students travel to Apopka to help farmworkers
EIGHT PEOPLE 
PARTICIPATED IN AN 
EXTREME FOOD-EATING 
CONTEST.
By Stephanie Gonzalez 
and Amanda Rosa
Alligator Contributing Writers
Eight veterans, family members 
and volunteers anxiously looked at 
the hog’s testicle placed on the plate in front of them Saturday.
The extreme food-eating contest 
was one of the fundraising efforts by a faith-based veteran and family nonproﬁ  t during the third annual 10 CAN Inc. Banquet & Wild Florida Feast from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Fort Clarke United Methodist Church, located at 9325 W. Newberry Road. The eight participants in the con-test chowed down on a serving of 
hog testicles, smoked grasshoppers, 
smoked cow tongue, squirrel brains and raw ﬁ  sh eyes while about 364 attendees of the banquet watched.Andrea Reddick, a 32-year-old 
mother of ﬁ  ve, gulped down the raw ﬁ  sh eyes faster than her com-petitors and told the crowd she would spend her $200 cash win-
nings on groceries.
Matthew Burke, founder and ex-
ecutive director of 10 CAN, said the 
idea for the contest stemmed from the organization’s use of outdoor recreational therapy to rehabilitate veterans and their families.
“When I was hurt in Afghani-
stan, I was told by one of the men-
tors that you gotta trim off all the 
bad stuff, focus on your roots and it’ll help you grow in your life,” Burke said. “Like pruning a peach tree.”
The banquet also featured a 
rafﬂ  e and live auction with out-door-themed items like a 75-pound bucket of honey bought for $150, a 
miniature bat house purchased for 
$140 and decoy ducks for hunting for $100.
Before the other activities, at 
about 6 p.m. 10 CAN served the at-tendees barbecue, and veterans and family members exchanged stories over dinner.
The ﬁ  rst banquet held in 2014 
was a Christmas potluck. Burke 
said he wanted to make the event’s 
theme revolve around the overall theme of the organization, which is to provide an outdoor experience to veterans and their families.
“That is something that will 
never go away. The outdoors will always be there,” he said.
Crystal Walter, a 32-year-old 
Gainesville resident, served for four years in the U.S. Air Force in New Mexico and was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and anxiety. Walter, who moved to Florida from Tennessee in March, attended the banquet to meet other veterans.
“I’m excited to make those con-
nections and hopefully to interact with (other veterans) on a more regular basis so that we’re not just stuck at home all the time,” Walter said.
Veterans attend banquet and feast on exotic foods 
Claudia Forster T orres / Alligator Contributor 
Andrea Reddick, 32, eats a mullet’s eye during an eating contest at the 
10 CAN Banquet & Wild Florida Feast on Saturday.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Adorned in rainbow-patched vests and 
face paint, about 50 Girl Scouts conducted 
science experiments at the Society of Women Engineers’ annual Girl Scout Day.
The event helps introduce young girls to 
engineering, said Megan Labrecque, the So-ciety of Women Engineers’ on-campus inter-nal outreach chair. Organizers set up about 
ﬁ  ve stations in the Reitz Union on Saturday, 
where the scouts ﬁ  ddled with aluminum-foil boats, soda-bottle rockets and Popsicle sticks to model different ﬁ  elds in engineering.
Ella Osborne, an 8-year-old Girl Scout, 
said she was excited to work with robots.
“I like to tinker with things,” Osborne 
said. “I took apart a computer, and it was re-ally fun.”
Labrecque, a UF biomedical engineering 
sophomore, said it’s rewarding to see the “aha” moment as the girls experiment with their projects. She hopes it inspires conﬁ  -
dence in the girls.
In her own classes, Labrecque said the ra-tio between men and women still tilts heavily 
in favor of men. She said the event may intro-
duce engineering to a younger generation of 
women, boosting those numbers.
“Sometimes you do have points in your 
life where you feel just alienated because you’re a girl in engineering, but if you’re kind 
of used to it or you have more girls coming 
in, it’s less intimidating, almost,” the 19-year-old said.
Amelia Moore, a 9-year-old member of 
Troop 1247, was excited to build and play at the different stations. Moore said she likes arts and crafts, and science is her favorite subject in school. When she grows up, she wants to be a scientist like her mom.
Brenda Moore, Amelia’s mom, does re-
search on Alzheimer’s disease with the UF College of Medicine. Moore said the event would help introduce Amelia, and other girls, 
to the possibility of engineering ﬁ  elds.
“I didn’t know until I went to college,” 
Brenda Moore said. “So I thought it would be 
a good way for her to know.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgGirl Scouts learn about 
engineering, scienceAlbert and Alberta Gator-themed emojis available
Stickers, on Apple’s app store or 
Google Play for no cost, but there are 
Ree Stickers is an app that turns 
mascots and school logos into emoji 
stickers. The app features stickers 
from 18 different universities and 
colleges that can be shared through 
Facebook messenger, Twitter, Insta-
“Emoji stickers are a very trendy 
said. 
Noah Richman, a 19-year-old 
UF accounting sophomore, said 
the new keyboard could further 
personalize social media inter-
actions. 
“It would provide tremen-
dous value to the emoji game,” 
Richman said. “I would use it.” 
municate through social media and mes-
 veloper of Ree Stickers, said the com-
pany paid UF licensing fees to 
use their mascot. He declined to 
comment how much they paid. 
been spent on marketing the Florida 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
CABANA BEACH APT! 1BR/1BA in 4BR/4BA $445/mo! Furnished. Utilities & amenities in-cluded! W/D in unit. Female only. Great pool, rec room. Close to UF & The Oaks Mall. No pets. Call 352-207-1039     9-29-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-
3901     10-2-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
1BR/1BA available for UF student only. Immediate move-in. Located very close to campus. Call Erica or Michelle 352-373-2700    9-29-17-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
Violinist seeking treble-clef-reading duet partner for paid gigs (flute or violin). Must be advanced (Bach Double, 3rd position, vi-brato). Please call Elizabeth 503-473-3295.     10-2-5-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-2-5-14
Now Hiring! Managers, Assistant Managers, & Associates for Goodwill stores. Start at $9.15/hr. Call (352) 335-1311 or visit Job Junction at 3520 SW 34th St. Apply online at goodwilljax.org      10-2-17-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15
1. In 2016, Toronto’s Josh Donald-
son became the sixth player in A.L. 
history to have at least 20 home runs 
and 80 runs scored by the All-Star 
break. Name three of the other five to do it.
2. Miami’s Giancarlo Stanton tied a 
record in the 2016 All-Star Home Run Derby with 61 home runs. Who had held the mark?
3. Cam Newton holds the Carolina 
Panthers record for most TD passes in 
a career (136 entering the 2017 sea-
son). Jake Delhomme is second (120). Who is third?
4. In 2014, Florida’s Kasey Hill 
became the fourth men’s freshman 
basketball player to dish out 10 assists 
in an NCAA Tournament Sweet 16 game. Name two of the other three to do it.
5. Nashville’s Peter Laviolette, in 
2017, became the fourth NHL coach to take three different teams to the Stanley Cup Finals. Who were the other three?
6. In 2016, Ashton Eaton became 
the third athlete to win back-to-back 
Olympic decathlons. Name the other 
two to do it.
7. Who are the only golfers to shoot 
a 63 in a men’s major twice?
Answers
1. Lou Gehrig (1936), Ted Williams 
(‘46), Reggie Jackson (‘69), Frank Thomas (‘94) and Alex Rodriguez (2000).
2. Bobby Abreu hit 41 homers in 
2005.
3. Steve Beuerlein, with 86.4. Magic Johnson (1978), Keith Gat-
lin (1984) and Jason Kidd (1993).
5. Dick Irvin, Scotty Bowman and 
Mike Keenan.
6. Daley Thompson (1980, 1984) 
and Bob Mathias (1948, 1952).
7. Greg Norman and Vijay Singh.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 25, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2075   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Another Saturday night 
without a date?Read The Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Bored? Like to laugh?Need water to survive?If you said yes, google:"READY SET COMEDY PODCAST"It's for you!                                    9-29-4-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACROSS
1 Party thrower
5 Seasoned rice
dish
10 Practical joke
13 Classroom “I
know this one!”
14 Sandwich chain
known for artisan
bread
15 “__ you kidding?”
16 “Is that your __?”:
“Who Wants to
Be a Millionaire?”
inquiry
18 Moral wrong
19 Blender brand
with an -izer
product suffix
20 Spam container
21 Board in a
window shutter
22 Amazon : Alexa ::
Apple : __
24 Malia Obama’s
sister
26 Canyon feedback
29 Surg. facilities31 Touch of color34 Request for eye
contact
36 Utterly detest
37 Acct. earnings
38 Start of a formal
letter
40 Shade tree
41 Time-tested
43 Library return spot
45 Nick of “A Walk
in the Woods”
46 __-dried
tomatoes
47 Bills in a tip jar
48 Remove sheets
from, as a bed
51 Tiny time meas.
53 “See ya, Luigi”
55 Alumna bio word
57 Monopoly cards
60 Punch-in-the-gut
reaction
61 Colorful burger
topper
64 Broke a fast
65 Annual golf or
tennis
tournament
66 “Yay me!”
67 “Viva __ Vegas”68 All wound up69 Thick cut of meat
DOWN
1 Sports inst. in
Cooperstown2 Akron’s state
3 Family boys4 “Don’t sweat it”
5 Omelet cooker
6 The “I” in MIT:
Abbr.
7 Novelist C.S. __
8 Concert venue9 In the distance
10 Quaint light
during a power
outage
11 Diva’s solo
12 Courteous fellow14 Repeated
mindlessly
17 Flower wreath
21 Muslim
denomination
23 “__ la Douce”
25 Bird on birth
announcements
26 González in 2000
headlines
27 Second longest
African river
28 Secure places
for guests’
valuables
30 Belgrade natives32 Actress Sevigny
33 Weather
numbers, briefly
35 Psychologist
Alfred36 Hostile place ...
and where to findthe circled
animals in thispuzzle
39 Salad go-with
42 “Beetle Bailey”
dog
44 Museum guides
49 Unavailable at
the moment
50 Evita’s married
name52 Fair-hiring abbr.53 Stuff for Frosty’s
eyes
54 Greek “i”
56 “Almost
Christmas” actor
Omar
58 Rotary phone part59 Coke or ginger ale
61 __ up with:
tolerate
62 Director Spike
63 Arrest
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/25/1709/25/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, September 25, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Merry
1.  Scrapped5.  Wanderer
2.  Leave6.  Moon path
3.  Able to be heard7.  ____ Sea
4.  Small +VAJLOI
KDEJNUDANOM
BROIT
SMAVOEO
BAUIDELEGEANA
RNOPTOANSWERS: 1A-Jovial  5A-Nomad  6A-Orbit  7A-Aegean
1D-Junked  2D-Vamoose  3D-Audible  4D-Proton  B-Mojave Desert9-25-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____  takes up about 
50,000 square miles. BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.ACROSS
1 The punch in
Planter’s Punch
8 Set overly easy
goals
14 Disk problem
15 Curly-haired
“Peanuts”
character
16 Foreshadows
17 Like rattlers18 Drawn19 Former Haitian
president
21 Policy at certain
clubs
22 Display some
guns
23 “Wuthering
Heights” setting
24 Gulf States
leader
25 Taylor of
“AmericanCrime”
26 Wedding
announcement
27 It’s in many
poems
28 Sachet filler
30 Informal passing
remark?
32 Repository for
spare or unused
parts
36 Cheerleading
outfit?
38 Lummox39 Covered
carriages
42 Reverse of a 
knit
43 Selfish sort44 Be the first to say45 Pâté base46 Month after
diciembre
47 Immortal Kiev-
born pianist
49 Company whose
name appears inan odometer inits logo
50 Commonly seen
brown vehicle
51 Gross out53 It may be rolled
up on a farm
54 Like the praying
mantis55 In Tupperware,
say
56 Ready to ride
DOWN
1 Cost-effective
2 Dessert with a kick
3 Mad __
4 Took courses at
home
5 West Coast ZIP
starter
6 Neatnik’s possible
condition, briefly
7 Mississippi
explorer
8 Tack on9 Line 32 items on
1040 forms
10 D, P or S, on
quarters
11 Vast multitude12 Had way too
much of
13 Angler’s gear14 Grand children?20 Pull over, say?
22 Fin
25 Lighter
26 Give a little
28 Wranglers
alternative29 Part of DINK
31 Fleming work33 Ride cost before
taxes and such
34 Ran
35 Ran off
37 Subway
alternative
39 Speed down a
slope
40 Rockers Mott 
the __41 Like some
offshore rescues
43 “Are you kidding
me?!”
45 Punished in
court, in a way
46 Let up
48 Parade 
greeting
49 Helped on stage
52 Literary
assortment
By Mark Diehl
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/23/1709/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior men's golfer Alejandro T osti is in a tie for second place after Day 1 of the Trinity Forest Invitational in Dallas. Find out how the rest of the team fared on Pg. 15. UF  men's tennis, women's golf teams competed Sunday
The Gators men's tennis team wrapped up its ﬁ  rst two tournaments of the 
fall over the weekend. Meanwhile, after putting itself in second place Sun-
day, the UF women's golf team heads into the last round of the Schooner Fall Classic today. Follow both teams at alligator.org/sports.VOLLEYBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Up 14-13 with the match on the line, Allie 
Monserez set up Florida's kill leader, Carli 
Snyder, to put away a dogﬁ  ght between the 
Gators and the Razorbacks in Arkansas.
Snyder delivered. Florida won another 
SEC opener under coach Mary Wise.
Redshirt senior Pilar Victoria and Arkan-
sas (11-3, 1-1 SEC) gave the Gators all it 
could handle in a back-and-forth 3-2 (25-22, 21-25, 25-16, 23-25, 15-13) thriller.
Every time it seemed like the Gators were 
going to pull away, the Razorbacks stormed 
back.
After dropping the ﬁ  rst set, Arkansas 
used a late 7-2 run to take the second and 
even up the match.
A 5-1 advantage closing out the fourth set 
kept the Razorbacks alive with a 2-1 Gators lead forcing their back against the ropes.
But Arkansas’ magic ended at the hand 
of Snyder, whose 17th kill secured the ﬁ  nal 
set and kept the Gators perfect record intact.
“This has been a place where Carli’s 
serve has loved her,” Florida coach Mary 
Wise said after the game. “We talked last  Gators nab ﬁ  rst SEC win in tight match at Arkansas
Alligator File Photo
Carli Snyder's 17 kills helped lead UF to a 3-2 win over Arkansas on Sunday afternoon in the Gators SEC opener.
Jim McElwain had a smugness 
about him after Saturday’s come-
back win against Kentucky. He looked like he was trying to avoid smiling, as if to send a message 
that winning close games is just 
what his team does. That there’s nothing special about it. It re-minded me of something he said after last season’s goal-line stand, SEC East-clinching win at LSU. 
“I just can’t tell you how 
proud I am of our players, our staff and happy for the Gator 
fans, you know, that, you know, 
don’t think we’re very good,” he said following that game on Nov. 19, “but all we do is end up back in Atlanta, right? So that’s pretty cool.”
McElwain clearly felt he 
proved something to Florida fans with that win, and I think it’s car-
ried over to this season — espe-
cially following the loss to Michi-gan. After that game, he once again felt like he had something to prove. It showed in his post-Kentucky press conference. 
“Our guys hung in there and 
ﬁ  gured out how to win the game,” he said. “Maybe it’s crazy, but I’m a ﬁ  rm believer in you ﬁ  gure out how to win. That’s what it’s all about.”
At a school that 
measures success on the scale of Steve Spurrier and Urban Meyer, that constant need for validation and emphasis on win-ning clutch games seems reason-able. Because despite claiming consecutive division crowns, an 
increasingly louder group of Flor-
ida fans wants McElwain ﬁ  red. One fan even started a GoFund-Me page to pay for his $20-mil-lion buyout that, as of publica-tion, had raised $107 and been shared 20 times. 
But when McElwain brags 
that his team ﬁ  nds a way to win, 
it’s not talk. It’s backed up with 
numbers. So maybe that smug-ness is justiﬁ  ed after all. 
In his three years at UF, McEl-
wain has won nine of 10 games decided by one possession or less. That 90-percent mark dwarfs any recent Gators coach starting with Spurrier, who took over at Florida in 1990. 
Meyer is the best 
in the category with a 60-percent mark, while Spurrier is close 
behind at 59 percent. 
Granted, McEl-
wain’s sample size 
is much smaller than Meyer’s and Spurri-er’s. But there’s more 
to it than raw percentages. 
In addition to winning 90 per-
cent of one-possession games, 
33 percent of McElwain’s total 
games at UF have been decided by one possession. That’s nearly twice Spurrier’s percentage (19) and beats Meyer’s (25) as well. 
In simpler terms, McElwain 
is playing in a lot of close games and winning almost all of them, while Spurrier and Meyer were 
more likely to blow teams out. 
He’s used that fact to claim legiti-macy to Florida’s coaching throne when his team hasn’t passed the eye test. And for now, it’s enough to keep players happy and fans (mostly) appeased. 
“A win’s a win,” defensive 
tackle Taven Bryan said follow-ing Saturday’s game. “Honestly, we’d like to just dominate so people can go home. But I ain’t complaining. I’ll take it.”
But in statistics, numbers usu-
ally regress to the mean. If you measure UF’s next 10 one-pos-session games, it’s unlikely McEl-wain will win nine of them again. They’re just too unpredictable. 
He’d probably say it’s just the 
makeup of his team to be clutch, and many of his players agree. But again, it’s about probability. 
When you play that many close 
games, you’re bound to lose some of them. Even someone as accomplished as Spurrier barely won more than half of them. 
So should McElwain be smug 
about his team being “clutch” right now? Absolutely. He’s earned it. Will that clutchness 
continue? 
Probably not. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. 
Keep an eye out for his next col-
umn by following him on Twitter 
@ebaueri. You can contact him at 
ebauer@alligator.org.
McElwain is the luckiest coach in recent Florida football historySweet and Bauer / Opinion
SOCCER
Mayra Pelayo squared up an Alabama 
defender on the right wing and darted to-
ward the end line. She played a cross, try-
ing to pick out one of multiple teammates in the box.
But Pelayo’s ball never made it to a fel-
low Gator. The Crimson Tide’s Kayla Mou-ton directed the cross away from the center 
of the box, but toward her own goal. The 
redirect snuck past goalkeeper Kat Stratton on her near post and Mouton covered her 
face in frustration.
The goal credited to Pelayo was UF’s 
second in as many minutes, as the Gators (8-2) bounced back from their midweek de-
feat, toppling the Crimson Tide 3-0 with a second-half surge on Sunday at UF's James 
G. Pressly Stadium.Rose leads UF 
in 3-0 shutout 
over Alabama
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15 
SWIMMING
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The Florida Gators came out on top for 
the eighth consecutive year in the All-Flor -
ida Invitational, with both the men’s and 
women’s team taking first place Sunday at 
the O’Connell Center.
The women’s team had another strong 
day after Saturday’s performance, with 
one slight hiccup. it originally won the 
lone team event of the day, the women’s 
400 free relay, but was disqualified for an 
early jump. Despite the miscue, the team 
took home every individual event except 
for one: a victory in the women’s 100 free -
style, which was won by Florida State’s 
Alexi Smith with a time of 50.59. UF fresh -
man Taylor Ault won the women’s 1,650 
freestyle with a time of 16:50.91, sopho -
more Georgia Darwent won the women’s 
200 backstroke with a time of 2:00.72, and 
the women’s 200 fly went to junior Hannah 
Burns with a time of 2:02.48. 
Savanna Faulconer, having won three 
other events over the course of the invi -
tational, grabbed another victory in the 
women’s 200 breast with a time of 2:18.43.
“We trained hard this week. I was more 
focused than I was last year at this time 
and I am more confident,” Faulconer, a 
sophomore, said after the event. “As fresh -
men, we scored no points, and we didn’t 
want to forget it, we wanted to always re -
member that.” 
Faulconer also took part in the team re -
lays, which she says is a different experi -
ence than swimming individually.
“It’s a little more pressure because they’re worth more points,” she said. “You 
don’t want to let your whole team down. 
When you’re swimming for yourself, you’re 
just swimming for yourself.”
The men’s swimming team emerged vic -
torious in every event for the third day in a 
row. The team won the 400 freestyle relay 
with a time of 2:57.76, and it dominated the 
field in individual races. The 1,650 freestyle 
went to senior Ben Lawless with a time of 
15:32.43. Sophomore Maxime Rooney won 
the men’s 200 backstroke with a time of 
1:46.34. The men’s 200 breaststroke went 
to junior Ross Palazzo with a time of 
2:01.75, and the men’s 100 free went to se -
nior standout Caeleb Dressel, winning with 
a time of 44.59. Jan Switkowski, a Polish 
native and 14-time All-American, won the 
men’s 200 fly with a time of 1:47.55, con -
tinuing his successful performance at the 
invitational after winning two other events.
“I think we feel very confident in our 
team. This is just a starting point,” Swit -
kowski said.
With the All-Florida Invitational 
wrapped up, both teams will be preparing 
for their next meets against Texas at the 
O’Connell Center on Oct. 20.
“We’re definitely very strong in the free -
styles, butterflies, and IMs,” Switkowski 
said. “I think the breaststroke hurts and the 
backstroke hurts, but it’s only a matter of 
time before we start dropping fast times, so 
I’m not too worried about that.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgMEN’S GOLF
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Coming into the Gators second fall 
tournament on Sunday, men’s golf coach 
J.C. Deacon expected more out of his 
team.
While Alejandro Tosti took home in -
dividual honors at the Carpet Capital In -
vitational earlier this month, Deacon was 
not pleased with his team’s performance 
as a whole.
“To have a winner of the event, and 
the team to finish fifth, that’s not good 
enough for our standards,” Deacon said 
following that tournament.
In response, he put sophomore Andy 
Zhang in the starting lineup. And after 
one round of play at the Trinity Forest In -
vitational in Dallas, it seems to be work -
ing.
Several Gators put up strong numbers 
including Tosti, who is once again in the 
mix for individual victory and is tied for 
second place after shooting 4 under on 
Sunday. He is one of three Florida golf -
ers currently in the top 10, along with 
freshman Chris Nido (tied for sixth) and 
Zhang (tied for 10th).  The Gators turned 
these performances into a one-stroke lead 
over Texas in team play after one round.
Junior Gordon Neale was even for 
the day and is tied for 23rd, putting four 
Florida golfers in the top 25. Freshman 
John Axelsen, on the other hand, strug -
gled again Sunday. He was 5 over for the 
round, which was only good enough for a share of 63rd place.
However, Florida appears to have 
found the consistency it was looking for 
in the last tournament, and that will be 
an important factor for this team moving 
forward.
“I love the patience and discipline we 
showed as a team today,” Deacon said in 
a release. “We didn’t get off to the best of 
starts but all five of the guys stayed in it. 
Our back nine was fantastic. Eleven bird -
ies and an eagle with minimal mistakes. 
We need to rely on that patient and dis -
cipline mindset the rest of the week and 
year for that matter.”
Also worth mentioning is the per -
formance of redshirt sophomore Blake 
Dyer. Dyer, who didn’t play last year, is 
competing as an individual in this tour -
nament and has been impressive thus 
far. He is tied for 14th, and at only five 
strokes behind the leader, has a chance 
to compete for the individual title.
The highlight of Dyer’s day came at 
hole 12, where he earned his first career 
ace. That feat undoubtedly got the atten -
tion of Florida’s coaches.
“Big cheers to Blake Dyer on his hole-
in-one,” Deacon said. “He does so many 
great things for us, I’m really happy to 
see that happen to him.”
Florida will look to hold onto its lead 
in the second round on Monday morning.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgSolid play throughout puts 
Gators in the lead after oneUF wins first tournament of the 
fall at All-Florida Invitationalround in Dallasning streak over the Wildcats to 31 straight 
games, the longest such streak in the nation. 
The win gave No. 21 Florida its second 
SEC victory and its first road win of the sea -
son, and thoroughly disappointed a Kentucky 
crowd and team that fully expected to end 
the night with a victory.
“We’re better than that team,” UK run -
ning back Benny Snell said after the loss. 
“Period.”
But it didn’t end with a Kentucky win. It 
didn’t end with the roar of a blue and white 
crowd rushing the field after defeating the  
Gators. Instead, it ended with the soft thud 
of a football landing on the turf off the leg 
of Kentucky kicker Austin MacGinnis, whose 
57-yard kick as time expired fell just a few 
yards short.
So too did Kentucky, for the 31st straight 
year. And for the second consecutive game, 
Florida won in the final seconds.
“Clutch,” junior defensive lineman CeCe 
Jefferson said, and then paused. “Yeah, I like 
that word.”
But despite Florida’s late-game heroics, 
the win may have posed more questions than 
it offered answers.
After naming Franks the starting quar -
terback before UF’s season opener on Sept. 
2, and after playing him for the entirety of 
UF’s win against Tennessee during Week 3, 
UF coach Jim McElwain pulled Franks in the 
third quarter of Saturday’s game in favor of 
Del Rio.
Franks had been serviceable up to that 
point — he completed seven of his 12 passes 
for 85 yards and a touchdown — but began 
the second half with three straight incomple -
tions and a 2-yard sack.After McElwain pulled Franks, Del Rio led 
the Gators to victory.
With 43 seconds left in the fourth quarter, 
Del Rio capped a 13-play, 58-yard drive with 
a 5-yard touchdown pass to receiver Freddie 
Swain, giving Florida a one-point lead. Del 
Rio finished 9-of-14 with 74 yards, one touch -
down and one interception.
“I thought (Franks) played well,” Del 
Rio said. “(But) sometimes you just need to 
shake things up and get a spark.”
McElwain thought so, too.
But despite the win, the Gators may have 
shaken up a quarterback room that seemed 
to finally be finding stability.
McElwain said Franks was happy with 
the win, but that he was “obviously disap -
pointed” about being pulled.
“We just felt we needed a jump-start a 
little bit,” McElwain said. “Feleipe didn’t do 
anything wrong.”
But now, heading into this weekend’s 
matchup against Vanderbilt (3-1, 0-1 SEC), 
Florida does not know who its starting quar -
terback will be. McElwain said the team will 
look at game film this week and make a deci -
sion.
After Saturday’s contest, several Florida 
players insisted that it doesn’t matter who the 
starting quarterback is. McElwain added that 
both Franks and Del Rio are supportive of 
each other and are handling the uncertainty 
with maturity.
But, entering the thick of their confer -
ence schedule, the Gators will undoubtedly 
be looking for some much-needed stability at 
their most important position.
“We’ll sit down and evaluate it,” McEl -
wain said. “We have a lot of work to do.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Long snapper Ryan Farr celebrates following Florida’s 28-27 win over Kentucky on 
Saturday at Kroger Field. Backup quarterback Luke Del Rio helped UF overcome a 
13-point deficit to stun the Wildcats with a victory.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Senior men's golfer Alejandro T osti is in a tie for second place after Day 1 of the Trinity Forest Invitational in Dallas. Find out how the rest of the team fared on Pg. 15. UF  men's tennis, women's golf teams competed Sunday
The Gators men's tennis team wrapped up its ﬁ  rst two tournaments of the 
fall over the weekend. Meanwhile, after putting itself in second place Sun-
day, the UF women's golf team heads into the last round of the Schooner Fall Classic today. Follow both teams at alligator.org/sports.VOLLEYBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Up 14-13 with the match on the line, Allie 
Monserez set up Florida's kill leader, Carli 
Snyder, to put away a dogﬁ  ght between the 
Gators and the Razorbacks in Arkansas.
Snyder delivered. Florida won another 
SEC opener under coach Mary Wise.
Redshirt senior Pilar Victoria and Arkan-
sas (11-3, 1-1 SEC) gave the Gators all it 
could handle in a back-and-forth 3-2 (25-22, 21-25, 25-16, 23-25, 15-13) thriller.
Every time it seemed like the Gators were 
going to pull away, the Razorbacks stormed 
back.
After dropping the ﬁ  rst set, Arkansas 
used a late 7-2 run to take the second and 
even up the match.
A 5-1 advantage closing out the fourth set 
kept the Razorbacks alive with a 2-1 Gators lead forcing their back against the ropes.
But Arkansas’ magic ended at the hand 
of Snyder, whose 17th kill secured the ﬁ  nal 
set and kept the Gators perfect record intact.
“This has been a place where Carli’s 
serve has loved her,” Florida coach Mary 
Wise said after the game. “We talked last  Gators nab ﬁ  rst SEC win in tight match at Arkansas
Alligator File Photo
Carli Snyder's 17 kills helped lead UF to a 3-2 win over Arkansas on Sunday afternoon in the Gators SEC opener.
Jim McElwain had a smugness 
about him after Saturday’s come-
back win against Kentucky. He looked like he was trying to avoid smiling, as if to send a message 
that winning close games is just 
what his team does. That there’s nothing special about it. It re-minded me of something he said after last season’s goal-line stand, SEC East-clinching win at LSU. 
“I just can’t tell you how 
proud I am of our players, our staff and happy for the Gator 
fans, you know, that, you know, 
don’t think we’re very good,” he said following that game on Nov. 19, “but all we do is end up back in Atlanta, right? So that’s pretty cool.”
McElwain clearly felt he 
proved something to Florida fans with that win, and I think it’s car-
ried over to this season — espe-
cially following the loss to Michi-gan. After that game, he once again felt like he had something to prove. It showed in his post-Kentucky press conference. 
“Our guys hung in there and 
ﬁ  gured out how to win the game,” he said. “Maybe it’s crazy, but I’m a ﬁ  rm believer in you ﬁ  gure out how to win. That’s what it’s all about.”
At a school that 
measures success on the scale of Steve Spurrier and Urban Meyer, that constant need for validation and emphasis on win-ning clutch games seems reason-able. Because despite claiming consecutive division crowns, an 
increasingly louder group of Flor-
ida fans wants McElwain ﬁ  red. One fan even started a GoFund-Me page to pay for his $20-mil-lion buyout that, as of publica-tion, had raised $107 and been shared 20 times. 
But when McElwain brags 
that his team ﬁ  nds a way to win, 
it’s not talk. It’s backed up with 
numbers. So maybe that smug-ness is justiﬁ  ed after all. 
In his three years at UF, McEl-
wain has won nine of 10 games decided by one possession or less. That 90-percent mark dwarfs any recent Gators coach starting with Spurrier, who took over at Florida in 1990. 
Meyer is the best 
in the category with a 60-percent mark, while Spurrier is close 
behind at 59 percent. 
Granted, McEl-
wain’s sample size 
is much smaller than Meyer’s and Spurri-er’s. But there’s more 
to it than raw percentages. 
In addition to winning 90 per-
cent of one-possession games, 
33 percent of McElwain’s total 
games at UF have been decided by one possession. That’s nearly twice Spurrier’s percentage (19) and beats Meyer’s (25) as well. 
In simpler terms, McElwain 
is playing in a lot of close games and winning almost all of them, while Spurrier and Meyer were 
more likely to blow teams out. 
He’s used that fact to claim legiti-macy to Florida’s coaching throne when his team hasn’t passed the eye test. And for now, it’s enough to keep players happy and fans (mostly) appeased. 
“A win’s a win,” defensive 
tackle Taven Bryan said follow-ing Saturday’s game. “Honestly, we’d like to just dominate so people can go home. But I ain’t complaining. I’ll take it.”
But in statistics, numbers usu-
ally regress to the mean. If you measure UF’s next 10 one-pos-session games, it’s unlikely McEl-wain will win nine of them again. They’re just too unpredictable. 
He’d probably say it’s just the 
makeup of his team to be clutch, and many of his players agree. But again, it’s about probability. 
When you play that many close 
games, you’re bound to lose some of them. Even someone as accomplished as Spurrier barely won more than half of them. 
So should McElwain be smug 
about his team being “clutch” right now? Absolutely. He’s earned it. Will that clutchness 
continue? 
Probably not. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. 
Keep an eye out for his next col-
umn by following him on Twitter 
@ebaueri. You can contact him at 
ebauer@alligator.org.
McElwain is the luckiest coach in recent Florida football historySweet and Bauer / Opinion
SOCCER
Mayra Pelayo squared up an Alabama 
defender on the right wing and darted to-
ward the end line. She played a cross, try-
ing to pick out one of multiple teammates in the box.
But Pelayo’s ball never made it to a fel-
low Gator. The Crimson Tide’s Kayla Mou-ton directed the cross away from the center 
of the box, but toward her own goal. The 
redirect snuck past goalkeeper Kat Stratton on her near post and Mouton covered her 
face in frustration.
The goal credited to Pelayo was UF’s 
second in as many minutes, as the Gators (8-2) bounced back from their midweek de-
feat, toppling the Crimson Tide 3-0 with a second-half surge on Sunday at UF's James 
G. Pressly Stadium.Rose leads UF 
in 3-0 shutout 
over Alabama
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2017
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1night...be the senior that you are.”
Florida was able to offset a huge game 
by Victoria, who entered the contest lead-
ing the nation in kills and points.
“She’s the real deal,” Wise said.
Victoria had a match-high 30 kills, along 
with seven digs and a pair of service aces.
Snyder (17 kills, 14 digs, 4 blocks), Al-hassan (20 kills, 6 blocks) and freshman Paige Hammons (11 kills, 9 digs) kept the Gators aﬂ  oat as they struggled to pull away 
on the road.
Arkansas’ .253 hitting percentage was 
the best performance by a Gators opponent 
this season.
Florida was ranked sixth in the country 
in opponents’ hitting percentage heading into the match, holding eight teams to an average of just .123.Sophomore Rachael Kramer and red-
shirt senior Shainah Joseph combined for 14 kills and 10 blocks, and senior Caroline 
Knop led all players with 23 digs.
Sophomore Reagan Robinson had 12 
kills for Arkansas, and freshmen Hai-
ley Dirrigl and Elizabeth Pamphile added seven kills apiece in the Razorbacks’ ﬁ  rst 
home loss this season.
Florida is now 40-3 all time against Ar-
kansas, and will have a chance to extend that lead when the teams meet again on 
Nov. 10 in Gainesville.
Next up for the Gators is a home date 
with Tennessee on Friday at 7:30.
A radio broadcast contributed to this re-
port.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org VOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Florida is now 40-3 in all-time series against the Razorbacks
“That’s a bit of backbreaker,” Gators 
coach Becky Burleigh said of the deﬂ  ection. 
“That’s tough to give up a goal out of half-
time, but to give up two that’s really tough.” 
The ﬁ  rst half may have been scoreless, 
but the Crimson Tide (8-3-1) controlled the opening passage of play.
Alabama kept the ball in UF’s third of the 
ﬁ  eld for large stints, earning three corners 
to Florida’s zero. The Tide also outshot the 
Gators 5-3.
UF’s best chance in the ﬁ  rst half came on 
a 25th-minute breakaway by Deanne Rose. As the freshman forward was being chased by two Tide defenders, surged into Ala-
bama's box only to have her shot blocked 
by a sprawling Stratton.
Aside from Rose’s opportunity, Florida 
was silenced by the Crimson Tide’s ﬁ  rst-half defense. The Gators’ only other shots came on two ambitious free kick attempts by cap-tain Gabby Seiler.
However, Florida dominated the second 
half from the opening whistle.
“We stood off them too far, especially in 
the ﬁ  rst 25 minutes. We let them kind of do what they wanted and they looked pretty good,” Burleigh said. “Then we put them 
under some pressure. Once we started put-
ting that pressure on, all of a sudden that generated some of our offense.”
After winning its ﬁ  rst corner of the match 
in the 50th minute, UF converted the set piece into the game's opening goal. Rose’s header on the Brianna Solis service was 
poorly dealt with by Stratton, getting past 
the keeper to give the Gators a 1-0 lead.
One minute later, Pelayo added another 
goal to help the team double its lead.
With the two-goal advantage, Florida 
was able to sit back on defense and look for 
opportunities to counter.
And in the 76th minute, Rose did exactly 
that when she scored her second goal of the game. The goal was the freshman's ﬁ  fth in 
the last three games, and her performance was her second multi-goal game in the last 
three as well.
“I have a sigh of relief every time I score,” 
Rose said. “I know that it can happen, but it’s just the execution and ﬁ  nally it’s begin-
ning to come through.”
With the match in hand, the UF defense 
marshaled the remainder of the match into a shutout for the ﬁ  fth time this season.
“We needed a bounce back game for 
sure,” Burleigh said. “I think it showed some resilience on our team. And especially how we started the game, to get out of that 
mid-game. That was important.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14Rose has scored ive goals over her last three games for UF
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Deanne Rose notched two goals for the Gators on Sunday in a 3-0 win over Alabama.
