We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 2 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
Column: Are fans too hard on 
Del Rio?
After going 5-1 as a starter last season, the 
QB is ﬁ  ghting to keep his job, pg. 14
GAU, UF continue negotiations
Negotiations were supposed to end in June, pg 5.
We scream for rolled ice cream
A new rolled ice cream store to open near Butler Plaza, pg 3. FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Jimena T avel 
and Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writers
Nine-year-old Ian Sousa was 
so excited to see the solar eclipse 
Monday, he puked the night be-
fore.
“It was super cool,” he said, 
adding he wants to be a scientist 
when he grows up.
Sousa was one of about a thou-
sand people who visited the UF Campus Teaching Observatory 
south of the Reitz Union on Sweet-
water Drive to glance at the par-
tial solar eclipse, which took place from 1:15 p.m. to 4:11 p.m. The 
last solar eclipse seen from the U.S. 
was 38 years ago; the next event is 
in 2024, according to CNN.
The UF Department of Astron-
omy stocked the observatory with 60 pairs of eclipse glasses and four 
telescopes with proper solar ﬁ  lters.
Andrea Miranda got to the ob-
servatory at 10 a.m. and stood in 
line for about three hours. The UF 
international relations graduate 
student was disappointed when she found out she couldn’t keep 
the glasses.
“I think they should’ve gotten 
more glasses, but I also understand 
they didn’t have the resources 
— this is practically a shed,” the 
22-year-old said about the observa-tory. 
Simon Lambert, a UF civil engi-neering freshman, panicked when 
he found out a week ago about 
the eclipse because he didn’t own 
eclipse glasses. He tried Walmart and Lowe’s, but they were sold out. He tried Amazon, but he only 
found some selling for $119.
The 18-year-old discovered a College of Engineering advisor was 
giving away pairs at Weil Hall on 
Monday morning and got his pair 
to use at the observatory. “This is a pretty monumental 
day for me,” Lambert said. “First 
day of college and ﬁ  rst eclipse.” 
UF applied physiology and ki-
nesiology junior Danielle Diaz said UF should have canceled classes for the event or at least prepared 
better for it. She said she wishes the university would have made 
more places available to watch the eclipse and bought more glasses for students.
The 20-year-old said she wished 
UF would have organized a large 
pep rally at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadi-
um and given everyone glasses.
“We could’ve experienced it all 
together,” Diaz said.
Kelly Gallagher, a UF explor-
atory sophomore, said she doesn’t 
think UF should have canceled 
classes.
“It’s not like it’s a national holi-
day,” the 19-year-old said. “It’s 
great that they’re doing (this event 
at the observatory).”
Across the street from campus, 
at The Swamp Restaurant, located at 1642 W. University Ave., Britta-
ny Avery, a 28-year-old Gainesville 
resident, was one of 100 people who ordered a Blue Moon beer at 
The Swamp’s Solar Eclipse View-
ing Soiree.
“It’s a great spot to look up, 
just wait and eat food and have a 
drink,” she said. 
The event attracted about 500 Staring where the sun don’t shine 
The solar eclipse was visible for three hours
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Will Harris (left), a UF political science junior,  20, gazes at the eclipse with friends Rebecca Verrastro (mid-
dle), a UF zoology junior, 20, and Anton Dolling (right), a UF linguistics and Spanish junior, 20. 
SEE ECLIPSE,  PAGE 4
FITNESS CLASSES IN 
MULTIPLE LANGUAGES 
ARE ALSO OFFERED.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Reopening to students this 
Fall, Southwest Recreation Cen-
ter has unveiled its newly remod-eled weight room and introduced two new classes. 
The renovation, which re-
placed the uneven ﬂ  ooring of the old weight room, cost $180,000. The money did not come from student fees, said Marty Dempsey, the assistant director for facility operations. 
The renovation was complet-ed in 10 days between the end of the Summer B semester and the 
start of Fall, Dempsey said. 
“We took the opportunity to 
arrange for new ﬂ  ooring, mostly 
for the safety, but we also wanted to maintain the quality and look of the weight room,” Dempsey said. 
Kaitlin Deidrick, a 20-year-old 
biology junior, said she often lifts 
weights at Southwest Rec.
“Honestly, since they mainly 
just changed the ﬂ  oor, it doesn’t 
affect me at all,” she said. “I think it just makes the weight room look nicer.”
RecSports also added a medi-
tation class and a center barre class, which is a combination of 
ballet and strength training, said Leah Shelley, the assistant direc-
tor for ﬁ  tness programs.
Shelley said the new format 
for group ﬁ  tness classes is to of-fer them in eight languages. The classes are available upon re-quest. 
Dempsey said offering classes 
in multiple languages will help the large number of UF students who do not speak English as their 
ﬁ  rst language. 
“Anything we can do to ex-
tend service to make people feel 
invited and comfortable within our spaces, we’re going to work to do that,” Dempsey said. 
cmorales@alligator.org
@Christina_M18RecSports adds two classes, 
remodels Southwest Recreation
APARTMENT MANAGEMENT 
HAS HIRED CLEANING 
SERVICES.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer 
Herman Younger moved into his 
apartment at The Pavilion on 62nd on 
Friday and didn’t recognize the man sleeping on his couch.
The UF political science junior 
promptly left the apartment, located at 1000 SW 62nd Blvd., the next day and terminated his lease. Students moving into the apartments in Fall 2016 also had issues, according to Alligator archives.
For Younger, the unwanted guest 
wasn’t his only problem. The 21-year-old said his apartment didn’t look like the model he was shown when he signed his lease in Spring. He found leaves and dirt on his apartment ﬂ  oor 
— which was supposed to be wood, not 
carpet.
He waited in a line from 11 a.m. to 
5 p.m. in the leasing ofﬁ  ce to complain and met other residents with problems in their apartments.
“We were all discussing (it), and ev-
eryone had an issue,” he said. “Since they opened, there was a line of com-
plaints. 
Since Younger left his lease at Pavil-
ion, he has slept on a friend’s couch. His 
belongings ﬁ  ll his car, and he doesn’t know where he will move.Again, Pavilion residents 
complain of move-in
SEE PAVILION,  PAGE 4WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
‘One City, One Story’ ‘1984’ 
Book Club 
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
is hosting a book club for 
George Orwell’s novel, “1984,” on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the Hippodrome basement, lo-
cated at 25 SE Second Place. 
Wine and appetizers will be provided, and the event is for adults, seniors and students. The Hippodrome is hosting the 
play “1984” from Sept. 1 to 
Sept. 24.  
Gay Movie Night 
The Pride Community Center 
of North Central Florida is 
having its Gay Movie Night on Friday at 7:30 p.m. The movie is “Chicken Tikka Masala,” which tells the story of Jimi, 
a doctor from Lancashire who 
isn’t courageous enough to tell his family of his love for an-other man, Jack, after they ar-
range his marriage to a young 
woman. The Pride Community Center is located at 3131 NW 13th St., and a $2 donation is requested to cover the cost of 
snacks. 
Free Concert Series: The 
Shambles Classic Rock 
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department is continuing its free concert series Friday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. at Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave. The series is held every Friday until Oct. 20.
Learn to Tango 
The Argentine Tango Club is hosting free tango classes for all levels Sunday in Dance Studio A, located in the base-
ment of the Reitz Union. A 
beginner lesson begins at 6:15 p.m., followed by an interme-diate and advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Dress comfortably. 
No special shoes are required. 
For questions, visit facebook.com/groups/uftango. 
Taco Tuesdays at Swamp Head 
BrewerySwamp Head Brewery is part-nering with Cilantro Tacos to bring tacos each and ev-
ery Tuesday at the brewery. 
Cilantro will be here doling out tacos and other food each Tuesday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista Joshua Broadhead, who goes by Mestrando Mico, on 
Sundays from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
for Brazilian Martial Arts class-es on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot 
Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@gmail.com.Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event in July and August. 
The gallery features hundreds 
of quality, handcrafted fine arts and crafts created by re-gional artists. The event will 
be held at the gallery, located 
at 201 SW Second Place. For more information, call 352-378-1383 or visit artisansguild-gallery.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 2
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor Michael Smith, 
michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Drellinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
August 26, 2017
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 21 thru 
Friday August 25
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
POLICE FOUND HIM 
ASLEEP BEHIND 
THE WHEEL AT 
AN INTERSECTION.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested early Monday 
morning and faces a DUI charge after Uni-
versity Police found him on campus sleep-
ing in his car’s driver’s seat, police said.
Ofﬁ  cers found Sean Paul Reed, a 
20-year-old UF business junior, slumped over his car’s center console at 
about 5:12 a.m. at the intersection of Gale Le-merand Drive and Ar-
cher Road, according to 
an arrest report. 
The car was in drive, but Reed’s foot was rested on the brake, ac-
cording to the report.
When police woke Reed up and asked 
him to put the car in park, he tried driv-ing away for a short distance but eventually 
stopped and opened the door, according to the report. 
Reed performed poorly on ﬁ  eld sobriety 
tests, and police also found a small pipe with marijuana residue in the car, accord-
ing to the report. Reed was then brought to 
the Alachua County Jail at about 6:30 a.m. 
At the jail, Reed refused to provide a 
breath sample, according to the report. 
He was released Tuesday afternoon on 
his own recognizance and faces charges of 
possession of drug paraphernalia and DUI. 
Reed declined to comment on the inci-
dent without his lawyer present. 
dhoffman@alligator.org 
@hoffdavid123UF student arrested for DUI, 
drug possession, police said
STUDENTS QUESTIONED 
THE ABILITIES OF THE BLACK 
STUDENT UNION.
By Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer
At a discussion about recent displays of 
white supremacy, students turn the questions 
back on the host. 
About 300 students gathered in the Reitz 
Union Rion Ballroom for a discussion hosted by the Black Student Union. The talk let students 
discuss the Charlottesville, Virginia, riots and Richard Spencer, a white supremacist who in-tended to speak at UF. 
Dwayne Fletcher, a UF agricultural educa-
tion and communication senior and the presi-dent of BSU, moderated the discussion.
Students in the audience questioned Fletcher 
about how quickly BSU’s president could get in 
touch with UF President Kent Fuchs and what 
the organization would do to ensure its mem-bers felt safe on campus.
Fletcher said if he needed to contact Fuchs, 
he would ﬁ  rst get in touch with Vice President 
of Student Affairs David Parrott.
Fletcher told attendees that student organi-
zations, including the Hispanic Student Asso-
ciation and the Asian American Student Union, 
are working on initiatives to unite students on campus.
When asked further questions about the 
project, Fletcher said he couldn’t release details 
until they become ofﬁ  cial.
Kayla Rodney, a UF doctoral student study-
ing English, said the meeting was productive 
because it served as a safe space for students to 
talk about how they feel.
She said the meeting’s effectiveness will not 
be known until later in the semester. 
“We need to see what happens in the com-
ing months to measure the effectiveness of it,” 
Rodney said. “If something does change, then 
we’ll know.” 
jtavel@alligator.org
@taveljimenaBlack UF students share fears, 
plan response to racism
Reed
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
A new rolled ice cream business will 
sweeten summer when its doors ﬁ  rst open 
Tuesday.
Atlanta-based 8 Fahrenheit Ice Cream 
is setting up its ﬁ  rst Florida shop at 2905 
42nd St., said Aakash Shah, the owner of the rolled ice cream business. Shah said a grand opening will be held Sept. 14 and 
will include a ribbon-cutting ceremony, 
free ice cream and special promotions last-ing through Sept. 17. 
The store will give away free ice cream 
after the grand opening ceremony at 5:30 p.m. and continue offering 50 percent off for students, free ice cream for kids 
12-years-old and under and free T-shirts through Sept. 17, Shah  said.
The new store will compete with 
Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst rolled ice cream loca-
tion, Mr. Cool Ice Cream, located at 1025 W. University Ave. 
The 8 Fahrenheit store, opening near 
Butler Plaza, will have six ice cream ﬂ  a-vors and over 20 toppings, as well as 15 preset menu items, Shah said. The store’s selected menu items include “Matcha 
Lady,” a matcha green tea ice cream mixed 
with strawberry; “8F Latte,” made from coffee brewed daily; and cheesecake. Ice 
cream will be sold as one size for $5.50 
plus tax, with three free toppings. 
Jessika Ruman, a UF wildlife ecology 
and conservation junior, said she plans to attend the grand opening and savor the free rolled ice cream.
“Everybody likes sweet things, espe-
cially when they’re stressing for classes,” the 20-year-old said. 
jgiles@alligator.org
@jessica_giles_New rolled ice cream store to open
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
PICKING POSTERS
Andrew Brodsky, a UF civil engineering sophomore, browses through posters at 
the Reitz Union poster sale on Tuesday. Brodsky said he was “just checking it out, seeing if they had anything new. ”4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
people, which caused the 
keepsake pint glasses to run out 
three hours after The Swamp 
opened at 11 a.m., said Branam Cohn, the restaurant’s director of 
operations. The eclipse glasses dis-
appeared even faster, running out five minutes into the event. The Swamp also had food and drink 
specials all day including $3 draft beers, $6.50 rum cocktails and $9 chicken tender baskets. 
“We care about the community, 
and we want to provide a fun, safe place to get legitimate glasses and view a partial solar eclipse,” Cohn 
said. “It was really a no-brainer for us.”
Despite an overcast sky, the pa-
tio of The Swamp was overflowing with people looking up at the solar anomaly. Some people, like UF bi-
ology senior Erick Boldt, expected 
the sky to be darker at 2:47 p.m., 
the peak of the partial solar eclipse.Although the 21-year-old wasn’t 
able to score a pair of free view-
ing glasses from the event, it didn’t 
stop him from stealing a look at the sky while munching on “Macho 
Nachos.”
“I did peek and look at the sun 
with my eyes,” he said. “I’m not 
blind yet.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgECLIPSE,  from pg. 1The eclipse’s peak was at 2:47 p.m.
“I still have no home,” he said.
The Pavilion’s spokesperson, Bob 
Hetherington, said the man sleeping on Younger’s couch was a room-mate, but Younger said he knows 
who his roommates were. Hether-
ington said other reported issues have been exaggerated. In one case, a resident said they found blood on their bathroom floor; Hetherington said it was red nail polish or hair dye.
“When residents move out, there 
is a short window for cleaning staff 
and sometimes this happens,” he said. “This isn’t done intentionally.”
Hetherington said  management 
is working on resolving residents’ 
complaints.
“To address the issue, manage-
ment of The Pavilion has brought 
in additional vendors, cleaners, car-
pet layers and other professionals to make things right as quickly as pos-sible,” he said.
Last year, residents at The Pavil-
ion complained about rodents and bad smells after The Pavilion said their cleaning service hadn’t com-pleted setting up new apartments, 
according to Alligator archives. Kat-
lin Ruppel, a Sante Fe nursing gradu-ate, bought a new mattress for her Pavilion apartment last year because she said the mattress provided was old and stained. Ruppel, 24, said when she complained of broken door handles, mix-matched wall col-
ors and cockroaches, the leasing of-
fice wasn’t responsive. 
“It was just a horrible experience 
living there,” she said. “It’s really sad that people are going through what I went through last year. I re-ally hoped it would have changed.”
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
PAVILION,  from pg. 1A spokesperson disputed the claims THEY ALSO DISCUSSED 
SG VISIBILITY DURING 
CAMPUS CONTROVERSY. 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government senators 
began the Fall semester by sup-
porting UF President Kent Fuch’s decision to prevent white nation-alist Richard Spencer from renting space on campus.
Brett Oehrle (Impact, District 
B) said he decided to write the bill 
after seeing students complaining 
about it through posts on social 
media and letters to the editor in 
the Alligator.
“It was clear students were 
upset about his potential visit to 
campus,” Oehrle said. “I thought 
it was important for SG to reiterate 
we condemn hate speech.”
Zachariah Chou (Independent, 
Infinity) raised questions about 
SG’s visibility. He said he only saw 
one senator at the student march 
supporting two separate buildings 
for the Institute of Black Culture 
and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures in July. 
Chou also said SG didn’t release 
a statement regarding Spencer’s potential visit to UF.
“There’s a lot of room for sena-
tors to become activists for what 
they believe in, but most are not doing it,” Chou said. 
UF Student Body President 
Smith Meyers said SG had been 
advocating for students by hearing 
their concerns and relaying them to UF administrators. 
Chou said Meyers should be 
more transparent. He said SG should release more statements on social media as issues are debated, instead of after they’re resolved. 
“Lots of things the Senate does 
seem reactive, rather than proac-tive,” Chou said.
Meyers said his office would 
look into using social media more 
often.
Senators also passed a resolu-
tion written by the disability ad-
vocacy committee congratulating UF’s Disability Resource Center for 
their hard work. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgSG Student Senate 
supports FuchsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
IT WILL NOW BE A 
SEMESTER LONG.
Camille Respess
Staff Writer
After last year’s popular-
ity, the Latino Educational Ad-
vancement Program, or LEAP, is expanding.
Sponsored by Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs, LEAP aims to support first-year His-panic and Latino students through workshops and by pairing them with undergradu-ate and graduate student men-tors. 
LEAP’s first five-week pro-
gram ran in Spring with 17 stu-
dents enrolled and 10 mentors. 
LEAP’s second class is pro-jected to have 35 students and 24 mentors. Instead of being five weeks long, it’s expanding to the full semester. A kickoff event for the program will be at the Hispanic-Latino Affairs office in the Reitz Union  on 
Wednesday at 6 p.m. 
Although LEAP targets His-
panic and Latino students, any 
first-year student at UF is able to register for the program, said Jessica Valdes, LEAP’s as-sistant coordinator of external affairs. Registration closes on 
Sept. 1. 
The workshops aim to in-
form participating students 
about the resources and indi-viduals available to help them during their time at UF. 
“By giving them all these re-
sources and creating a network with their peers, along with dif-
ferent faculty and staff, this will 
create a cohort of support to get them to graduation,” said Gabe Lara, the director of Hispanic-Latino Affairs. 
Karina Vado, one of LEAP’s 
three coordinators, wrote in an email that, as a first-generation Latina student, she didn’t have 
resources available to help her 
when she first entered higher education. Vado, a third-year UF English doctoral student, said a program like LEAP would have helped her get ac-quainted with the university quicker. 
“Broadly speaking, I want, 
as the coordinator, for our LEAP scholars to not only aca-demically succeed, but also feel as though they have a home away from home,” she said. 
LEAP also aims to improve 
the retention rates of Hispanic 
and Latino students at UF. The 
university’s retention rate for students of all ethnicities was 96 percent in Fall 2016, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando.
Orlando said the university 
does not track retention rates by specific ethnicity.
According to a 2014 Pew 
Research Center study, 15 per-cent of Hispanics and Latinos in the U.S. attained a four-year degree or higher. 
In addition to creating net-
works for student success, Lara believes LEAP will support his goal of making UF a Hispanic-serving institution, where the 
university would have at least 
25 percent of its students iden-tifying as Hispanic or Latino. Out of UF’s population, 17.39 percent of students identified as Hispanic or Latino in Fall 2016, Orlando said. 
“This program would be a 
great way to move toward that 
goal,” Lara said.
crespess@alligator.org
@camille_respess
First-year program for Hispanic 
and Latino students expands
Romy Ellenbogen
Staff Writer
After nearly two months of waiting, UF 
and the Graduate Assistants United labor 
union met to discuss raises. 
Stipend raises are the final piece of 
GAU’s three-year contract, which has yet 
to be settled. The initial deadline for the 
contract was in June, but negotiations were extended when UF gave a “place-holder” offer without finalized numbers, according to Alligator archives. 
Bill Connellan, UF’s chief negotiator, 
said UF gave time for each department to look into what comparable universities pay and then submit a payment request. 
In the counterproposal presented Tues-
day afternoon, UF offered lower stipend raises than GAU asked for but offered an additional $1 million to be split among de-partments. The $1 million would only be available in Fall 2018, Connellan said. 
“There’s a feeling among the president 
and the provost that they want to continue to escalate where we are in terms of grad 
students,” Connellan said. 
Paul Duncan, the graduate school’s 
senior associate dean, said the $1 million 
would help them bring in top candidates.
“I don’t think there’s anything magic 
about it,” he said. “A place like this needs to be competing head-to-head with our peer institutions, and one of the ways we can beat them is by how we pay our gradu-ate students.”
Bobby Mermer, GAU’s bargaining chair, 
said the $1 million is a red herring meant to distract the union from what they need — 
tangible stipend raises. 
“This million dollars they offered is not 
going to be benefiting any current employ-
ees,” he said. “None of us see a dime of this extra million dollars.” 
Mermer said he was disappointed with 
the offer and felt UF went back on their word. He said in previous discussions GAU was told it would get an offer at least equal 
to, if not higher than, what they proposed.  
GAU proposed a $800 stipend raise 
and a $16,000 minimum salary. On Tues-
day, UF countered with a $550 raise and a $15,000 minimum salary, but said the divided $1 million makes their proposal better than GAU’s request. Mermer said he doesn’t feel UF’s offer is actually better.
During the meeting, Mermer expressed 
concern the $1 million would be unevenly divided, with some departments getting the largest chunk of the money. He said he couldn’t sign off on the agreement without more information on the divisions. He ex-pects to have a counteroffer ready Friday. 
“We were promised an offer that was 
going to be at least as good as ours,” Merm-er said. “And that did not come to fruition.” 
rellenbogen@alligator.org
@romyellenbogenPast deadline, UF, GAU 
continue contract negotiationThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsKatelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith 
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORUF’s decision to ban Richard Spencer 
and his National Policy Institute from 
speaking on campus is a grave mistake, 
and one the university will come to re-gret. In a statement released last week, 
UF President Kent Fuchs defended his decision because of safety concerns. While the safety of those on campus is obviously a legitimate con-
cern, so is the concern of free speech, which has 
now been shunned as a result of this decision. 
It goes without saying that Spencer is a despi-
cable and racist individual whose views represent the worst ideas in society. His beliefs, and those of the NPI, are dis-gusting, bigoted and repugnant. However, it must be said 
that Spencer and his company certainly have a right to hold 
these views.
As a believer in absolute free speech, it is my duty to de-
fend one’s right to free speech in any and all circumstances, regardless of whether I agree or disagree with the speaker’s views. If you support the university’s decision to deny Spen-
cer, I invite you to entertain the following solution: Do not at-
tend, and do not protest his speech. As it is, the cancellation has given Spencer more national media coverage than his 
speech alone ever would have. This is precisely what these 
white supremacist groups feed off of — attention. By attend-ing or actively protesting Spencer’s speech, you are giving 
him the attention that he craves. The truth is, Spencer and 
his sympathizers represent a fringe group in America despite what the media would have you believe. 
Furthermore, it is the duty of law enforcement in this 
country to defend the free speech rights of all individuals, regardless of what potential protests or violence may arise. 
If law enforcement cannot or will not protect Spencer’s right 
to speak, then whose speech will they protect? Speech from a speaker they deem decent? Or whose views they deem ac-
ceptable? 
Consider this: In 2016 alone, campuses across the country 
banned several notable speakers for threats of violence. But these speakers weren’t Richard Spencer or David Duke. They were conservatives such as Ann Coulter, Milo 
Yiannopoulos, Ben Shapiro and, yes, even U.S. 
Attorney General Jeff Sessions. These conserva-
tives were met with protests, and in some cases riots, simply because they articulate viewpoints 
that college liberals disagree with. Even here at 
UF, some students were very vocal in their op-position of allowing Shapiro to speak on campus 
because he was a purveyor of “hate speech.” 
While it is true that security is a legitimate 
concern for Spencer’s proposed visit to campus, 
it is also true that the announcement of his visit was met with 
opposition. From planned protests on Facebook to emails and calls to UF, UF has given the appearance that it has caved to 
the heckler’s veto. This act undeniably sets a precedent and a 
message for future campus speakers. If hecklers and protest-ers object enough, then speech won’t be protected. 
We have seen campus liberals across the country dem-
onstrate an unwillingness to differentiate a conservative from a racist. In fact, they would rather make the two syn-
onymous. At UF alone, I’ve seen students who have worn 
“Make America Great Again” hats labeled racists. I’ve also seen advocates of a stronger immigration policy labeled big-
ots in a class lecture. So how can we trust the masses to be 
responsible enough to make an obvious distinction between Spencer, a racist, and Coulter, for example, a conservative? 
The truth is, we can’t. How do we know that a conservative 
won’t be banned the next time that they come to UF, regard-less of whether protests or violence might occur? We don’t. 
Any student body that attempts to equate conservatives with 
racists while also attempting to ban racists clearly has im-mense power in determining who is and who isn’t allowed 
to speak on campus. That should alarm everyone, no matter 
where you fall on the political spectrum. For this reason, the university should reconsider its decision to deny Spencer. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Editorial
Healthy habits 
start now
College students are notoriously unhealthy and lazy 
individuals. 
Stereotypically, we are thought to dine on nothing 
but Ramen noodles laced with sodium and Pop-Tarts oozing with outrageous amounts of sugar. When it 
comes to physical activity, some consider their 15 minute walk to class sufficient movement for the day. To the typical college student, these examples might not seem too bad. To health-nuts like us, they are alarming.
Whether or not these unfavorable assumptions about col-
lege students are accurate when it comes to your own self care, the start of a new semester is the perfect time to reevalu-ate the way you take care of yourself.
Most college students are twenty-somethings with speedy 
metabolisms and naturally flawless skin. We can bounce back from a night of binge-drinking like it never happened, and our waistlines don’t bolster a centimeter when we finish an entire pizza by ourselves. While this is great for right now, we can’t live that way forever without reaping serious consequences.
A lot of young people don’t see a need to eat healthy or ex-
ercise regularly because their bodies don’t react to the effects of unhealthy living. Why waste time exercising if you’re al-ready thin? Why pass up a chocolate cupcake when you know the sugar isn’t going to make you break out or leave you with unappealing cellulite on your legs? It’s easy to understand the reasoning behind the way a lot of college students take care of themselves.
Even though most of us don’t technically need to worry 
about our health at such a young age, we do need to think about our futures. Just like we are working hard in our classes to secure a good job in the future, we need to work hard to cre-ate healthy habits so we can continue them when we need to.
According to Psychology Today, habits you develop early 
in life are hard to change. This means if you grew up eating healthy and exercising regularly, you are likely to continue those trends as you age and less likely to pick up unhealthy habits like drinking soda or eating fried foods. It also means, however, that if you rarely engage in physical activity and of-ten eat unhealthy foods, it will be harder for you to drop these bad habits and harder for you to pick up healthy ones.
Besides the effect it has on your physical appearance, un-
healthy eating and a lack of exercise can lead to life threaten-ing diseases like diabetes. You are also likely to develop nega-tive health complications like high blood pressure and high blood sugar. 
The scary reality of leading an unhealthy life is often not 
taken seriously by young people, and although it might not hurt them now, it will further down the road. This is why we want to encourage you, dear reader, to rethink your self-care habits this semester. 
Try to eat your five fruits and vegetables a day and avoid 
fast food. Try to exercise every now and then or even just park your car a little farther from your destination so you can get in more movement. Try to actively consider your future when you eat a meal or take yet another “lazy day.”
It might seem far off, but the way we are going to live as 
adults starts now, and we need to start planning for it.I disagree with Fuchs’ decision to reject Richard Spencer
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
Music fans unable to attend 
this year’s III Points Festival in 
Miami should look no further than one of the four cities host-ing its own prologue to the main event. From aesthetic to music to a vibe only electronic music lovers can summon when danc-ing side by side, the Road to III Points will give attendees a taste of what the three-day affair in Oc-tober holds. 
III Points Festival was founded 
as a Miami-based music experi-ence by UF alum David Sinopoli in 2014. This year’s pre-festival tour begins on the Florida State University campus Friday at Club Downunder and will travel to Gainesville’s The Florida Theater 
and Realm, located at 233 W. Uni-
versity Ave., on Saturday, then to Fort Lauderdale and Orlando on Sept. 1 and Sept. 9, respectively.
Each year, III Points partners 
with local promoters, venues and organizations in each city to pro-duce each event. This year’s stop in Gainesville, an undervalued hub for electronic and indepen-
dent music, is once again spear-
headed in part by Over Easy Cre-ative’s Les Voss.
Voss began Over Easy Creative 
in 2014 when he put together a lineup of Gainesville-based artists for a small-scale music festival 
at an old college town stomping 
ground, The Jam. 
Voss has taken the company 
to new heights by teaming up 
with the creators of III Points for a third year, having hosted past Road to III Points events at The Jam in 2015 and Visionary Cross-fit in 2016. This year’s venue will 
hold a larger capacity than be-
fore, an exciting accomplishment for Voss and his partners. 
“I’m amazed every day at how 
much Over Easy has grown since we started as a single art and music festival at The Jam,” Voss said. “It’s really surreal to me, and I’m excited to keep pushing 
the envelope with the artists and 
parties we host.”
The Gainesville lineup features 
local acts from Miami that will be playing at the festival Oct. 13 to Oct. 15, and local supporting acts curated by Over Easy Creative, 
Swamp Records and Lucid Night-
life, each organization bringing 
one act that is aligned with the III Points brand. One of the three is 
Voss himself. 
“Having Retrolux on board (as 
a local supporting act) felt like an 
obvious fit, with their electronic based live set,” Voss said. “They have a huge reach and Anna of Retrolux has attended both of the past Road to III Points events, so the fact that this is the first time they’re performing is very excit-ing. Also, Side Trakd has some-thing special planned and will 
offer a more traditional DJ set.”
Of the featured talents giving 
Gainesville a preview of what 
will come in October, Nick León is a significant highlight.  
León began producing mu-
sic when his brother gifted him with production software when he was 12 years old. Eleven years later, Voss calls him “the best producer coming out of Miami right now.” He has produced for Denzel Curry and POORgrrrl, and recently started his own label, Space Tapes, Voss said.
León stays humble despite his 
years of experience over most of his contemporaries. 
“I would say participating in 
the industry for the last couple of years is learning experience after learning experience. You learn how to talk to people, how to ar-ticulate your vision and sound,” León said. “III Points to me is always a chance to showcase yourself and show peers how far you’ve come in the last year. It’s exciting but also nerve-wrack-ing.”
León recently helped score the 
film “Beach Rats,” which debuted at Sundance Film Festival and will be released Friday. He will be playing on the main stage at III Points again this year.
Previewing their work along-
side León at Gainesville’s Road to 
III Points are Ascendants, Jeremy 
Ismael, Skeleton Boy, Sinopoli, 
True Vine and DJ THPS.
Tickets for Road to III Points: 
Gainesville can be purchased for $7 at eventbrite.com and for $10 at the door. Doors open at 9 p.m. at The Florida Theater and Realm.
Road to III Points Festival to hit Gainesville this weekend Somewhere in the midst of my junior year at UF, I decided to adopt a dog on a whim (this part of the story I don’t recommend). 
The part I do recommend is adopting or 
fostering a dog. Let’s face it: Half of us are lonely, and dogs offer unconditional love without any sort of hesitation.
According to the American Society for 
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, about 3.3 million dogs and 3.2 million cats end up in shelters each year. Out of that number, 670,000 dogs and 860,000 cats are eutha-nized. This probably isn’t news to you, but 
maybe it’s time you do something about it.
Although college can be a great time to go 
out and do crazy things, it also can be a time 
where you feel alone and overridden with 
anxiety. This is where shelter dogs come in. 
They too feel lost and confused sometimes. 
They’ve either dedicated their entire lives 
to a family, only to get thrown out when something happens, or they’ve 
lived their entire lives shifting from one place to the next. Yet still 
they open their hearts to us.
In our case, a good portion of 
us are scrambling in hopes that we 
pass our classes, enjoy college and get a job somewhere after gradu-ation. Amid all of this, we forget. We forget to brush our hair, bring our lunches and, most impor-tantly, take care of ourselves, especially our mental well-being.
I’m not saying you should go out and 
adopt the first dog you see and hope it cures your anxiety, but I am saying that having an animal, like a dog, whose sole purpose is to 
make you smile, might help you as you try 
to make your way through your time at UF.
A dog, unlike the person you just met sit-
ting next to you on your first day, will be there for you every night, jumping 
to lick your face, regardless of how poorly you did on your chemistry 
exam. They have this way of for-
giving you even if you’ve been es-pecially terrible, because, to them, you are their world. They don’t see your flaws; they only see the amazing and beautiful pieces of you.
If you’ve made it this far and 
I’ve got you thinking about adopting or fos-tering a dog, but you’re concerned about fi-
nances, there is a silver lining. In some cas-
es, there is a very small charge, or no charge 
at all. For example, if you choose to adopt an older dog, usually fees aren’t as expensive 
as with a puppy. Or, if you adopt a dog on 
special weekends, an adoption fee is often 
waived.
If your long-term goals are foggy, or if you’re still not certain if a dog is right for 
you, fostering is a great option. In most cas-es in Alachua County, fosters only have to 
provide their home and love for their foster 
dogs; things like food and medical attention are provided by the adoption agency. 
I’m not spewing on about this just be-
cause I love dogs (although I really do love dogs). I’m writing this because shelter dogs of all shapes and sizes are here for us, so we might as well be there for them, too. 
As John Grogan, a famous journalist, said, 
“Such short little lives our pets have to spend 
with us, and they spend most of it waiting 
for us to come home each day. It is amaz-
ing how much love and laughter they bring into our lives and even how much closer we 
become with each other because of them.”
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.
Could a dog be the cure to all your problems? Why not adopt?                    
Photo courtesy to the Alligator.
This weekend's Road to III Points festival will bring both Gainesville performers and III Points artists together for a night of 
music at The Florida Theater and Realm Nightclub.Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.org
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Gainesville’s own Always True 
Co. has partnered up with Best of 
Gainesville to present the ﬁ  rst ever Trueville Day Festival. 
Trueville promises the best 
of what Gainesville has to offer, featuring live music, local artists, food trucks and a half-pipe for skaters to enjoy. The festival will take place from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday at High Dive. The event is open to all ages, and tickets are available for $10 on Ticketﬂ  y through the Trueville Facebook 
event page. Those entering 21 and 
older will receive special wrist-bands that allow them to purchase alcohol.
“We want to be able to show-
case something cool and eclectic and appeal to the young people. Not just the students but young families as well,” said Best of 
Gainesville cofounder Trace Ru-
carean.
The festival has an extensive 
music lineup comprised of mostly local talent. Twelve’len, a Mi-ami R&B artist, will headline the event. Other artists scheduled to perform are DVWEZ, The Hails, No1, Jay, Victoria Vicary, Rucku$, 
Br3adgang Blazel, Thesbian, Jahlil 
Music, Phenix, Rezza, AMPH Stu-dios, Jahmil, DJ Klarc Shepard and Dunce Party.
“The music is really eclectic,” 
Rucarean said. “It’s hip-hop, it’s folk, it’s indie, it’s all over the place.”
Those who come out Sunday 
will be able to choose from three local favorites for food. The Ci-lantro Taco food truck will be out alongside David’s BBQ and Five Star Pizza. No entrance fee is re-quired for access to food vendors.
Work from select, hand-picked 
artists and vendors like Wunder-land Custom Tattoo and Natelle 
Draws Stuff will be on display. 
Live artist Sam Simon will per-form alongside scheduled musi-cal acts, creating a piece inspired by the music in real time. Simon has also worked alongside popu-lar California reggae band Rebe-lution. Throughout the event, Al-
ways True Co. will be live printing 
special event T-shirts for sale.
As a shoutout to the Gainesville 
skate crowd, Always True Co. and Best of Gainesville are bringing a mini half-pipe to be set up in the High Dive parking lot during the festival. The ramp is open to any-one with a board and will be run by Justin Smith of Spasm Skate-boards.
“Gainesville has such a big 
skate culture that people don’t re-ally know about … (the festival) is going to be a big swirling pot of different people from Gainesville,” head of music Jarrell Daniels (known by his artist name as No1) said. “Musicians from each genre are coming out, and then you have 
the food truck rally crowd who is 
coming, you have skaters who are coming, and people who enjoy art who are coming, and then High Dive regulars who are coming.”
Trueville is strategically placed 
on the calendar so it doesn’t com-pete with the Midtown scene, the Mayweather/McGregor ﬁ  ght or the “Game of Thrones” season ﬁ  nale, said Best of Gainesville co-founder Tyler Rucarean. After the event comes to a close, guests are invited to come out to World of Beer for a special “Game of Thrones”/”Rick 
and Morty” viewing party. Those 
wearing Trueville bands will re-ceive a special discount at World of Beer.  
Always True Co. was created 
by current and past UF students Drew Howard, Zim Howard and Kevin Masaro in the memory of the Howard boys’ brother. Brandon K. 
Howard used the stage name Al-
ways True, and his brothers have used the company to carry on his memory and legacy of living care-free and “just going for it,” Drew Howard said.
Best of Gainesville is the brain-
child of Tyler and Trace Rucarean. The brothers are ﬁ  nding unique 
ways to highlight what Gainesville 
has to offer new students and long-time residents. Best of Gainesville has worked with sev-eral Gainesville businesses and or-ganizations, but Trueville is their ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial event, Tyler Rucarean said.
“We try to showcase a glimpse 
of, what in our minds is, the best Gainesville really is.” Trace Rucar-ean said.
Trueville Day Festival set to be the ultimate Sunday fun-day 
Courtesy to the Alligator. 
Always True Co., a lifestyle and clothing brand company founded by former and current UF 
students, is teaming up with Best of Gainesville for Sunday’s festival. 
MUSICWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
CAREER FAIR
August 30, 2017
10am - 2pm
Jasmine Point Multipurpose Room
8000 NW 27 Blvd., Gainesville, FL 32606Please apply online
www.thevillageonline.com/careers
email: talentacquisAssisted Living and 
Home Health
Companions
Certified Nursing AssistantsNursesDining Services
Servers
Kitchen Porter
CookAdditional Open 
Position
Maintenance Supervisor
HousekeeperSecurity GuardTransportation Driver
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Pick up 
yourBy Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
At the end of August, Ed Sheeran 
will return to Florida, performing in 
three cities on the North American leg of his “Divide” tour. This comes as ex-citing news for fans who have not seen 
Sheeran perform live since 2012, as he 
overlooked Florida when touring the U.S. after the release of his sophomore album, “X” (pronounced “multiply”). 
In just over a week, Tampa will 
welcome Sheeran to the Amalie Arena on Tuesday, Miami will host him at the American Airlines Arena on Aug. 30 and the Amway Center in Orlando 
will bid him farewell Aug. 31.
For many, checking the set list to a 
concert feels like seeking out a spoiler. 
Having waited so long to see my favor-ite artist, I am hoping the songs he per-forms will cover all bases, making up for time and tours lost. Thus, I peeked, and I reviewed. 
“Castle on the Hill”: This song is a 
perfect opener. I expect its anecdotal quality and anthemic feel will create an atmosphere of escape, setting the tone for the show.
“Eraser”: “Eraser” is the only track 
on “÷” to feature Sheeran rapping. Al-though this is not the crowd favorite of the bunch, the hook is catchy enough to leave attendees satisﬁ  ed.
“The A Team”: “The A Team” is 
one of those songs that will stick with an artist past their career’s end. I can-not say I am thrilled about this neces-sary evil of a choice, but I will most deﬁ  nitely be caught singing along.“Don’t”/“New Man”: There was 
no question Sheeran would turn these into a mashup; a sequel to “Don’t” was 
always welcome. 
“Dive”: If people still take out their 
lighters and wave them side-to-side, 
“Dive” will most deﬁ  nitely be the time during which we see this cliche at play. I cannot wait to participate.   
“Bloodstream”: I’m convinced 
Sheeran chose “Bloodstream” over “Runaway” on the set list of his last 
tour, and I was almost relieved to 
know I would not see the offense at play in person. I spoke two years too soon. 
“Happier”: “Happier” is that sad 
song you resonate with even though you’ve never had your heart broken. It’s beautiful, and I cannot wait to fake cry at it in person. 
“Galway Girl”: If you know how to 
do an Irish jig, this is the one appropri-ate time to show it off. 
“Feeling Good”/“I See Fire”: 
Sheeran is expected to cover Michael Bublé’s “Feeling Good” in a mashup with Sheeran’s own “I See Fire.” At some shows, however, he has substi-tuted this mashup for other, less wor-
thy songs on “÷,” so the anticipation 
is killing me. 
Choice Song: Sheeran has surprised 
fans with a different song each night to ﬁ  ll this space. The possibilities hold strong potential for either a happy sur-prise or major letdown.
“Photograph”: “Photograph” is the 
song that should’ve never been made 
a single because it ruined many future 
brides’ hopes of being the ﬁ  rst dance track at their wedding, including mine. As it made the rounds on the “Multi-ply” Tour, I thought I would never 
hear it live, so this is a huge deal.
“Perfect”: “Perfect” is the “Think-
ing Out Loud” of “÷” and another 
slow song I am not ecstatic about but will still loudly sing along to.
“Nancy Mulligan”: If you haven’t 
heard “Nancy Mulligan,” you haven’t heard the single cutest song on the al-bum that also might make you want to 
do an Irish jig.
“Thinking Out Loud”: You will sing 
along to this song. The concessions 
staff will sing along to this song. The moms waiting in the car outside of the arena will sing along to this song. If this song was not on the set list, it may as well not have existed. 
“Sing”: “Sing” confused fans when 
it came out as the lead single on “X,” . Fans forgave him when the rest of the album came out, but then “Shape of You” was introduced as a lead single on “÷.”
“Shape of You”: Expect your local 
arena to feel precariously like your favorite Midtown bar for about four minutes. 
“You Need Me, I Don’t Need You”: 
The best moment of Sheeran’s House of Blues show in 2012 was his live ver-sion of “You Need Me, I Don’t Need You.” It ran almost 10 minutes long, and, when it was over, the audience wanted an encore from a breathless Sheeran. The fact that he is potentially bringing back this full version (which 
can be heard on Sheeran’s “5” extend-
ed play) is a gift. 
Ed Sheeran is (ﬁ  nally) returning to 
Florida: ‘Divide’ tour set list review
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Summer break is over, but 
the fun doesn’t have to end 
when school begins. It’s syl-
labus week, and freshmen and seniors alike are preparing for the semester ahead. With the stress of move-in, Fall classes beginning and GPA hanging in the balance, everyone needs a way to relax. If you feel like you need a little break from the madness, give this game a try, just maybe not on the night before an 8:30 a.m. class.Syllabus week 
drinking game 
Take a sip when…
Take a shot when…
Finish your drink when…• The ﬁ  rst thing your TA says is that you will be graded on attendance• Your Instagram timeline is completely ﬁ  lled 
with sorority recruitment and bid day pictures
• You are minding your own business and almost get run over by a bike in Turlington Plaza
• You give directions to a 
freshman on the wrong side of campus with a 50 lb. JanSport
• Anyone brings up Monday’s eclipse 
• Your class isn’t on Quizlet• You’ve already slept through one of your morning classes10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
By Natalie Rao 
Avenue Editor
Lucid Nightlife, an electronic 
music events company based in 
Gainesville, is hosting its third 
edition of their Back To School 
Bash concert Thursday at Simon’s Nightclub, located at 8 S. Main St. The biannual event is held during 
the ﬁ  rst week of each semester, 
and has been consistently grow-ing since its inception in August 2016.
As for Thursday’s edition of 
the Back To School Bash event, production duo Dusty Bits will 
headline, with local artists Tyler 
Anthony and FLTHYVBZ pro-viding opening support. Tickets range from $8 to $20, with Si-
mon’s offering various drink spe-
cials throughout the night. Doors open at 10 p.m., with the concert running until 2 a.m.
Throughout the past year, Lu-
cid Nightlife has brought elec-tronic producers of varying genres from all around the country to Gainesville. In addition to Thurs-
day’s headliner, they’ve brought 
artists like Tchami, Candyland, Herobust, Eptic and more. The 
company is expected to bring var-
ious concerts to Gainesville this semester in addition to Thurs-day’s show.
Thursday’s headliner, Dusty 
Bits, hails from Buffalo, New York. The duo has been con-sistently on the rise for the past year now, presenting intense bass 
house singles and remixes for 
various artists. Their most recent remix of future funk producer GRiZ’s “My Friends & I” pre-
miered this past Friday, and has 
already climbed to nearly 25,000 plays across music streaming 
platforms.
Matt Collins, the owner and 
creator of Lucid Nightlife, said 
Dusty Bits originally caught his 
attention at Asteria Music Fes-
tival. The company co-hosted this boutique festival located in Osteen, Florida, for its debut run in April of this year.
“We loved their live perfor-
mance and wanted to see them come to Gainesville, so thought this would be a good ﬁ  t,” he 
said. “They play high-energy mu-
sic and are very diverse in other genres, so we feel they can play 
to a college crowd well.” 
Collins said that the Back To 
School Bash has steadily gotten 
bigger over the course of the past 
year, with more inquiries coming 
in over the summer about Thurs-day’s event. He said that he hopes to see the event continue to grow over time.
“In ﬁ  ve years from its incep-
tion it would be great to see it as more of a block party or fes-tival that really sets the bar in 
Gainesville for the semester when 
it comes to partying,” he said. DJ Duo Dusty Bits to perform at Back To School Bash event
Courtesy to the Alligator.
Dusty Bits, a production duo from New York, are set to bring their talents to Simon’s Nightclub this Thursday night. 
MUSIC
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT OR 
ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
Room available in 2/2.5 Townhouse in Beacon Hill. Room has private full bathroom and balcony. Minutes from UF SHANDS and UF campus. 525.00/mo plus shared utilities. Email: yessie22@msn.com.     8-30-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-21-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-21-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
● 2008 HONDA FIT - 5-speed, 88k miles,excellent condition, $3750 / OBO● 2011 MIATA MX5 - 5-speed, only 18k 
miles, super condition $15k. Call 973-634-8821    8-25-12-3-12
2001 Cadillac Deville DTS.\500 miles on new engine, rebuilt front end, new tires., multiple CD player, spare parts. Beauty of a ride. $ 3200.     8-30-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. 
W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. Pool, clubhouse. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-14-17-2-2
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       8-23-17-4-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
After 2 pm weekdays, weekends if free. for 3 kids age 8-14. To help pick kids up from school and drive to activities (must have car), light help around the house.$12/hr, experi -
ence/references required.Email to rosenson@ufl.edu.     8-23-17-3-14
Professional parents looking for a sitter for a 3 month-old, select afternoons, 15 hr/wk. Must have prior experience with infants, and reliable transportation. Pay is $12/hr. Please call 352-371-3418.     8-30-17-5-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-
10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, 
pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14Country Inns and Suites by Carlson of Gainesville, Florida is currently seeking New Hires!
Breakfast Attendant- This position is re-
sponsible for the setting up and closing of 
breakfast area, inventory and/or ordering of breakfast food and supplies, maintaining a clean and welcoming breakfast area, assist-ing guests and other staff to provide a posi-tive experience for all.
Assistant Head Housekeeper-  To allocate 
daily cleaning tasks and issue items such as 
keys, linen and cleaning materials to house -
keepers. 
Front Desk/ Night Auditor- It is very impor-
tant that the individual possesses a strong outgoing personality, with an ability to pay close attention to details. The successful candidate should be able to work well with others, and maintain responsibility. 
Well Qualified Applicants:●Previous experience is preferred.
●Knowledge of Opera Property Management System●Strong communication skills written and verbal are essential (Bi-lingual +)●Experience working in a multi-tasking, fast paced environment●Demonstrated 5-star customer service skills
●Ability to work all shifts, including week-ends, evenings and holiday
Please apply in person at the
hotel direct at the address below:
Country Inn & Suites
4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, FL 32608
352-375-1550
8-25-17-3-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-21-17-
25-15
Affordable Automobile Repair Service.12 year's experience in Gainesville.Expect to pay 30% less.We also buy non-running cars.Call Gary (352) 443-1528     8-23-17-1-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1.  Rock ____
1.  Mr. French, for example5.  Idea, subject matter
2.  ____ bottle6.  ____ airplane 
3.  Late7.  Self-____
4.  Crest, insignia MOTOBT
EUBLTRHEMTE
EDMLO
SMOTEHR
VORUEDEEMSETE
BEMEMLANSWERS: 1A-Bottom  5A-Theme  6A-Model  7A-Esteem
1D-Butler  2D-Thermos  3D-Overdue  4D-Emblem  B-Tom Thumb8-23-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This folklore character dates 
back to the 1500s.
BONUS13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
GRE Self-Paced Program
now only $199!
Prep anytime- anywhere!
Find more info & enroll here:
PrincetonReview.com
9-1-17-5-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Designated drivers are the greatest"The Spiritual Purpose of Dreams" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., Aug. 20     
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
Everyone welcome
8-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACROSS
1 Sporty British
cars, for short
5 Omelet option
8 Reef material
13 Power co. output
14 Shaped like an
avocado
16 Dig deeply?
17 Fey with many
Emmys
18 Baltic port
19 “Unbroken”
director Angelina
20 Come out on top23 Intends to hit24 Sushi roll fish25 “NewsHour”
channel
28 Novelist Rita __
Brown
29 [I give up!]32 Vacation location34 Retail showcase36 Per item39 Area for critical
patients, briefly
40 Diamond great
Sandberg
41 Particle physics
concept
46 Pub quiz fodder47 Red Muppet who
refers to himself
in the third
person
48 Bit of toy
“ammo”
51 Gentle touch
52 Okay mark54 Knuckleheads56 Reporter’s
delivery ... andwhat 20-, 34-and 41-Acrossare literallydoing?
60 Humdinger
62 Kitchenware
brand
63 Blueprint detail
64 Subject of a
certain
managementclass
65 They may be
choppy
66 Fit together
nicely
67 High-
maintenance
68 “That’s the spot”69 Art Deco
luminaryDOWN
1 Goods thrown
overboard
2 “Girl on Fire”
singer Keys
3 Biological
mapping subject
4 Permanent marks
5 Fictional captain
Hornblower
6 Tel __, Israel
7 Christmas trio8 Persuades with
flattery
9 Air Wick target
10 Short and
chubby
11 D-backs, on
scoreboards
12 Jack Reacher
creator __ Child
15 Doily fabric
21 __ Los Angeles
22 Actress Polo26 Dietary fiber27 Eye problem
30 Determination
31 Anne of “Wag the
Dog”
33 Nimble
34 Improvised blade35 Fight that may
involve drawing
36 Started, as a co.37 Gillette brand
38 Pegboard game42 “So close, yet so
far”
43 Mother Earth, in
Greek mythology
44 “Holy cow!”45 Curtain supports48 Writer for whose
father theNational BaseballHall of Fame citywas named49 Idle50 Freudian
analyst’s concern
53 __ out: barely
makes
55 “Who’s there?”
answer
57 Was sorry about
58 Furniture chain
popular in dorms
59 Sweet Sixteen org.
60 Prohibit61 Suffix with ethyl
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/23/1708/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Bun or beehive
7 Faux __: social
goof
10 Keep __:
persevere
14 Free from stress
by heating, as
metal
15 Theater chain
initials
16 Golfer’s mulligan,
e.g.
17 Tendency to
explode in anger
19 Banjo ridge
20 Surrounded by
21 Rushed toward
23 Genetic letters24 Scottish denial25 Demons and such28 Graduates30 Deem necessary
31 Performing
35 Issue a ticket to36 Cover for
mysteriousdoings
40 Surprise “from
the blue”
41 Sharpshooters’
aiming devices
42 Top squads45 Media revenue
source
49 Blue jeans
pioneer
53 Roman goddess
of peace
54 Wash. neighbor55 Needles56 Beaujolais or
Burgundy
57 Red __: spicy
candies
59 Real-time media
transfer
62 “The Mammoth
Hunters” novelistJean
63 Dictator Amin64 Rain or snow,
briefly
65 Wee66 Broadband
option, briefly
67 Most elegant
DOWN
1 “Our Man in __”:
Graham Greene
novel set in Cuba2 Creature
3 Instead (of)
4 Film critic Rex5 “Who __?”: 
New OrleansSaints fans’
chant
6 Spanish cheer
7 Like a visit from
the Bishop of
Rome
8 Congregational
replies
9 Paper bits for
collages
10 Response to
“Speak!”
11 Wonderful12 Modern theft
target
13 How food may be
seasoned
18 Med. scan
22 Even score
25 Ltr. insert26 Corleone family
head
27 School break29 Rum cocktail32 “No __, ands or
buts!”
33 White House
foreign policy gp.34 Old Prizm
automaker
36 Removed from
office via election
37 Lifts
38 Taxpayer ID users39 56-Across
choices
40 Bloody Mary’s
solo
43 Chinese food
additive44 Unemotional46 Separately47 Island verandas48 Not subject to
jury duty, say
50 Fridge forays51 Analgesic brand52 Put to work56 Birdhouse singer58 Furtive60 Sunscreen letters61 Prefix with cycle
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/22/1708/22/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 22, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. GAMES: In Monopoly, what col-
or is the property St. James Place?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the 
expression “carrying coal to Newcas-
tle” mean?
3. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the news director on “WKRP in Cincinnati”?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which U.S. 
president was the target of the first assassination attempt?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: In the cat 
family, what are vibrissae?
6. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
grams are in a pound?
7. U.S. STATES: What state lies 
directly to the north of Kansas?
8. MEDICAL: What is happening if 
you experience borborygmi?
9. FIRSTS: When were the first 
license plates required for cars?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What does an onomastician study?
Answers
1. Orange2. Something superfluous or unnec-
essary. Newcastle is a coal-mining city.
3. Les Nessman4. Andrew Jackson, 1835. The gun 
misfired.
5. Whiskers6. 4547. Nebraska8. You may be hungry. Borborygmi 
is stomach growling.
9. 1901, New York state10. Names
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 21, 2017King Features Weekly Service
16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 15 Services 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators football Tweet of the Day
Freshman running back and three-star recruit Adarius Lemons  posted 
about his difﬁ  culties adjusting to Florida's playbook on Tuesday, writing: 
"These plays complicated  "Gorjok Gak  and three other 
Florida basketball players are 
representing their nations in T aiwan for the World University Games. Read the story, pg. 15.By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
There’s a lot of excitement within 
the Florida volleyball team. Excite-
ment for 2017 home matches to ﬁ  nally be played at the O’Connell Center again.
Excitement for a pair of top-ﬁ  ve 
matchups to open the season. Ex-citement for the leadership and ex-perience of the team’s ﬁ  ve returning seniors.
And excitement for three athletes 
who have just begun their playing careers at UF.
Despite the departure of Alex 
Holston, a four-time All-American who led the team in points last sea-son, the Gators seem primed for an-other successful year in 2017.
Coach Mary Wise said she does 
not expect any one player to ﬁ  ll the void left by Holston. Instead, she’s looking to the whole team to pitch in, starting with redshirt freshman Mia Sokolowski.
“Her top end is very high,” Wise 
said of Sokolowski.
The Tucson, Arizona, native had 
a strong debut in an exhibition match vs. Coastal Carolina last Saturday. 
The general vibe around the team is 
that Sokolowski is the Gators’ most improved player entering the 2017 season.
Middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan 
praised Sokolowski’s breakout per-formance, one of several players to do so.
“She killed it on Saturday,” Al-
hassan.
True freshmen Paige Hammons 
and Macy Phillips will also be counted on to help cover the loss of Holston. Alhassan and redshirt ju-nior Allie Monserez both comment-ed that the two freshmen came in al-ready possessing high volleyball IQs. Gators volleyball ready 
to start 2017 season
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHE GATORS ARE 
LOOKING TO MAKE UP 
FOR THEIR 2016 LOSS 
TO MICHIGAN.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Fred Johnson still thinks about it. 
The stadium. The feeling. The 
way he refused to look up at the scoreboard as he walked to the lock-er room at halftime. 
By the end, he had no choice. 
Flashed across the scoreboard were the numbers: 41-7.
“It’s time to go get payback,” he 
said on Tuesday.
Johnson, a junior who will likely 
start at guard for Florida this sea-son, was a freshman in 2015-16, the same year Florida ended its ﬁ  rst sea-
son under coach Jim McElwain with 
a 34-point loss to Michigan in the Citrus Bowl. Now, nearly two years later, Johnson still hasn’t forgotten the loss. Neither, he said, have his teammates.
“It’s on everybody’s mind,” John-
son said. “Just to prove to ourselves, like, we can do this.”
No. 17 Florida will open its sea-
son against No. 11 Michigan at AT&T Stadium on Sept. 2, a game that may hold more meaning than any of UF’s season openers in recent memory. A win could improve Florida’s College Football Playoff hopes. A loss would damage them. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
Quarterback Luke Del Rio took ﬁ  rst-team 
reps in front of reporters Tuesday. And as 
soon as the news hit Twitter, some fans 
went ballistic. 
Or, you know — as ballistic as a faceless 
Twitter egg on a computer screen can go. 
“Luke Del Rio should have looked at the 
eclipse yesterday with no glasses.” 
“At least we have a QB,” a Miami fan 
said, “Florida’s got Luke Del Rio.”
“Just for the love of god please no Luke 
Del Rio.” 
One person posted a year-old story about McElwain 
naming Del Rio the starter, and people were wonder-ing if they should start cheering for a new team.
The funny thing about this sort of hostility is that 
most of it has nothing to do with his performance.
As a starter in 2016, Del Rio had a 5-1 record. I’m 
no mathematician, but that means the Gators were 4-3 without him. The one loss staining his record — a 31-10 drubbing in Arkansas — wasn’t his fault. And that’s 
not me saying that, that’s the internal monologue of 
Jim McElwain.
“He should have been a 5-0 quarterback a year ago, 
had I not played him in the Arkansas game — which I shouldn’t have,” McElwain said. 
In the game, Del Rio took a ﬁ  rst-half 
hit that nearly snapped his already injured shoulder. So you can go ahead and blame him for throwing an interception on UF’s ﬁ  rst drive, but it certainly didn’t make a dif-ference in the 21-point loss. 
As Tampa Bay Times writer Matt Baker 
pointed out, Del Rio’s 320-yard, four-touch-
down game against Kentucky was statistically the best performance by a Gators QB against 
an SEC school in 15 years. 
But a lot of fans don’t care about that. They pick 
quarterbacks like they pick politicians. 
“Does he have experience? Sure. A solid arm? I 
guess. But does he give me that warm, fuzzy feeling 
inside, like I’m a 10-year-old watching Tim Tebow in 
my Gators jam-jams? No. So he sucks.”
I can see how Del Rio might not seem as interest-
ing as a 6-foot-5 gunslinger from Florida’s wild west. Or as thrilling as a running, throwing hot-shot from 
Notre Dame. But at the end of the day, Del Rio’s the 
only QB with experience in McElwain’s system. And he wouldn’t still be in the competition if Feleipe Franks  Football fans: You would be lucky 
to have Del Rio as your starting QB
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Matt’s What She Said / OpinionPUSHING FOR 'PA YBACK'
Alligator File Photo
Michigan beat Florida, 41-7, at the 2016 Citrus Bowl, the last time the two teams met. Now, the Gators are using that blowout loss 
as motivation for this year's season-opening rematch with the Wolverines on Sept. 2 at AT&T Stadium outside of Dallas. 
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After a run that saw the 
Florida men’s basketball team 
reach the Elite Eight in the NCAA 
Tournament, Florida will have seven players return to its roster 
this fall.
Three of those seven are 
starters, with KeVaughn Allen anchoring the offense and 
Kevarrius Hayes protecting the rim at center, at least until 
redshirt senior John Egbunu 
recovers from a torn ACL.
However, entering the 2017-
18 campaign, one of the biggest questions surrounding UF is who will step up to fill holes on the 
team. That starts with replacing 
Devin Robinson.
Robinson finished last season 
second on the team in points with 400 and also led the team with 220 rebounds.
Now that he’s playing for the 
Washington Wizards, the Gators need to find a replacement for his 
position. 
One player who could match 
Robinson’s production is 6-foot-5 
graduate transfer Egor Koulechov. 
In two seasons at Rice, Koulechov 
became one of 16 players in program history to score 1,000 
points and collect 500 rebounds.
While he averaged 18.2 points 
per game last year, he’ll have to deal with competing in a tougher 
conference in the SEC. Although his scoring ability could be a huge 
addition to Florida’s lineup.
Freshman Isaiah Stokes is 
also an option to start at small forward. The four-star prospect 
from Memphis, Tennessee, was a two-sport prospect, but chose to focus on basketball over football.
On top of having the same 
height as Robinson — both stand 
at 6-foot-8 — Stokes has a bigger 
frame which could help him in 
the post. He also has a decent 
jump shot, something that would allow him to be a viable scoring option.
Even if Stokes doesn’t start 
right away, he has the potential to develop into a key player during 
his time at Florida.
Who will be the starting 
point guard?
Senior Chris Chiozza will 
forever go down in Gator history with his buzzer-beating three-
pointer to beat Wisconsin in the Sweet 16. He even recorded 
a triple-double off the bench 
against Missouri on Feb. 2 at the O’Connell Center.He does, however, have some 
competition in the form of junior Jalen Hudson. 
The Virginia Tech transfer 
was one of the Hokies’ top 
scorers during his two years in 
Blacksburg, finishing fourth on the team in points each season with 222 in 2014-15 and 293 in 
2015-16.
Hudson has the potential 
to put up  points in volume, as shown with his three 20-point 
performances during his sophomore season. 
He’s also shown potential from 
the perimeter, making multiple three-pointers in a game eight 
times in the 2015-16 season. 
While Chiozza’s scoring isn’t 
his strong suit — he’s scored 649 points in his three years at UF — 
he has an edge when it comes to  all-around game. Chiozza has 363 career assists compared to Hudson’s 58, and Chiozza grabbed 295 rebounds while 
Hudson has 142. 
Another big factor in who will 
be named the starting point guard 
could be size. 
Hudson has the advantage 
there, standing at 6-foot-6 as 
the tallest guard on the team. 
Chiozza, the shortest player on the roster, is listed at 6-feet.
Both players are likely to see 
a lot of playing time this year, but coach Mike White will have a 
lot to think about when it comes 
to the starting point guard role before the 2016-17 season tips off 
on Nov. 13.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
Notebook: Gators have big shoes to fill in 2017-18 seasonSkyler Lebron 
Sports Writer 
The World University Games 
in Taiwan are a chance for col-
lege athletes to represent their 
nations in various team and in-
dividual sports.
And this year, three countries 
— Australia, Israel and Sweden 
— boast Gators men’s and wom-
en’s basketball players. 
Since the preliminary rounds 
of the tournament began on Aug. 
21, three Gators have earned playing time representing their homeland.
Sophomore center Gorjok 
Gak, who averaged 1.5 points and 1.5 rebounds for Florida in his freshman campaign, has rep-resented Australia in two games 
throughout the tournament so 
far.
Gak, from Sydney, Australia, 
netted six points and four re-bounds in 11 minutes of action 
in an 80-76 loss to Ukraine on 
Sunday.
The following day, Gak’s 
playing time more than doubled, 
as he poured in eight points and 
nine rebounds in 27 minutes.
Gak showed improvement 
throughout his first collegiate campaign in the 2016-17 season 
and continued to make progress 
in the NCAA Tournament. His upside lies in his ability to an-
chor a defense with his size and 
crash the boards consistently. 
And with redshirt senior cen-
ter John Egbunu likely sidelined 
until January, Gak could see 
minutes at center behind junior Kevarrius Hayes.
A Gator newcomer also 
shined in the international spot-light. Graduate transfer and former Rice standout Egor Kou-lechov followed up a four-point performance in Israel’s first game against Lithuania with an 18-point game Monday against Russia. In the 107-80 blowout, 
the 6-foot-5 guard also grabbed 
six rebounds, with three coming on offense.
Florida head coach Mike 
White showed an affinity for us-
ing larger guards off the bench  
last season. Canyon Barry served that role and became Florida’s go-to man for off-the-bench of-
fense. Koulechov shares the 
same size and shooting touch, lighting up Russia with four three-pointers in five attempts.
For his career, Koulechov 
showed his mettle from distance with a 39.8-percent three-point stroke, fourth on Rice’s all-time list.
On the women’s side of the 
tournament, graduate trans-fer Paulina Hersler played just under 14 minutes for Sweden on Monday, registering seven 
points and two rebounds in an 
85-57 win over Hungary.
On Tuesday, Hersler collect-
ed four points, three rebounds 
and two assists in a 65-58 losing 
effort against Chinese Taipei.
While the Gators women’s 
team enters a year of transition with first-year head coach Cam 
Newbauer, it hopes to get the 
most out of Hersler. The Malmo, Sweden, native helped the UCLA Bruins to a Sweet 16 appearance 
with averages of 3.4 points and 
2.6 rebounds.
Based on their World Univer-
sity performances, Gator ath-letes have a chance to play cru-
cial roles when they return from 
overseas for their 2017-2018 sea-sons.
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.orgGators play for Australia, Israel, Sweden in tournament 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gorjok Gak (right) is competing for Australia in the World University Games in T aipei. The rising 
sophomore center had 8 points and 9 rebounds in a two-point win against Lithuania on Monday. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2017
On Tuesday, Florida’s players 
said they  were well aware. And 
with less than two weeks before the game, they’re feeling conﬁ  -dent.
“People are always like, ‘Oh, 
y’all didn’t play nobody,’” soph-omore receiver Freddie Swain said of Florida critics. “So coming out against Michigan and having a good game against Michigan will show the world.”
The game will mark the ﬁ  rst 
time UF has ever played the 
Wolverines during the regular 
season, and the ﬁ  rst time Florida will play a non-conference game outside of its home state during the regular season since 1991.“Everybody’s watching. Ev-
erybody wants to see what the Florida Gators are going to do,” 
Swain said. “And that’s a good 
game to do it in.”
Swain was still in high school 
the last time Florida faced Michi-gan, but said he knows how much the season opener means to his teammates. With the lure of playing a top-15 opponent in Week 1, Swain said there's been 
a different feel to fall camp.
“They’re a top team. We’re 
a top team,” he said. “It’s going 
to be a good game to see what Florida is all about.”
Kicker Eddy Pineiro agreed. 
Pineiro, a junior college transfer, also joined the team last sea-son, but constantly overhears 
his teammates talking about the 2016 loss to Michigan during 
practice.
“If they’re not having a good 
practice, that’s how they moti-vate themselves,” Pineiro said. “‘You don’t want to get your butt kicked like you did against them.’”
Pineiro also said he thinks a 
win against Michigan will help Florida’s College Football Playoff chances. But he’s also looking 
forward to simply playing on an 
NFL ﬁ  eld.
“Who’s not excited to play in 
the Dallas Cowboys’ stadium?” Pineiro said. “That’s something I’m going to tell my kids 10 years from now.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UF lost to Michigan, 41-7, in 2016
UF faces Texas Friday 'Take it easy' on Del Rio
Coach Wise was pleased 
with how fast the two ﬁ  rst-years are catching on as well.
The 12th-ranked Gators 
open the regular season on 
Friday against No. 1 Texas, a 
team they lost to in their 2015 regional ﬁ  nal match.
Wise called the back-and-
forth, ﬁ  ve-set, season-ending loss a “typical, epic Florida-Texas volleyball match.”
Florida will get a chance to 
avenge that loss in its season 
opener, its third consecutive 
year taking part in the VERT Challenge.
On Saturday, the Gators 
play No. 5 Nebraska on Day 2 of the event. Florida lost to then-No. 1 Nebraska 3-1 in the ﬁ  rst game of last season.The Gators will play both 
games at home in the O'Connell Center. 
While the team hopes to en-
joy the upcoming season, it are still taking opening weekend 
very seriously.
“They’re going to come in 
here and they’re going to ﬁ  ght 
and they’re going to give us there all,” said Alhassan, who also added that “it’s going to be a fun match, for sure.”
“These are two teams whose 
rosters are ﬁ  lled with all-con-
ference, All-American, High 
School All-Americans-type tal-ent,” Wise said.  “They’re very, very deep and very talented.”
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org VOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Alligator File Photo
Kicker Eddy Pineiro said his teammates are saying things like, "You don't want 
to get your butt kicked like you did against (Michigan), " in practice this fall.
Alligator File Photo
After a 5-1 record as a starter, Luke Del Rio is fighting to keep his job against Feleipe Franks and Malik Zaire.or Malik Zaire were as far ahead as some fans 
think they are.
So take it easy on the guy who could be 
your team’s future leader. 
Unless the goal is to tear down Del Rio 
until he has a nervous breakdown, you’re not helping.
Do I think Luke Del Rio can lead the 
Gators to a national championship? Probably not. But I don’t think Franks or Zaire can ei-ther. 
So why make the only QB who has played 
in Gainesville feel unwelcome?
Why assume he hasn’t improved in an 
entire year?
Why say things like, “Starting Luke Del 
Rio doesn’t feel right,” when most coaches would kill for a guy like him? 
Probably because feeling is easy, and 
thinking is hard.
Matt Brannon is the Alligator sports edi-
tor. Look out for his next column to appear 
on Aug. 31. You can follow him on Twitter @MattB_727, and contact him at mbran-
non@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14