We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBlack Holes
UF physics professor helps detect black-hole collision, pg. 3
Newell Hall
A 15-foot art installation was erected on Newell Hall’s front 
lawn, pg. 8UF baseball advances to NCAA 
Super Regional
Gators defeated Bethune-Cookman 6-1 
Monday night to move on, pg. 13VOLUME 111 ISSUE 152 TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF graduate student 
Mirsada Serdarevic was walking on 
Gale Lemerand Drive, she noticed a substantial amount of trash in a creek that is home to about three or 
four gators. 
The 26-year-old said she has 
seen trash in the creek located 
across the street from the Commut-er Lot for about a year, but never noticed how much there was until she saw an innocent gator lying in it. 
Serdarevic said she has seen this 
particular gator, who likes to hang out by the crosswalk, lying in trash multiple times.    
“It’s an animal, and I don’t think 
it should be swimming in debris,” Serdarevic said. “I was just really upset.”
UF is a well-kept campus, 
Serdarevic said, adding that she rarely sees trash. She thinks the de-bris in the creek may be because of people trying to get the gator’s at-tention to take photos by throwing 
trash at it. 
Serdarevic said disrespecting the 
UF mascot by letting it lie in trash 
sends a horrible message to the community. She said it is a misrep-resentation of our campus and mas-cot when we allow gators to live in a littered environment. Gator seen swimming through trash-
ﬁ  lled creek on Gale Lemerand Drive
Courtesy to the Alligator
A gator swims in trash in a creek on Gale Lemerand Drive. Mirsada Serdarevic, a 26-year-old UF 
graduate student, said allowing our school mascot to live in an area with a substantial amount of litter is a disgrace. 
SEE GATOR,  PAGE 4By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Amid a series of major changes 
within UF’s administration, a top 
legal adviser for the university has resigned.
After 10 weeks of administra-
tive leave — because of an internal investigation regarding her role as UF’s top legal adviser — Jamie Lew-is Keith ofﬁ  cially resigned May 31.
Keith will receive a severance 
package of about $174,000 and will also be entitled to up to $50,000 in attorney’s fees, UF spokesperson Margot Winick wrote in an email.
On March 22, Keith took leave 
from her position, which she held since 2006, to avoid appearance of a conﬂ  ict during the investigation. Keith will remain on leave through June 28, her last day of employment with UF, according to Alligator ar-chives.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Internal Audit be-
gan an internal investigation into Keith on Feb. 28 after receiving a complaint from Gainesville-area lawyer Huntley Johnson, accord-ing to Alligator archives. Johnson accused Keith of being unﬁ  t to run the Ofﬁ  ce of the General Counsel, which provides legal representation for UF.
“The internal investigation in-
volving Keith is ongoing and is expected to be completed in a few weeks,” Winick said.
Keith’s resignation came less 
than 24 hours after the resignation of another top UF ofﬁ  cial, Associ-ate Vice President and Dean of Stu-dents Jen Day Shaw.
Day Shaw resigned Tuesday 
after UF decided not to renew her appointment. The decision came af-ter the university learned that Day Shaw provided a positive reference for Chris Loschiavo, a former UF Ti-
tle IX coordinator who was ﬁ  red in 
August for using his work computer to purchase pornography.
Loschiavo’s case is one amid a 
series of ﬁ  rings and resignations within UF’s Student Affairs, which Day Shaw oversaw as dean of stu-dents since 2010.
In September, Lloren Foster was 
removed as executive director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs — a program operated under Stu-dent Affairs and Dean of Student’s Ofﬁ  ce — for reasons including lack of leadership, failure to meet dead-lines and asking a colleague if they were having sex, according to Alli-gator archives.
In February, three other MCDA 
directors announced their resigna-tions within an 11-day span.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said the recent resignations and shift within Student Affairs is not unusual.
“There are issues that may come 
up, but there are constantly these 
kinds of leadership and manage-
ment changes happening all over the University of Florida,” Sikes said. “It’s a $5.5 billion organiza-tion. It is incredibly complex, and we have more than 15,000 employ-ees.”
Keith and Day Shaw’s resigna-
tions have nothing to do with the 
changes within MCDA, Sikes said. 
“Support for students has never 
wavered,” she said. “It always will 
remain our highest priority.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Top UF lawyer resigns 
amid investigationSEE LONDON,  PAGE 4By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When UF alumnus and England native 
Scott Henshall heard the news of a deadly at-
tack in London on Saturday night, he imme-diately reached for his phone to message his brother.
Although he was safe in a Birmingham club 
about 2 1/2 hours away from London, Hen-shall feared for his 27-year-old brother who works near Canon Street — about three blocks from London Bridge, where three knife-wield-ing assailants had just driven their white van through crowds of pedestrians, according to 
The New York Times.
By morning, he ﬁ  nally got word that his 
brother was OK.
“I was worried for some time, but I remem-
bered him saying he was going to stay in that 
night — so I tried not to think too much of it,” Henshall, who graduated from UF in April with a bachelor’s degree in economics, wrote in an email.
Saturday night marked England’s third ma-jor terrorist attack in the past three months. After the three men crashed their van into a bus stop, they went on foot into Borough Mar-
ket, a crowded nightspot near London Bridge, 
and stabbed multiple people, according to the Times.
At least seven people were killed and doz-
ens more wounded, 21 of whom remain in critical condition, according to the Times.
Henshall said he was in London himself 
Monday while interviewing for jobs. After ful-ﬁ  lling his dream of attending college in Amer-
ica, Henshall said he won’t allow terrorism to affect his plans of getting a job in a big city in 
his home country.
“I know England will be ﬁ  ne,” the 21-year-
old said. “(We) came out stronger after the 2007 attacks, and I know we can come out stronger after this.”  
There are 47 UF students currently study-
ing abroad in London, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said. All are safe and accounted for.
UF marketing junior Lizzie Connor said re-
cent terror attacks have impacted London in All 47 UF students studying in London are safe
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 152
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘River of Dreams’
The Matheson History 
Museum’s new exhibition, 
“River of Dreams: the St. 
Johns and Its Springs,” runs from now until June 24. This original exhibition examines 
Floridians’ past, present and 
future relationship with the St. Johns River and its springs. The exhibition and all related programs are free and open to 
the public. The exhibition in-
cludes original work by pho-tographer Anne Ledbetter and Bruce Mozert; artifacts from 
Kingsley Plantation; a model 
of the Silver Glen Springs shell mound; documents and im-ages on loan from Smathers Library, Special & Area Studies 
Collections and the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper project; and images of the St. Johns River, Ocklawaha River 
and Silver Springs from the 
Matheson’s photographic, ste-reographic and postcard col-lections. It will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. For more in-
formation, visit mathesonmu-
seum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by 
Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-
lar street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in-
clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
‘Forever Plaid’ at the 
HippodromeJoin the boys of “Forever Plaid” on a journey through close-harmony songs of the ‘50s during the new musical at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre. 
With one final chance to give the concert they never gave, The Plaids sing nostalgic hits like “Rags To Riches,” “Love is a Many Splendored Thing,” 
“Catch A Falling Star,” “Three 
Coins In A Fountain” and many more. The musical is a mix of ‘50s and ‘60s rock ‘n’ roll, popular show and dance 
tunes, blended with comedy. 
The show will run from now until June 25. To buy tickets or to find more information, visit 
thehipp.org/event/forever-
plaid.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s 
Comedy Boom features live 
stand-up comedy every 
Wednesday night. Local come-
dians open the show for a dif-
ferent nationally touring head-
liner each week. Doors open at 
8:45 p.m., and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will 
accompany the show.
'The Magnificent Revengers 
In...A Choose Your Own Tragedy - A Comedy!'
UF's School of Theatre and Dance continues its summer theater partnership with New York production company Tilted Windmills Theatricals. This summer’s new play, "The Magnificent Revengers," is an interactive adventure set in the Wild West where audience members select character traits and plot twists that shape how the action unfolds. The play is presented with many of the same guest artists and produc-ers from last summer’s parody, "Puffs," currently continuing its run Off Broadway. The show will be performed at McGuire Pavilion Black Box Theatre, lo-cated at 1800 McCarty Drive, from Wednesday to Sunday. Tickets can be purchased 
through the University Box 
Office. It is $13 for UF students, 
$15 for UF faculty, UF staff and seniors, and $18 for the gen-eral public. The show is not 
appropriate for children under 
12. For more information, visit 
arts.ufl.edu/in-the-loop/events/the-magnificent-revengers-in.a-choose-your-own-tragedy-a-
comedy.
Museum Nights: Fun in 
Focus 
Explore the photographs and themes in the new exhibi-tion "The Same But Different" through hands-on activi-ties, tours and performances Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Harn Museum of Art. Visitors also have the chance to meet campus and community photography organizations. The event is free and open to the public. For more information, visit harn.ufl.edu/museum-nights.
International Piano Festival
The UF  School of Music pres-ents the 2017 International Piano Festival. Now in its 10th 
year, the International Pi ano 
Festival assembles promis-
ing young pianists for lessons and master classes with distin-guished piano teachers from 
North America and across the 
globe. The festival will have 
a series of events that are free and open to the public in the Music Building, Room 101, on 
Saturday starting at 3:30 p.m. 
For more information, visit arts.
ufl.edu/sites/international-pia-no-festival/overview.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
Gatormania
The largest summer event on 
campus, Gatormania 2017, 
will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. on the North Lawn. Start Summer B with free food, giveaways and live perfor-
mances showcasing a variety 
of student organizations and campus partners. The event is hosted by the Involvement 
Team, the ambassadors of 
the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. For more information, visit studentinvolvement.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  80° LOW  72°TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Three billion light-years away, two black holes 
collided and merged to form one larger black hole, 
sending gravitational waves rippling through the universe. 
Meanwhile, on Earth, researchers from the La-
ser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory project, or LIGO —using hardware and software cre-
ated in part by UF faculty— detected these changes. 
LIGO Director and UF physics professor David 
Reitze said when a star with more than 2.8 times the mass of the sun collapses, its gravity becomes 
so powerful that not even light can escape from its 
core, creating a black hole. It absorbs everything 
that comes close enough, including light. 
The LIGO project uses laser technology to detect 
changes in gravity from cosmic entities such as this. 
The laser travels about 2 1/2 miles between two mirrors, and it only distorts when the sound caused 
by two of these collapsed stars colliding reaches Earth, Reitze said. 
While this was not the ﬁ  rst time the observatory 
detected two black holes colliding, there are some key differences. 
Reitze said the ﬁ  rst difference is that the two 
black holes, before and after merging, are larger than any other that was previously discovered. “When they collide, their event horizons collide 
and produce a much larger black hole, in this case 49 solar masses,” Reitze said. “LIGO is discovering 
a new class of black holes that are more massive 
than past black holes.”
Additionally, these black holes are the furthest 
from Earth to be discovered, showing that black 
holes exist in the far reaches of the universe. 
Reitze said the collision showed how the black 
holes orbit each other. Originally, scientists thought black holes orbit each other in the same way the 
moon and Earth orbit each other. 
However, the data shows they do not orbit each 
other at a constant rate. 
Guido Mueller, a UF physics professor, noted the 
existence of gravitational waves detected by LIGO 
helps to support Einstein’s theory of relativity. 
He said the existence of gravitational waves 
helps to shed light on what occurs when two cos-
mic entities orbit each other. 
“Once they get closer and closer, space-time is 
so much deformed that we have a hard time un-derstanding what is going on,” Mueller said. “The gravitational waves will actually tell us what is go-
ing on and can help us understand relativity more 
completely.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgUF physics professor helps detect black-hole collision
Courtesy to the Alligator
An artist’s rendering of two black holes prior to their merge. Black holes 
have such a strong gravitational pull, nothing is able to escape, including light. The merged black hole has a mass 49 times that of the sun.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017By Jenna Metcalf
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new UF-sponsored course 
will teach adults of all ages the 
art of saying goodbye.
To help community members 
prepare for the end of their lives, UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-cultural Sciences will sponsor 
a program that covers a range 
of death-related concerns, such 
as communicating with family 
members and passing on precious items.
“Death and dying is a topic we 
avoid, but by not talking about it 
we are asking loved ones to make 
decisions without our input,” said Lynda Spence, the program’s di-rector. “Placing that burden on 
someone else can negatively im-
pact relationships and also the way we are remembered.”
The program, called the The 
Art of Goodbye: End of Life Edu-
cation series will be offered June 
5, 12, 19 and July 10 at the On Top of the World retirement com-munity in Ocala, Spence said. Although the course is free, ad-
vance registration is required.
Spence said participants in the 
course will have an emphasis on 
identifying personal values and 
beliefs that will help them begin 
to plan and communicate with family, friends and health care providers with greater self-deter-mination.
“Group discussion, role play 
and various activities guide par-ticipants through complex issues and concerns,” she said. “Discus-sion is a huge part of the success 
of the program.”
Even those who are not elderly 
or terminally ill can benefit from 
the program, which was devel-
oped for adults of all ages, Spence 
said.
“Each lesson has specific ob-
jectives, but another overachiev-ing goal is to inform participants 
so they are able to begin to plan,” 
she said. “Our goal is to ‘normal-ize’ the conversations around end-of-life concerns.”
UF alumna Rachael Johnston 
praised the university for offering useful courses such as The Art of Goodbye.
“Now that I’m getting older, I 
feel like looking into this is some-thing that could definitely be beneficial,” the 21-year-old said. “I love that UF is able to offer us things like this in addition to our 
normal course curriculum. And 
it’s free, which is always a plus.”
By David Street
Alligator Staff Writer
In 1992, a man was tasked 
with heading UF’s athletic depart-
ment — Jeremy Foley. From 1992 
to 2016, the Gators had 10 teams win a combined 27 championships 
and ended up in the top 10 of the 
Learfield Directors’ Cup standings each year, which is presented to 
the nation’s best overall collegiate 
athletics program.  
After 25 years 
of service, Foley decided that his 
time as UF’s ath-
letic director had 
come to an end. However, the 
64-year-old is not 
ready to leave UF 
just yet. He will serve as the uni-
versity’s athletic director emeritus 
and will be a professor of practice in sport leadership beginning Fall 
2017.
Michael Sagas, the chair of UF’s 
Department of Tourism, Recre-ation and Sport Management, ap-
proached Foley about a teaching position after he stepped down as athletic director.
“When I found out he was re-
tiring, I mentioned it to him one day,” Sagas said. “I said, ‘Would 
you be interested?’”
Foley will join the sport man-
agement faculty and serve as an instructional faculty member. 
The class Foley will teach will be geared toward people who have 
an interest in a leadership position 
such as sports information director or athletic director.
In addition to being a profes-
sor of practice, Foley will also be teaching an annual seminar on 
leadership in athletics.
He said he’s excited about this 
opportunity to teach because it brings him a challenge.
“It’s something that’s different,” 
Foley said. “It’ll be a challenge for me, and it’ll be fun.”
Foley said the one thing he’s 
looking forward to the most about being a professor of practice is in-
teracting with students.
“I like students,” Foley said. “I 
like the energy they bring to the University of Florida.”
@dstreet177
dstreet@alligator.org
“It doesn’t paint a very nice picture to see 
our mascot swimming in trash,” Serdarevic 
said. 
Amy Elliott, a 27-year-old UF pre-doctoral 
student, said this is an issue that has been up-setting a lot of people who walk by the creek. 
“After you walk by it again and again, it’s really something that starts to weigh on you, and you start to really feel for the alligator,” she said.
Not everyone walks by the creek and notic-
es the trash, Elliott said, but this is an issue the whole campus needs to take part in amending.  
After doing some research, Elliott said the 
removal of litter is actually very expensive. 
She said UF may not have the funds to re-move the litter from the creek, but something can be done to prevent it from continuing. 
On her walk from the Commuter Lot to the 
Health Profession, Nursing, Pharmacy build-
ing, which is roughly 10 minutes, Elliott said 
she only passes by two trash cans. 
Elliott said the best way to help eliminate 
litter in the area is to increase the amount of trash cans on walkways throughout the uni-versity or put up signs that prohibit littering. 
She said she hopes that by spreading aware-
ness of this issue, more people will realize lit-tering can have devastating effects on wildlife. 
“It’s not OK for the alligator, and it shouldn’t 
be OK for our campus,” Elliott said. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
GATOR,  from pg. 1Some UF students were extremely upset about the litterKICKERUF IFAS course teaches adults how to navigate death
two major ways: guns and police presence.
Last Summer, during her semester 
abroad as part of the UF in London pro-gram, the 20-year-old said she hardly ever saw guns on the streets.But this summer, when she returned to 
England’s capital city for a 10-day vacation, she said she saw more police patrolling with guns.  
“There’s definitely more police presence 
and military presence, especially in areas that are more tourist-driven,” she said.Connor also said the fear of future attacks 
won’t affect her plans of possibly returning to London for work after graduation.
This summer, it’s news of attacks in Eng-
land that has her taken back. Last Summer, while she was thousands of miles away studying in London, Connor said it was the news of the Pulse nightclub shooting in her own hometown, Orlando, that shook her.
“At the end of the day, it can pretty much 
happen anywhere,” she said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
LONDON,  from pg. 1Foley
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
 When UF athlete Lloydricia 
Cameron got an early-morning 
call from her bank informing her 
about possible fraudulent pur-chases on her credit cards last 
month, she didn’t believe them.
“I told them that my cards 
were in the car in my wallet,” 
said Cameron, who won the 2017 
Southeastern Conference shot put 
championship for women’s track and field.
Cameron, 21, said she immedi-
ately walked out of her apartment to check her silver Chevy Cruze, 
only to find the lock on her driv-
er’s side door broken. Her UF ath-
letics backpack and wallet, which 
held her debit and credit cards, 
were all gone.
“I keep basically all my stuff in 
my wallet,” Cameron said. 
On May 31, police arrested Da-
vontay Waller, 20, a second time for using Cameron’s debit cards 
to make fraudulent purchases, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
arrest report.
Two weeks prior, at about 7 
p.m., Waller stole $174 in cash, a $15 Ross Stores gift card and mul-tiple debit and credit cards from 
Cameron’s car, according to the 
report.
With Cameron’s cards, Waller 
spent more than $600 dollars at the Butler Plaza Wal-Mart. Ac-
cording to the report, he spent 
about $200 in the electronics de-
partment to activate a cell phone 
and another $194.65 on baby products at the self-checkout 
aisle.
The UF athlete said she did not 
know Waller before the incident.
Police initially arrested Waller 
on May 21 at The Oaks Mall for using one of Cameron’s cards to 
buy $783.31 worth of clothing at 
Banana Republic, according to 
the report. Waller had also spent 
$1,558.49 at Gap using Cameron’s 
card two days earlier.
Waller was released May 22 
from the Alachua County Jail on his own recognizance. At the 
time, the only charges Waller 
faced were related to the Banana 
Republic purchases.
After arresting Waller the first 
time, police continued to investi-
gate the purchase he made on May 
17, and identified him on Wal-Mart security camera footage. He 
was wearing a distinctive gray hat 
and carrying a Gator backpack, 
which Cameron identified as her 
own, according to the report. Po-lice then searched Waller’s Face-
book page and found a picture of 
him wearing the same hat.
Waller admitted to buying a 
cell phone with a stolen card and 
said the Wal-Mart footage was of him, according to the report. He 
then told police that he later re-
turned the phone for a refund.
As of Monday evening, Waller 
remains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $16,000 bond. He 
faces charges including fraudu-
lent use of credit cards, criminal 
use of personal identification and 
attempted grand theft auto.
Cameron said she plans to 
press charges against Waller.
She said she’s currently figur-
ing out how to make up the cash Waller stole from her and gather 
the money to repair the car dam-
ages.
“I have to cover the charges 
for something I didn’t do,” Cam-
eron said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgGainesville man breaks into UF 
athlete’s car, steals debit cards
At least seven people were killed in Saturday night’s attackFormer athletic director to teach at UFTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO 
FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITION: Photographers
Please send resume
 and clips to  
mvossler@alligator.org
& 
editor@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORPresident Donald Trump withdrew from 
the Paris climate agreement last week in a move that set the U.S. apart from nearly ev-ery country in the world. The left respond-ed with its usual rage and hysteria. Fareed 
Zakaria declared that the withdrawal was “the single most irresponsible act that this president has taken” and that “the United States resigned as the leader of the free world.” Many others echoed his claims. Statements like these mirror the left’s typical hyperbole when any political move doesn’t reflect the liberal agenda, especially on the ever sensitive is-sue of climate change.  
Fortunately for Americans, Trump was well aware of the 
multiple shortcomings of the agreement before he took office and actively campaigned against it, which makes the recent hand-wringing somewhat disingenuous. The only legitimate criticism of this decision was voiced long before Trump took office. Since the agreement was reached in September 2016, climate activists have advocated for it to be confirmed by the Senate and made an international treaty, and thus not undone should a Republican be voted into office. If former President Barack Obama were as serious about climate change as he 
claimed, he would have followed these climate activists’ ad-
vice. Instead, he elected to deprive the Republican-majority Senate of the opportunity to reject the agreement, gambling on the outcome of the 2016 election. His bad bet gave Trump the ability to cancel the agreement with no more than the same fountain pen by which Obama accepted it. Notwith-standing the left’s attempt to make an issue over it, the agree-ment had no popular mandate and nothing to make it a last-ing part of Obama’s ever dwindling legacy. 
While the Paris climate agreement had its own legislative 
shortcomings, its substance is even worse. The agreement would largely have been a symbolic measure; each country involved was only willing to acknowledge the issue of climate change but not actually do anything about it. Current pre-dictions for the agreement show it would do almost nothing to change average global temperatures. If all 178 signatories to this 14-year nudum pactum (which means bare or naked promises in Latin) abide by all of the voluntary measures (which would be a first in world history) for the next century, the UN climate prediction model estimates the global temperature would be decreased by only .3 degrees Fahrenheit. Not only 
are the returns infinitesimal compared to what cli-
mate activists desire (usually 2 degrees Celsius), but the agreement will cost the world an estimated $1-2 trillion a year according to the Stanford Uni-versity Energy Modeling Forum. While the deal itself would have obviously been costly and inef-
fective, none of these reasons are the principal reason Trump cited for withdrawing. 
Trump, with his “America First” policy, recognized that 
the objectives of the agreement would be achieved largely at 
the expense of U.S. interests. All 178 countries in the agree-ment were able to set their own goals for reducing carbon emissions, one of which will not begin until the agreement is close to expiration (China) and one which relies on $2.5 trillion in U.S. aid (India), according to Environmental Protec-tion Agency administrator Scott Pruitt. At the same time, the U.S., which had already made double digit carbon dioxide reductions over the last decade, would have to further reduce carbon emissions by 26  to 28 percent, an extremely costly venture that would only accelerate the death of the coal in-dustry, one of Trump’s most loyal constituencies. These pa-tently unequal terms raise the question of why anyone would agree to a deal so counter to U.S. interests.
Thankfully, Trump was unwilling to bind our country to 
such an unfavorable deal and withdrew the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement before it could weaken our economy. Going beyond his campaign rhetoric, Trump has offered to renegotiate the agreement’s terms to combat climate change without unfairly burdening Americans. His greatest obstacle is a Democratic Party unwilling to work with him on or agree with him about anything.
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column appears on 
Tuesdays.
The problems with the Paris climate agreementThe impacts of 
America leaving the 
climate agreement
In case you missed it, our naive commander in chief chose to 
make the U.S. one of three countries in the world not aligned with the Paris climate agreement.
The 31-page accord was crafted in December 2015 to en-
courage nations to prevent drastic climate change and keep 
our planet out of harm’s way. Its main goal is for countries to work together to keep global average temperatures from rising 2 degrees Celsius. It warns that if the planet were to warm beyond 2 degrees, we will risk dangerously high seas, changes in weather patterns, and food and water crises.
Anyone with a third-grade-level education is aware of the un-
deniable fact that climate change is real and poses an alarmingly real threat to our planet. As President Donald Trump announced last week that the U.S. would soon withdraw from the agree-
ment, the nation and world went into another Trump-induced 
frenzy.
After the initial upset, we had time to assess the true implica-
tions of our president’s decision. What we learned over the past several days is the U.S. departure from the agreement probably won’t change too much. Firstly, the accord itself was not very strict. Had America stayed in the accord, there is no saying we would have made any real effort to go green, just that we would publicly acknowledge there was a problem.
Furthermore, many states, companies and individuals have 
been making an effort on their own to reduce, reuse and recycle in an attempt to prevent the effects of climate change. In fact, Trump’s announcement has actually created a spike in these ef-forts.
Since 2005, Wells Fargo has spent $5 billion on a financing 
program for green businesses, solar and wind energy projects. Crayola has declared its favorite color as green by using re-newable energy, reducing waste and protecting the rainforests. 
Around the world, major car companies like Audi and Toyota 
have created cars with the ability to run on battery power, allow-ing drivers to forgo or lessen their usage of fossil fuels.
Americans have chosen to buy these products, as well as 
many others, in a personal effort to keep the planet in tip-top shape.
Green efforts have been happening independently for years, 
but with the U.S. leaving the agreement, people now feel even more inclined to put their best foot forward when it comes to 
helping the planet.
The city of St. Petersburg has become the first in Florida to 
officially commit to using 100-percent clean renewable energy. 
Other world leaders have released statements declaring their de-votion to “make our planet great again,” giving Americans solace in knowing other nations will not dwindle in their efforts to keep the planet safe. America is but one nation, and we forget that without us, there are still plenty of other powerful nations who are making smarter choices than we are right now.
We believe that after the U.S. officially leaves the agreement, 
the world will be in no more danger than it is right now. The larg-est impact this decision will have is the way America is perceived internationally. To speak candidly, it is embarrassing that we are one of three nations to reject the agreement. Under Trump’s rash decisions, America is losing respect and falling as a world leader. Instead of leading the world in conservation and acting as a role model for less wealthy and powerful nations, we are a laughing stalk and a flight risk. We can only hope these other nations are 
able to make up for our shortcomings and keep the planet in line.
Jack Story
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
Sometimes people fail to recognize 
that when it comes to heritage and being part of a new generation, there is the median of people who repre-sent both and should be given the 
availability to express and acknowledge it.
The lack of proper media representa-
tion for other cultures that dictate singu-lar images and the stereotypes that skewer one’s perception of their own identity has an enormous inﬂ  uence on ﬁ  rst-generation Americans. We exist in large numbers, and I grew up thinking they had to be categorized based on a local generalization because of 
the fact that they didn’t have many popular 
ﬁ  gures to relate to.
Kali Uchis, a 22-year-old pop singer from 
Pereira, Colombia, grew up in the state of Virginia, a place otherwise realized to be “not Miami” by our immigrant parents. She sings mostly about relationships, love, re-bellion and sexuality while she interviews on her experiences as a Colombian-Amer-ican woman. The self-proclaimed “dislik-able Colombian girl” has been on the mu-sic scene for a few years and is regarded as having an Amy Winehouse-esque voice, all 
while being featured alongside well-known 
names like Tyler, The Creator and Gorillaz. Kali Uchis doesn’t look like me, but that’s not what matters. Her image as a college-aged Hispanic girl with a lot of unabashed feelings makes me want to listen to what she has to say.
What’s the meaning of a young woman 
from one of my worlds making it big in the 
other? I mainly picture all of the little brown 
girls across the U.S. who may no longer feel forced to fangirl over the character of a show who simply looks most like them. I recently visited the American Girl website and, much to my 7-year-old heart’s content, they ﬁ  nally carry a doll whose skin, hair and eyes look like mine. Twenty-year-old me thinks that’s cool, but it would be cooler if they got my gut and thighs right as well.
In the years leading up to my naturaliza-
tion, I slowly realized the culture I belonged to, which I knew nothing about, played so 
little a part in my life. I only spoke Spanish 
to my parents, and I never actually men-tioned how arepas were my favorite food because none of my friends knew what they were. It was difﬁ  cult to discern where I belonged when I knew my mother was Portuguese, my father was Colombian and I was born in South America. The only cul-ture that I wanted to explore was digging up 
pumpkin guts on Halloween and cracking 
open plastic eggs during Easter.
In retrospect, my identity as a Hispanic 
person in this country felt reserved during my childhood, and even my adolescence, mostly because of the fact that I didn’t have an example of opinions, outside of my par-ents’ ﬁ  ltered interests in Latin America. What representation can do in the media is signiﬁ  cant because of the power to em-power; teaching immigrant children from a young age that they aren’t just an addition to a white man’s land, and showing them 
they aren’t what people generalize them as 
raises a generation more aware of what they will offer their country. It is another step to-ward equality. In a time when young voices want to be heard, seen and discussed, “dis-likable Colombian girls” should stand out among them. It is our job as future guiders to choose diversity and market it for the sake of preserving culture and forming a deﬁ  ni-
tion for those who represent many. Happy 
Immigrant Heritage Month, Gainesville.
Karla Arboleda is a journalism and inter-
national studies senior. Her column appears 
on Tuesdays.
Cultural representation, Kali Uchis and the unity of ‘dislikable Colombian girls’
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERCatie Wegman / Alligator Staff
The Newell Hall Learning Commons just finished the 
installment of a 14-foot art installation intended to represent the agricultural history of the building.
By Daniela Garrido
Alligator Contributing Writer
An interactive beekeeping 
class will teach community mem-
bers how to extract honey from 
backyard beehives.
Partnering with the Alachua 
County Extension Office, the UF 
Bee Unit, located at 2895 SW 23rd 
Terrace, will offer a beginner bee-keeping course Saturday from 9 
a.m. to noon.
The course will teach commu-
nity members how to manage, maintain and extract honey from healthy beehives.
Alachua County Commercial 
Horticulture Extension Agent Ta-tiana Sanchez will host the inter-active course, where participants 
will wear bee suits, handle live bees and use microscopes to in-
spect diseases in beehives.
Sanchez said the class will help 
the state’s bee population since warm weather and pesticides at this time of year can be harmful to the production of beehives.
“The idea is to provide infor-
mation that will help beekeep-ers with specific tasks at specific 
times in the year,” Sanchez said.Ray Goldwire, a backyard bee-
keeper and the historian of the Gainesville Area Bee Club, is one 
of about 100 members to meet the first Thursday of every month to participate in educational out-reach seminars for beekeepers.
Goldwire said although the 
drought in Gainesville this sum-mer has been detrimental to a 
successful honey-bee season, there are many ways to avoid a 
dying beehive — including in-
forming nearby gardeners of the 
beehives so pesticides don’t in-hibit their growth.
“Beekeeping in Florida is very 
important,” Goldwire said. “But 
the ones that have it as a hobby 
help pollinate the surrounding area and create local, non-pesti-
cide-contaminated honey.”Alachua County, UF Bee Unit to host beekeeping classBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Newell Hall put the finishing touch-
es on a brand-new 14-foot public piece 
of high-art installation Monday.
The sculpture is meant to represent 
the agricultural history of the building while also tying in the themes of the learning center — connection, growth 
and the germination of ideas, Newell 
Hall’s project manager Howie Fergu-son wrote in an email.
Ferguson said the designers planned 
on including a public piece of art to the 
new building, but they waited until af-
ter the project was complete to install the above-ground sculpture.
“There’s too much going on with a 
major project, particularly at the end,” Ferguson said. “So it was better for all, including the artist, to let the construc-tion process wrap up first.”
One of the main goals of the sculp-
ture is to provide art for everyone, Fer-
guson said. He added that the location 
and size of the sculpture may offer re-
juvenation for students hard at work inside the building.
“This and other public art adds 
depth and richness to the campus, and 
also hopefully encourages people to 
think,” Ferguson said.
While everyone’s personal taste in artwork is different, Ferguson said he is hopeful that most people will enjoy 
the sculpture, which was signed by 
Watkins Design, a fine arts company based in Athens, New York. Ferguson said those working on the project plan on adding a plaque, which will explain 
the significance of the piece.
Brian Turney, a UF applied physiol-
ogy and kinesiology junior who studies 
at Newell Hall a few times a week, said 
he thinks the artwork is very abstract.
“I think it’s a good thing to look at 
if you’re going down this road,” the 
19-year-old said, referring to Stadium Road. “It might attract your attention 
to this building.”
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgAgricultural art installation erected 
on Newell Hall’s front lawn
“This and other public art adds 
depth and richness to the campus, 
and also hopefully encourages 
people to think.”
Howie Ferguson
Newell Hall Project ManagerTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
UNIVERSITY BOX OFFICE:  
(352) 392-1653 or www.ticketmaster.comA Choose Your Own Tragedy 
— A Comedy!
Not appropriate for children under 12.Magnificent
Revengers in...The
By Catherine Rudd
Alligator Contributing Writer
After noticing a group of bats liv-
ing in a gazebo at a local park, a city 
employee decided to build them a 
new home.
John Weber, the city’s parks op-
erations manager, decided the new 
bat house would be a good assign-
ment for Gainesville resident Connor Honeycutt, who was looking for a project to complete during his Eagle Scout training.
With the help of his dad and an 
assistant parks operations manager, 
Honeycutt built a 15-foot bat house to serve as a daytime shelter for about 
200 bats at Possum Creek Park, locat-
ed at 4009 NW 53rd Ave.
The materials and construction of 
the structure cost a little more than $200. The house, which was built out 
of ﬁ  brous wood, was installed in the 
park in April.
“Honeycutt got to design the 
house himself,” Weber said. “It was his vision.”
Weber said the City of Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department has discussed installing additional bat houses in local parks 
as a way of attracting more citizens.
“Having the bat house at the park 
is another attraction parkgoers can 
experience when the sun starts to 
set,” he said. 
Weber said the bat house was 
built to provide a suitable home for 
the local bat population. “The bats will help control mos-
quitos and provide a unique experi-ence for those who visit the park,” he said.
Across from Lake Alice at UF, two 
bat houses serve as home to more than 100,000 bats, according to the 
Florida Wildlife Extension website.
“Whenever I have visitors, I love 
to take them to the bat house,” said 
Carolina Fernandez, a UF English se-
nior. “I can’t wait to visit the new bat 
house.”New bat house installed 
at Possum Creek ParkUNIVERSITY
SOME WANT TO MAKE 
UNIFIED COMMITMENT 
TO SUSTAINABILITY.
By Sophie Feinberg 
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the sustainability move-
ment gains traction, the medi-
cal ﬁ  eld is looking toward 
implementing earth-conscious 
practices.
However, implementing sus-
tainability in the medical world 
can have many obstacles that 
facilities like UF Health Shands Hospital are working to over-come.
“The hospital is a really chal-
lenging institution,” said Liz Storn, a program coordinator for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainabil-ity. “Largely because they are 
very separate in a lot of ways.” 
Storn said there are physical 
barriers, such as no separate 
recycling chutes and contract barriers regarding who can do 
what. 
Some physicians think that 
sustainability and medical care 
are linked. 
Dr. Lauren Berkow, a UF 
associate professor and direc-tor of anesthesia supplies and equipment, joined Shands’ De-partment of Anesthesiology last summer. 
Before joining UF, Berkow 
worked at Johns Hopkins Uni-versity for 16 years, where one of her many roles involved fo-cusing on sustainability. 
Berkow said when she got to 
Shands, she wanted to explore the hospital’s environmentally conscious efforts.
“I discovered there wasn’t 
really a sustainability commit-tee in the hospital, and that there really wasn’t any uniﬁ  ed group that was working on it,” 
she said.
From there, she worked to 
understand the complex hospi-
tal waste stream and make an effort to start a uniﬁ  ed group 
committed to sustainability at 
Shands.
“Surprisingly, we got a lot 
of people interested,” Berkow 
said.
The working group has met 
once a month since November 
and has members from various levels across the hospital, cam-
pus, city and county. 
Berkow said hospitals are a 
unique environment for imple-
menting sustainability because 
they use more energy than most 
commercial entities, run 24/7 and are responsible for about 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.                                                 
She said most medical school 
curriculum and residency train-ings do not educate clinicians on how to implement sustain-
ability in their practice. 
Dr. Alice Rhoton-Vlasak, a 
UF associate professor of wom-
en’s health and obstetrics and gynecology, has been on faculty 
for about 18 years as a repro-
ductive medicine specialist. 
She said one obstacle is con-
vincing people in charge that such practices are valuable by gathering more evidence.
“If you can’t live a sustain-
able life yourself, how can you 
watch out for Earth, our plants 
and animals and all the things that depend on us to be good stewards?” she said. “We owe it to the world around us.”At UF Health Shands, limited 
awareness for sustainability
Courtesy to the Alligator
The 15-foot structure will house 
about 200 bats.
“If you can’t live a sustainable 
life yourself, how can you 
watch out for Earth, our 
plants and animals and all 
the things that depend on us 
to be good stewards?”
Dr. Alice Rhoton-Vlasak
UF associate professorBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
3BR/2.5BA new upscale condo in Haile 
Plantation Market Square. Modern finishes throughout: custom cabinetry, granite coun-tertops, stainless steel appliances, wood floors in open living area, tile bathrooms. On bus route, walking distance to Publix, restaurants, shopping, tennis courts, and more. Two units available. Each unit is ap-prox. 1450 sq/ft. Private balcony avail with one unit. $1875/month for each unit. Avail July, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.      6-27-17-5-2
3BR/3BA Beautiful Home with Vaulted Ceilings, Laminate Wood Floors. Located Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hospital, and VA Medical Centers. Screen Porch, 2 Car Garage, Fenced Yard, Energy Efficient. W/D, Lawn Main, and Pest Control all Included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Aug. $1875/month. Contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.    6-27-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-14-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-3901    6-13-17-8-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Apt for rent 720 NW 19th Ave. Available July 1. 2BR/1BA, W/D, completely remodeled, large backyard. Monthly rent $685, $800 security deposit. Call 352-371-3473. Please leave message  6-6-17-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatest
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Farm Help Wanted:Experience operating yard/farm mainte-nance equipment required; 8-10 hrs per week (Fridays and weekends) ; private farm in Alachua, Florida; must provide own trans-portation. 352-258-3571    6-6-17-5-14Very fast paced law office in search of a paralegal. Must have a college degree. Well developed organizational, communication, and analytical skills required. Must have ex-cellent computer, verbal and written skills. Employee insurance is provided by employ -
er. Paid holidays and vacation time is also provided by the employer. Email resume to PCD@nabjr.com.     6-8-17-4-14
CASHIER NEEDEDExperienced, dependable, reliable. References needed. Backgound check & drug test required. Foodmax Foodstore, 404 S Main St, 32601.   6-27-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Designated drivers are the greatest
1. In 2015, Miami’s Dee Gordon led 
the National League in batting aver -
age and steals. Who was the last play-
er before Gordon to do it?
2. Who was the last Detroit Tigers 
pitcher before Jordan Zimmerman in 
2016 to win five games in the month 
of April?
3. How many more seasons did Don 
Shula coach the Miami Dolphins after his last Super Bowl appearance?
4. Who was the all-time leading 
scorer for Duke men’s basketball before J.J. Redick (2,769 points) broke the record in 2006?
5. Name the last NHL team to lose 
at least their first eight games of the season before Columbus did it in the 
2015-16 season.
6. When was the last time before 
2016 that the MLS Cup was decided 
by penalty kicks?
7. British cyclist Bradley Wiggins 
holds the country’s record for most Olympic medals. How many?
Answers
1. Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn 
Dodgers, in 1949.
2. Frank Tanana, in 1988.3. Eleven seasons after the Dolphins’ 
loss in Super Bowl XIX following the 
1984 season.
4. Johnny Dawkins, with 2,556 
points.
5. The New York Rangers lost 11 in a 
row to begin the 1943-44 season.
6. It was 2013, when Sporting Kan-
sas City defeated Real Salt Lake.
7. Eight medals, including five golds.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 5, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Part of AAA:
Abbr.
5 Utopian sites
10 Abrasive sand
bits
14 Round caramel
candy
15 Get Mad again?
16 Like some
Chardonnay
17 Kingdom given to
Esau
18 *Lighthouse
landmark in
Honolulu
20 “E,” on
dashboards
22 Photographer’s
stand
23 *Club batting first,
in baseball
25 Chain of hills
29 Madame, in
Tijuana
30 Starts of typical
workweeks
32 Confer holy
orders upon
35 One-named
body-image
advocate
36 *Capital that’s
home to LadyBird Lake
39 Stumble
41 Pic next to a
screen name
42 Bombardment
44 Breeds, as cattle49 What Bo Peep
lost
50 *Treaded combat
vehicle
52 St. Francis’
birthplace
55 Burst of
gunshots
56 Best place to be,
slangily ... and,
when divided infour parts, whatthe answers tostarred cluesare?
60 Bear’s home
61 Made on a loom62 Choppers63 “How __ Your
Mother”
64 Chilled with
cubes
65 Position paper
66 Helps outDOWN
1 Sports venues
2 “Us, too!”3 “I’m Lovin’ It” or
“Just Do It,” e.g.
4 Dieter’s sandwich
spec
5 Historic period
6 Triangular river
formation
7 Huge, to a poet8 Grape soda
brand
9 Even trade
10 “That’s using
your head!”
11 How oysters are
often served
12 Eisenhower’s
nickname
13 Norse god of war
19 Ripped21 Houston
baseballers,
briefly
24 Livestock
identifier
26 Beaver creations
27 Workout spot28 Linguistic suffix30 Catcher’s glove31 Feature of Vegas
“bandits”
33 Go off the high
board34 Santa __,
California
36 Suffix with billion
37 Lifted38 Dental exam
pictures
39 Atlanta-based
cable channel
40 Crowd cheer43 Cathedral recess45 Roma is its capital46 Hanging deli meat47 Was jealous of48 Hybrid garments50 Burden-bearing
beasts
51 Gaucho’s rope
53 Internet location
54 Suffix for natives56 1914-’18 conflict,
briefly
57 Ad __ committee58 Mother of Cain
and Abel
59 Commandments
pronoun
By Mark McClain
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/06/1706/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Notre Dame quarterback Malik Zaire conﬁ  rmed this weekend he intends to transfer to UF. Read the story, pg. 14.
UF softball loses in ﬁ  rst game of WCWS
The Florida women's softball team lost game one of the Women's College 
World Series on Monday 7-5 against Oklahoma in 17 innings. Game two is scheduled for tonight at 8 p.m.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
A pair of errors from Bethune-
Cookman ﬁ  rst baseman Danny Ro-
driguez put Mike Rivera and Nelson 
Maldonado on second and third base, respectively, in the top of the sixth.
The Wildcats were furious, claim-
ing Rivera interfered on the catch and should’ve been called out. In the heat of the play, Rodriguez threw the ball away at second, allowing 
Florida's runners to get into scoring 
position.
The Gators quickly made Bet-
hune-Cookman pay for those errors.
On the next at-bat, pitcher Austin 
Langworthy blasted a home run over the right ﬁ  eld wall, giving UF a 3-0 
lead and providing Florida with its ﬁ  rst score of the game.
“It was awesome, we needed 
that because we were playing a little 
tense in the beginning,” third base-
man Jonathan India said. “That was a great at bat by him to come through like that for us.”
Langworthy’s shot, alongside 
a pivotal career-high four innings pitched, helped Florida advance to the NCAA Super Regional with a 
6-1 win over Bethune-Cookman on 
Monday at McKethan Stadium. 
The Gators beneﬁ  tted from three 
solid pitching performances. Kirby McMullen got the start, throwing 2.2 
innings and allowing just three hits 
and striking out one batter. 
Florida then turned to Langwor-
thy, who was in left ﬁ  eld at the time, to come in and provide a few 
innings. He gave them enough time 
until Michael Byrne could close out the game for the Gators.
Langworthy gave up just two 
hits and one run over four innings, 
and struck out three batters. And 
while he was on the mound keep-ing the Wildcats from taking over a 
tight game, the Williston native col-
lected two important hits, including 
the home run, to allow the Gators to 
break the game wide open.
“Pound the strike zone,” Lang-
worthy said. “That was my mindset. 
Simple as that.”
Byrne entered in the seventh in-
ning and closed out the game by let- Gators win NCAA Regional in dramatic fashion
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Austin Langworthy stands in the batter's box during 
UF's 2-0 win against Miami on Feb. 25, 2017.
There are a lot of things about Lane 
Kifﬁ  n that give me pause.
A lot.
He was ﬁ  red by Nick Saban as Ala-
bama’s offensive coordinator seven days 
before this year’s national championship game.
He abandoned the Tennessee Volun-
teers in 2010 one season after signing a six-year $14.25 million contract with the university.
He was even called a “ﬂ  at-out liar” 
and a “disgrace” by late NFL owner Al Davis in a televised press conference in 2008 where the Oakland Raiders an-nounced they were relieving the coach 
of his duties.
Spotty track record to say the least. 
Yikes.
But if there’s one thing that gives me 
pause above any of the other question-able antics surrounding Kifﬁ  n, it’s his 
recent recruiting efforts.
The now current head coach of the 
FAU Owls recently offered a scholarship 
to quarterback Pierce Clarkson, the son 
of former CFL quarterback Steve Clark-son.
The problem?Pierce only just graduated from sixth 
grade.
Let that sink in for a second, and I’ll 
repeat it again for good measure.
Lane Kifﬁ  n recently offered a middle 
schooler an athletic scholarship to play football at Florida Atlantic University starting in 2023.
What?This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time he’s done this 
either.
Last month, he offered another schol-
arship to 13-year-old quarterback Kaden Martin, son of current USC offensive co-
ordinator Tee Martin. And in 2010, he  Coaches need 
to stop oﬀ  ering 
middle schoolers 
scholarshipsYou’re Dylan Me Smalls
Dylan Dixon
twitter: @dylanrdixon
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15T eresa M. Walker
Associated Press
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Predators 
coach Peter Laviolette heard all the ques-
tions and criticism of Pekka Rinne after the 
goaltender’s struggles in the Stanley Cup 
Final in Pittsburgh.
Well, Laviolette never thought of 
switching goalies.
A change of scenery helped Rinne and 
all his Nashville teammates as they domi-nated once again on their own ice for the biggest piece of franchise history yet.
A victory in the Stanley Cup Final.
Roman Josi and Frederick Gaudreau 
scored 42 seconds apart in the second pe-
riod, and the Predators beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 5-1 Saturday night to pull with-
in 2-1 in the best-of-seven series. Rinne 
started and made 27 saves against a Pitts-burgh team that continued to struggle on the power play and lacked the same zip they had in winning the ﬁ  rst two games at home.
“There was no decision,” Laviolette 
said of changing goalies. “He was terriﬁ  c. I said that after Game 2. He’s been the back-bone for our team. He’s been excellent. His game tonight was rock solid.”
The Predators capped the biggest party 
in Nashville history with a victory that gave thousands of fans inside and outside of the arena reason to celebrate. Country star Keith Urban and wife, actress Nicole 
Kidman, were high-ﬁ  ving inside the arena 
and they had plenty of company. Credit Rinne for coming through with a stingy performance and helping the Predators im-
prove to 8-1 at home this postseason.
The 6-foot-5 Finn looked so shaky in 
the ﬁ  rst two games, giving up eight goals 
on just 36 shots. Laviolette benched him in the third period of Game 2 when Rinne 
gave up three goals in the ﬁ  rst 3:28 of a 
4-1 loss.Rinne said he changed nothing and 
knew he was playing all the time. Nash-ville fans did their best to lift his spirits by 
chanting his name in pre-game warm-ups.
“Collectively we came into the lock-
er room, and we were telling each other 
we’ve never seen anything like that,” 
Rinne said.
Josi also had two assists. James Neal, 
Craig Smith and Mattias Ekholm also 
scored for Nashville as the Predators worked out some frustration against the 
Pens.
“Like our team has done the whole play-
offs against Chicago, St. Louis, Anaheim, 
we showed really good composure,” said 
Nashville defenseman P.K. Subban, who 
had predicted a win in Game 3. “We’re go-ing to take that into the next game.”
Game 4 is Monday night.Pittsburgh coach Mike Sullivan said he  Nashville Predators tie Stanley Cup Finals 
with 4-1 win over Pittsburgh PenguinsBASEBALL
NHL
SEE NHL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Following a spring riddled with 
questions over who will be leading 
Florida’s offense in 2017, the Gators’ situation under center got even murkier this weekend.
Former Notre Dame quarterback 
Malik Zaire conﬁ  rmed to multiple media outlets on Saturday that he plans to join UF’s football program as a graduate transfer this upcoming season.
Zaire has one year of eligibility 
remaining as a redshirt junior and will be available to play immediately. 
He appeared in 17 games and 
made three starts over his career with the Fighting Irish, completing 58-of-98 passes and throwing six touchdowns with no interceptions.
Zaire will visit UF’s campus 
on Wednesday where he hopes to ﬁ  nalize the graduate transfer process, according to ESPN.
“It’s just everything really 
solidifying things,” Zaire said to 
ESPN’s Tom VanHaaren. “Making 
sure it feels how I know it would be of making it a home. If everything goes as planned, I’m a Gator, but of course the visit is important to take everything in.”
Florida still needs to settle an 
academic issue with the former Notre Dame quarterback before 
ofﬁ  cially announcing his transfer, 
according to ESPN.
Zaire is expected to compete for 
the starting job along with Feleipe Franks, Kyle Trask and Luke Del Rio.With Del Rio unable to participate 
in the spring due to shoulder surgery, Franks and Trask emerged as the two frontrunners to win the role.
Franks then outperformed Trask 
in Florida’s spring game on April 7, leading coach Jim McElwain to 
admit the redshirt freshman was 
“ahead” in the starting quarterback battle.
But with Zaire now in the mix, 
the Gators have another credible option under center.
UF has exactly 89 days to decide 
who will lead its offense before it heads to Arlington, Texas, on Sept. 2 
to face Michigan in its regular season 
opener.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Former  Notre Dame QB Malik Zaire conﬁ  rms transfer to UF
The Associated Press
Malik Zaire passes during Notre Dame’s 38-3 win against T exas on 
Sept. 5, 2015. Zaire is expected to transfer to UF this week.
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
On May 13, the UF men’s and women’s 
track and ﬁ  eld teams saw three athletes 
crowned as SEC champions in their individual events.
Two weeks later, they wrapped up a solid 
performance at the NCAA East Preliminary in Lexington, Kentucky, by compiling 26 total 
entries in the NCAA qualiﬁ  er.
Then, on May 31, Grant Holloway was 
named the SEC Outdoor Freshman Runner of 
the Year at the 2017 SEC Outdoor Track and Field Awards. Holloway was one of 16 Gators to earn All-SEC honors.
And on Wednesday, the Gators hope to 
carry that momentum into the NCAA Outdoor Championships in Eugene, Oregon.
A year ago, the men’s team edged out 
Arkansas to ﬁ  nish in ﬁ  rst place, marking the 
eighth consecutive year coach Mike Holloway 
saw the men post a top-three ﬁ  nish in the national competition.
The women, on the other hand, ﬁ  nished 
tied for ninth place, marking the third straight season they ﬁ  nished in the top-10 at the NCAA Outdoor Championships.Grant Holloway, who will compete in the 
110-meter hurdles and the long jump, as well as junior KeAndre Bates, who will participate in the triple jump and the long jump, headline the men’s team.
On the women’s side, redshirt senior Kyra 
Jefferson leads the way and is competing in the 
200-meter.
Junior Darrielle McQueen will also join 
sophomore Yanis David in the triple jump and 
long jump.
David had a strong showing as a freshman 
last year, ﬁ  nishing third in the triple jump.
Other notables for the Gators include  Andres Arroyo in the 800-meter and TJ Holmes and Eric Futch, who are both competing in the 400-meter hurdles.
Junior Lloydricia Cameron, the 2017 
SEC shot put champion, will compete in the same event, while senior Shayla Sanders will represent her team in the 100-meter.
The men’s and women’s relay teams will 
also be there, as both groups made the cut in the 4x100 and 4x400 relays.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org  Gators ready to compete in NCAA Outdoor ChampionshipsTRACK & FIELDTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
ting up just two hits. That was his 16th 
save of the season.
Florida’s offense took a while to get 
going, but once it did, it allowed the Gators to take full control of the game. 
UF started with back-to-back singles 
from Jonathan India and Dalton Guthrie in the top of the first, but couldn’t put any runs on the board. The Gators would only record one more hit until the sixth inning, 
when Langworthy gave Florida a 3-0 lead.
Guthrie tacked a run on in the seventh with a single that scored in India, and out-
fielder Nick Horvath sent one deep to al-low Langworthy to tag up from third. The Gators added one more insurance run for good measure in the ninth, with Maldo-nado singling in India with two outs.
Despite a slow start, Florida benefitted 
from three hits from Maldonado and two hits from India, Guthrie and Langworthy. The last time the Gators had at least ten hits was in a 12-3 win against Mississippi State on May 26 in the SEC Tournament. 
“They gave us everything we could 
handle these last two days,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said. “We won a very emo-tional game Saturday night against South 
Florida. Marist game us everything we could handle as well. That was not an easy regional for us, but we figured it out." 
The Gators can now look ahead to a 
looming matchup with Wake Forest in the NCAA Super Regional. The Demon Deacons enter the series following a three-game sweep in the Winston-Salem Regional.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
offered a scholarship to then-13-year-old 
quarterback David Sills to play for USC back when he was still head coach of the 
Trojans.
Why Lane Kiffin? Why?
I can understand wanting to prepare for 
the future, but doesn’t it seem a little early to be recruiting for the class of 2023?
It turns out, however, Kiffin is far from 
the only coach to ever offer a scholarship to a preteen.
According to LeBron James, his 12-year-
old son, LeBron James Jr., has already re-ceived offers from both Duke and Kentucky.
His response?“It’s pretty crazy,” James told CBS De-
troit in 2015. “It should be a violation. You 
shouldn’t be recruiting 10-year-old kids.”
LeBron’s logic is 100 percent spot on. 
Kids shouldn’t have to deal with the pres-
sure and notoriety of receiving an athletic 
scholarship at such a young age. But when 
it comes to the NCAA, that logic falls short.
The NCAA states that “a student who 
has not started classes for the ninth grade becomes a prospective student-athlete if the 
institution provides such an individual (or 
the individual’s relatives or friends) any fi-nancial assistance or other benefits that the institution does not provide to prospective students generally.”
So to summarize that horribly-worded 
rule, basically anyone at any age is fair game to be recruited to play college sports, whether they like it or not.
And that’s a problem.
While there aren’t many middle school-
ers who receive athletic scholarships, the 
ones who do get put under a tremendous amount of stress.
Just ask David Sills, who I mentioned 
earlier as receiving an offer when he was 13 from Kiffin to play quarterback for the Trojans.
“I never asked for any of it,” Sills said 
to Bleacher Report about the attention he received.
Sills, who ended up going to West Vir-
ginia instead before transferring to El Cami-no College, said the weight of high expecta-
tions as an early teenager was too much to 
for him to handle.
And I can’t blame him. The NCAA needs 
to put its foot down and keep coaches like 
Kiffin from continuing to put that unwanted 
pressure on 13-year-olds.
It’s for the benefit of everyone involved.
 
Dylan Dixon is sports editor of the Alligator. His column's run regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Associated Press
Lane Kiffin speaks at his introductory press conference as FAU's football coach on Dec. 13, 2016, in Boca Raton, Florida.
The Associated Press
The Nashville Predators celebrate their 4-1 win against the Pittsburgh Penguins on Monday in game four of the Stanley Cup Finals in Nashville.
Byrne earned his 16th save of the season
BASEBALL,  from pg 13
thought his Penguins gave up a couple 
of easy goals.
“We’re disappointed we didn’t get 
the result, but we also understand that this is a series,” Sullivan said. “Our guys, they’ve been through this. They can draw on their experience. We’re not 
going to let this certainly get us down. 
We’re going to learn from it, move by it 
and get ready for the next game.”
Captain Sidney Crosby did not have 
a shot on goal, and neither did Evgeni 
Malkin.
“Hopefully a game like this is some-
thing that’s a hard lesson,” Crosby said. “But we’ve got to make sure we’re bet-ter.”
Jake Guentzel scored his 13th goal 
this postseason and fourth of this series for Pittsburgh and now is one off Dino Ciccarelli’s rookie record of 14 in 1981 for Minnesota. Guentzel, already with 
two game-winning goals in the series, 
put the Penguins up 1-0 on their second shot with a wrister off a rebound of Ian Cole that beat Rinne just 2:46 into the game.
Rinne stopped the next 26 shots for 
the victory and the party continued into the night.
Early on, Matt Murray extended his 
scoreless streak to 72:54 with the Pitts-burgh goalie looking ready to notch his 21st playoff win. Then he gave up five goals in the span of 15 shots and the cat-fish watch was on.The Predators got it started with a 
three-goal flurry in the second.
Josi scored his sixth goal off a slap 
shot at 5:51, tying it at 1-1 and finally giving nervous fans something to enjoy. 
Then Gaudreau, who scored his first ca-
reer NHL goal in Game 1, scored 42 sec-onds later to put Nashville ahead with his wrister from the high slot, taking ad-vantage of a screen by Penguins defense-
man Ian Cole to beat Murray glove-side.
Just after that go-ahead goal, the 
Penguins had a rush on Rinne, and the 
three-time Vezina Trophy finalist made 
back-to-back big saves. First, he stopped 
Phil Kessel’s wrister from the right cir-cle. The rebound bounced back into the slot, and Rinne made a save on Chris Kunitz with an assist from Subban slid-
ing over to help.
Neal made it 3-1 with 22.6 seconds 
left in the second, banking the puck off 
Murray’s left arm for his first goal in the 
series and sixth of the playoffs. Smith’s 
goal on a breakaway at 4:54 was his first of the playoffs, and Ekholm padded the lead with a power-play goal with 6:50 left.
“We played some good hockey in 
those first two games, just a couple little breakdowns and they jumped all over us and it was in the back of the net,” Neal 
said. “It was a good job of limiting that 
tonight.”
As for Rinne, Neal added: “We felt we 
left him out to dry a few times in the last game. I thought we did a better job 
tonight.”
COLUMN,  from pg 13Rinne stopped the final 26 shots
NHL,  from pg 13FLORIDA'S TOP PERFORMERS
LF/P Austin Langworthy:  
2-for-4, three RBIs, 
four innings pitched, win
RF Nelson Maldonado:
3-for-4, one RBI, one run
P Michael Byrne:
2.1 innings pitched, 
two strikeouts, save16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University Avenue
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti follows through on his swing during 
the the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 18, 2017, at Mark Bostick Golf Course.
MEN’S GOLF
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
He found his love for the sport while 
watching the Masters at 5 years old. 
He grew up learning to play golf with a deodorant ball, plastic bag and a charcoal 
grill tool that barely resembled a putter.
Now, 20-year-old Alejandro Tosti is 
one of the most dominant players on the 
Florida men’s golf team.
He was one of two Gators to ﬁ  nish 
this season with six top-ten ﬁ  nishes and 
was the ﬁ  rst player on the team to secure 
an individual title with his win at the Tavistock Collegiate on Oct. 18.
However, in his hometown of Rosario, 
Argentina, golf isn’t the most popular sport around. Soccer and basketball dominate the country, with many younger kids growing up idolizing the native stars in those sports.
But there was never a doubt in Tosti’s 
mind. He was set on playing golf. 
He started in his backyard, where he 
took the stick his family used to clean their charcoal grill and use it as a putter. 
His father gave him a deodorant ball, 
and his brother removed the cover from a drainage pipe and used a plastic bag to act as a hole for Tosti.
He played with that same stick and 
deodorant ball for months, having so much fun that, shortly after his sixth birthday, he decided to ask his parents a very important question.
“I asked my parents to play golf,” Tosti 
said. “(My parents) were saying ‘golf is 
for rich people. We don’t know nothing 
about golf.’”
Instead, his parents asked him about 
playing basketball. But Tosti, who is heading into his senior year at UF, was positive he was making the right deicision.
“I was determined because I was really 
young,” he said. “(My parents) started 
taking me to classes, and the ﬁ  rst class 
they gave me a club.”
After a year of learning the sport from instructors, Tosti was ﬁ  nally ready to play competitively.
His parents frequently took him to 
tournaments, and it didn’t take long for the Argentinian to ﬁ  nd success.
“My second week I played in a 
tournament, I ﬁ  nished third place and got a medal,” he said. “And that thing… was the best thing that could ever happen to me.”
Tosti went on to practice every other 
day at Club Mitre de Pérez an hour away from his home.
With his parents sporting a grueling 
work schedule and no time to take him 
to the club, Tosti’s only option was taking 
the bus.
“I would call them an hour and ﬁ  fteen 
minutes before I left the club and tell them I was leaving,” Tosti said.
His parents would then treck to the 
bus stop and wait for him to get back.
“It was really cool, they put a lot 
of effort into supporting me and even 
stopped doing things to help me,” he said. 
“It was great to see that they didn’t do it for any purpose, just supporting me and loving me.”
By the age of 9, Tosti was competing 
in national tournaments and winning at a pretty high rate.
At the age of 13, Tosti was assigned 
to play for the Argentine national team, 
where he was given the opportunity to 
travel outside of the country. One of his ﬁ  rst trips ever was to the United States.
“At 14 years old, I could barely speak 
English, and after the trip, I realized that if I wanted to come here, I had to start studying English,” he said.
By 2013, Tosti was ﬁ  elding offers from 
numerous colleges when he met UF men’s 
golf assistant John Handrigan.
“I ﬁ  rst saw him play at a tournament 
down in South Florida,” Handrigan said. 
“Then I went... and saw him play when he was in Columbia playing for the (Argentine) national team. After that, we knew we wanted him to be a Gator.”When Florida began recruiting the 
Argentinian, it didn’t take Tosti long to decide Gainesville was where he wanted to go.
“Knowing the past players that have 
been through the University of Florida, 
that caught my attention a lot,” he said. 
“And knowing also that it’s in Florida, it’s good weather... That was kind of the perfect plan. Once I started talking to Florida, that was my main objective.”
Coach J.C. Deacon also remembers 
the ﬁ  rst time he met Tosti in the spring of 2015.
“He just showed up on campus and 
walked in (my ofﬁ  ce),” Deacon said. “I had spoken with him a lot… but that was the ﬁ  rst time I met him.”
Deacon said Tosti has changed 
tremendously since he arrived at UF in early 2015, noting the initial difﬁ  culties that came with learning a new language.
“I think it was tough for him,” Deacon 
said. “But he’s learned a whole new 
culture. He’s learned a new language. 
His English is perfect now, that’s really impressive. He’s learned how to study, learned how to practice, learned how to do things differently here.”
Tosti and the Gators capped off the 
2016-17 season with a fourth place ﬁ  nish at the SEC Championship before failing to advance past the NCAA Regional in late 
May.
Despite falling short of a national title, 
Tosti was the individual winner at the SEC 
Championship, ﬁ  nishing at 10-under-par and beating Vanderbilt’s Patrick Martin in the second hole of a playoff.
Deacon had high praise for his 
upperclassman, who will return next season for his ﬁ  nal year on the team.
“He has it all,” Deacon said. “This is 
his life dream, to play on the PGA Tour, and be a world-class player.
“I want him to want it.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org Alejandro Tosti: A boyhood dream becomes reality 