We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
SFC teaching zoo hosts Halloween event
Admission was replaced with a canned food donation, pg. 4
Guest column: Mental health needs priority
The director of the Counseling & Wellness Center speaks out, pg. 7QB competition opens up
Interim coach Randy Shannon said whoever 
looks best in practice will start at Missouri, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 30
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE DISPENSARY DELIVERS 
TO PATIENTS’ HOMES.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
About ﬁ  ve months after Gainesville’s 
ﬁ  rst medical marijuana dispensary opened, 
a second started serving patients Friday. 
Trulieve, a Florida-based medical mari-
juana provider, opened its 10th in-state lo-cation at 1527 NW Sixth St., for patients to 
visit and pick up their medication, spokes-person Victoria Walker said. The company 
had delivered medical marijuana to pa-
tients’ Gainesville homes before its store opened.
Patients registered through the Florida 
Department of Health for medical mari-juana use can purchase products, includ-
ing oils, concentrates, creams, capsules and 
herb, Walker said. 
“Our goal is to provide very high-quality 
medication, to educate and be a good part of every community that we’re in,” she said. Dr. Henry Young, assistant medical di-
rector at UF’s Department of Emergency 
Medicine, wrote in an email that the plant 
should be studied more, although it is an alternative to medications like opioids.
Medical marijuana has helped to treat 
children with epilepsy, cancer patients with severe nausea and people with multiple 
sclerosis, he said. 
“The medicinal marijuana dispensaries 
could offer our Alachua County population an alternative therapy,” he said. 
Alexa Rivera, a UF family, youth and 
community sciences junior, said she uses marijuana to treat serious headaches or 
anxiety. She said the more access people have to medicinal marijuana to treat their 
pain, the better. 
“I support it 1,000 percent,” the 24-year-
old said. “You don’t get addicted to it the way you get addicted to what’s inside a pill 
bottle.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Second medical marijuana 
dispensary opened FridayAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The Turlington Plaza potato, a campus landmark, was decorated to look like Mr. Potato 
Head in celebration of Halloween on Tuesday. 
HE ORIGINALL Y PROPOSED 
RENAMING A SECTION OF 
13TH STREET, OR DR. MARTIN 
LUTHER KING JR HIGHWAY.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After immediate community push-
back, Sen. Keith Perry amended his pro-posal to rename a Gainesville roadway after late singer Tom Petty.
Perry, who represents Alachua, Put-
nam and northern Marion County in the Florida State Senate, ﬁ  led a bill Mon-day to rename a portion of Southwest 13th Street, otherwise known Dr. Mar-tin Luther King Jr. Highway, after the Gainesville native. 
By Tuesday afternoon, after more 
than 30 complaints from residents, Per-ry’s ofﬁ  ce announced that the proposal for Tom Petty Memorial Highway would instead be set for Southwest 34th Street. 
“It was a little premature,” Perry 
said of his original proposal. “I certainly should’ve reached out to a more diverse group of people.”Perry said he thought of South-
west 13th Street ﬁ  rst because residents reached out after the late singer’s death 
and described the roadway as signiﬁ  cant 
to his music. 
The section that would have been re-
named stretches from West University Avenue to Southwest 16th Avenue and 
borders Beaty Towers, which is rumored 
to be the setting of the late singer’s song “American Girl.” 
Petty died at 66 from cardiac arrest 
Oct. 2 after a lifetime career in music, 
making it into the Rock and Roll Hall of 
Fame in 2002. 
Evelyn Foxx, president of the Alachua 
County branch of the NAACP, said she was shocked to hear about the proposal. 
Foxx said she received at least 25 emails 
and posts on Facebook from residents of 
all races who were shocked by Perry’s 
proposal.
“It was a bad move for him to even 
consider something like that,” Foxx said. 
“It was just a bad idea.” 
Perry and Foxx discussed possible 
amendments to the bill Tuesday after-Sen. Perry moves proposed 
Petty memorial to 34th St. 
SEE PETTY,  PAGE 4
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
When Yahai Eldeib was training for 
the 2017 Rowing World Championships, 
he often spent his days alone in the Flor-
ida crew boat house or Newnan’s Lake. 
Eldeib, a 19-year-old UF computer en-
gineering sophomore, worked on his craft 
twice a day, averaging at least 10 prac-
tices a week.
Since Eldeib was 17, he has rowed 
competitively for the Egypt national team. In September he represented Egypt in the 
Rowing World Championships in Sara-
sota, Florida.
At the championship, as the youngest 
person in his event, Eldeib placed 22nd in the lightweight double race.  
“I was racing against world champi-
ons, Olympic champions,” he said. “Com-
peting against them was the most awe-
some experience for me.”
Eldeib began his rowing career his 
freshman year of high school while living in Egypt. He moved to the country at the age of 11 from Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Both of his parents are Egyptian, which 
inspired their move. 
“My dad wanted me and my little sis-
ters to know the language and culture of 
Egypt,” Eldeib said. 
Eldeib was quick to success once he 
began rowing. 
As a freshman, he placed third in 
Egypt’s under-16 junior national champi-onships. The next year he placed second 
in the under-18 junior nationals. His se-
nior year he again placed second in na-
tionals and was recruited by Egypt’s un-
der-18 national team. 
While on the national team, Eldeib 
went to the Arab rowing championships to represent Egypt in 2016. 
He started as a freshman at UF that 
year. Eldeib said he chose UF for the su-
perior education compared to Egyptian 
schools.
During his freshman season, Eldeib UF student rows 
competitively for Egypt
SEE ROWER,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
HIGH  79° LOW  55°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
GatorNights: The Mixtape
This Friday, GatorNights is tak-
ing to the streets with everything from old-school hoops to graffiti splatter art in the Reitz Union. 
RPB Bands will host musical 
artist Denzel Curry from 9:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom. UF’s First Generation 
Organization will be hosting a 
documentary screening and dis-
cussion from 9 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. 
in Room 2355. The featured film is “Baby Driver,” playing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 30
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 4 
p.m. from now until Wednesday, November 8. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
November 14 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the 
new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Thursday 
November 30 at 3 p.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to 
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Researcher finds new invasive ant 
species in Florida
Thomas Chouvenc identiﬁ  ed a new in-
vasive ant species in his Fort Lauderdale 
home. 
Chouvenc, a UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences researcher, noticed a trail of small, yellow ants marching across his kitchen counter. The invasive ant for 
Florida, plagiolepis alluaud, is called the 
yellow ant. 
Before the yellow ant came to Florida’s 
mainland, it was found on Caribbean is-lands. 
“Two or three ant researchers predicted 
that (the yellow ant) would be here and sure enough we eventually found it,” Chouvenc said.
The ant, a native of Madagascar, could 
be detrimental to Florida homeowners and the surrounding ecosystem, Chouvenc said. He has been studying the ant’s re-lationship with other insects and how to 
manage its population. 
The yellow ant’s presence has boosted 
the population density of aphids, ladybugs 
and other insects, he said. This inﬂ  ux could 
result in the damage of plant nurseries and 
other agricultural businesses, he said. 
“I found it interesting that when these ants show up, all these other pests show up at the same time,” Chouvenc said. “This ant is really, really good at tending 
to these insects; we have a symbiotic rela-
tionship here.”
Chouvenc said the yellow ant is almost 
impossible to detect until they’re at a high 
population density, making extermination 
difﬁ  cult.
“If the population gets fully established, 
which I think to some extent it already is, this is going to be the new norm,” he said. 
- Julia Renner
Researchers find that men are six 
times more likely to have HPV
Men are six times more likely to be 
infected with oral Human Papillomavirus 
than women, UF researchers found.
Ashish Deshmukh, an assistant profes-
sor in the UF Department of Health Servic-es Research, Management and Policy, lead the study and said it’s currently unclear 
why men are more often impacted than 
women.
While 11.5 million men have been di-
agnosed with oral HPV in the U.S., only 3.2 million women have received the same 
diagnosis, Deshmukh said. Of the men who have oral HPV, 1.7 
million have HPV 16, which is the strain 
that most often leads to cancer, he said. 
UF’s study showed that older men 
are more likely to develop the oral can-cer among men who have oral HPV. Deshmukh said a reason for this may be 
that as someone gets older, their body can-
not ﬁ  ght the infection, causing HPV to stay in their system and become a cancer.
Because HPV usually goes away natu-
rally, Deshmukh said there are no screen-
ing guidelines in place for doctors to use. 
Currently, there is no technology that 
can detect oral precancer from HPV, which 
leads to cancer, he said. 
“The solution is the HPV vaccine,” 
Deshmukh said. “It is imperative to vac-cinate boys and girls in their teen years.” 
- Josephine Fuller
UF launches study of marijuana’s 
impact on people with HIV
After two previous failed proposals, Dr. 
Robert Cook ﬁ  nally received funding for his marijuana study in August. 
The National Institute on Drug Abuse 
granted UF Health $3.2 million to conduct 
a ﬁ  ve-year study on marijuana’s health 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK (AP) — A man in a rented 
pickup truck drove onto a busy bicycle 
path near the World Trade Center memo-
rial and mowed down people Tuesday, kill-
ing at least eight and injuring several oth-ers in what New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio called “a particularly cowardly act 
of terror.”
The 29-year-old driver was shot by po-lice after jumping out of the truck with 
what turned out to be a fake gun in each hand, ofﬁ  cials said. He was taken into cus-tody.
Witnesses described a scene of panic 
and blood, with people screaming in fear and the path strewn with mangled bicycles and bodies that was soon covered with sheets. In addition to those killed, 11 peo-
ple were seriously injured, police said.
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo called it a “lone wolf” attack and said there was no 
evidence to suggest it was part of a wider plot.
Police said the vehicle, a rented Home 
Depot truck, entered the bike path on West 
Street a few blocks from the new World 
Trade Center — the site of the deadliest terror attack in U.S. history — and mowed down several people. The truck also 
slammed into a small yellow school bus, 
injuring two adults and two children.A paintball gun and a pellet gun were 
found at the scene, police said.
The attack closed roads across the west-
ern edge of Manhattan along the Hudson River and sent uniformed ofﬁ  cers rushing 
to the neighborhood as people prepared for 
Halloween festivities.
“This was an act of terror, and a par-
ticularly cowardly act of terror aimed at in-
nocent civilians,” de Blasio said.Eight killed by New York motorist in ‘cowardly act of terror’effects on people with HIV. The study is 
contingent on Florida Amendment 2, the legalization of medical marijuana, that took effect in January, Cook said. HIV is one of the approved conditions for medi-cal marijuana treatment by the Florida De-partment of Health. 
Cook said he and his research team 
will follow 360 existing medical and rec-
reational marijuana users with HIV and 40 
non-users with HIV over the course of ﬁ  ve years, starting in the beginning of 2018, to observe any health beneﬁ  ts. The group of marijuana users is made up of individu-
als who already use the drug, Cook said. 
Cook will not provide any participants with marijuana, but rather will ask ques-tions about their personal use and record 
his observations. 
“People are nervous,” he said, “But my 
study is pretty innocent.” 
Cook will also monitor the partici-
pant’s pain, which is a common side effect 
of HIV, he said. Based on preliminary evi-dence, Cook believes medical marijuana 
use for pain treatment lowers the use of 
prescription opioids, which are addictive.
“(Medical marijuana is a) safer option 
that might be more effective,” he said. 
- Eman Elshahawy
The fair will be held W ednesday outside the Reitz Union
By Nathan Haddad
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability 
will teach students about sustain-
able transportation — includ-
ing electric cars — on campus 
Wednesday. 
The annual Sustainable Trans-
portation Fair, organized by the 
UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability, will 
be held Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the northeast corner of the Reitz Union North Lawn. This is the third year the event will give students the chance to 
learn about electric vehicles, in-cluding e-bikes, Segways, and 
electric cars, said Joe Adams, the 
ofﬁ  ce manager.
“There will be members of the 
UF community there with their 
own e-vehicles to discuss their ownership experiences,” he said. 
The fair’s electric vehicle expo 
was organized to inspire students to purchase the energy-efﬁ  cient cars, said Allison Vitt, the out-
reach and communications coor-
dinator.
“If you’re curious about what 
it’s like to own or drive a Nis-san Leaf — how far do you get on this thing, do you ever run out of charge, what does that do to 
your electricity bill — this is your 
chance to talk to those people that actually own or drive those vehicles,” Vitt said. 
Adams said he hopes UF stu-
dents and faculty are inspired to reduce their greenhouse gas emis-sions after the event.
“Transportation emissions 
make up a large part of UF’s car-bon footprint,” he said. “Engag-ing sustainable transportation so-lutions is an easy and accessible way for the UF community to contribute to making UF a more sustainable campus.”
Alyssa Towns, an intern for 
the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability, said using sustainable transportation is more convenient than driving a car. 
“We all know parking on cam-
pus is extremely difﬁ  cult,” Towns said. “It’s important that UF stu-dents, staff and faculty know 
their other options and see how 
easy it is to use these other op-tions.”
Vitt said the event also aims to 
encourage UF administration to invest in sustainable transporta-tion. The Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability 
helped make a goal at their 2015 
Earth Day event to transition 10 percent of vehicles owned by UF  to electric vehicles within the next ﬁ  ve to 10 years, she said. 
“We’ve been working toward 
trying to push that out to the dif-ferent departments and colleges on campus to let them know that 
if they are thinking about pur-
chasing a new vehicle for their ofﬁ  ce, to consider an electric ve-hicle, because this is part of our goal for the university,” she said. 
Sustainable Transportation Fair to feature electric vehicles4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017ADMISSION TO THE EVENT 
COST ONE CANNED FOOD ITEM.
By Emily Nolan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Six-year-old Aidyn Montford, dressed 
as a skeleton, trick-or-treated with llamas, 
monkeys and hogs on Halloween.
Aidyn was one of 6,000 attendees who 
walked along a quarter-mile path at Santa 
Fe College’s 23rd annual Boo at the Zoo, 
collecting candy and taking pictures at 
themed photo booth areas from 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. 
The teaching zoo, which usually costs 
$5 to $6 for admittance, was open to any-
one who donated a canned food item, 
which was collected by Catholic Charities at the entrance. The canned goods were given to Catholic Charities and Gainesville 
Harvest, a food pantry at Santa Fe, orga-
nizer Haley Wilson said. Last year, 5,000 
cans were given to charity.
Students of the college’s zoo animal 
technology program dressed in costumes and passed out about 60,000 pieces of can-dy. The volunteers began preparing decora-tions four months before the event, Wilson said. 
“(The students had) a very small budget 
to work with,” she said. “So they bring a lot of great stuff out of nothing.”
Sections of the path had themes in-
cluding “Star Wars,” “Hercules,” “Finding Nemo” and “Peter Pan.”
Aidyn and his two younger sisters 
played in the “Minecraft”-themed section 
and giggled at characters dressed in painted 
cardboard boxes.
His father, Adrian Montford, followed 
behind his children and said this was the 
first time the family attended the event.
“I was surprised. It’s pretty elaborate,” 
he said. “And the kids are having a lot of fun.”
Catholic Charities Director John Barli 
said the charity expects to collect even more 
this year because of higher attendance.
“This is kind of a cool idea,” Barli said. 
“We can involve the charities and the com-
munity in what we do.”Zoo event had candy, boos
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police responded to calls of an argument between about five people, one of whom allegedly held a shotgun, inside a Campus View Place apartment, located at 1240 SW Ninth Road, at about 5:30 p.m. Monday. No arrests were made and the investigation is ongoing into what police are calling an armed disturbance, Sgt. T ony Ferro said.  
and the rest of his lightweight 
four team placed third in club na-
tionals, the first time a UF men’s 
lightweight boat placed in the top 
three, he said. 
Over the summer, Eldeib prac-
ticed in Gainesville to prepare for 
the national competition.
Joseph Lennon, a 21-year-old 
UF economics senior and president of the UF men’s club rowing team, 
witnessed Eldeib’s constant train-
ing.
“[Eldeib] did a lot of hard work 
over the summer,” Lennon said.  
Lennon said he’s glad Eldeib 
joined the UF team, and that the 
19-year-old is “the best teammate 
you could ask for.” 
“He was never cocky and never 
had an aura of arrogance about him,” he said.    
Although the practices were sometimes difficult for Eldeib, the support of his team members on the Florida club rowing team, as 
well as his love for the sport, kept 
him going, he said. 
When Eldeib gets into the water 
almost every day, the calming, re-
petitive sensation and the water’s 
scenery takes away all of his out-side stressors. 
“You’re in the moment,” he 
said. “You’re focusing on each 
stroke and making everything as 
efficient as you can.” 
While Eldeib plans to continue 
rowing with UF, he hopes to move 
forward to a bigger competition. 
Although he’s already competed in one World Championship, he’s 
looking forward to another, wide-
spread event.  
“My biggest goal is to compete 
in the 2020 Olympics,” he said. 
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.orgROWER,  from pg. 1He hopes to compete with them in the 2020 Olympics
Courtesy to the Alligator
Eldeib (front) and his partner row in the lightweight double race during the 2017 Rowing 
Championship in Sarasota, Florida. 
noon.
Foxx said Sheriff Sadie Dar-
nell, a cousin of Tom Petty, also called her expressing that she had no knowledge of Perry’s proposal. 
“The emotions of the com-
munity had gotten to the point where he had no other option than to change it,” Foxx said. 
Perry said filing a bill is a 
very early stage in the legislative process. It has to be debated and passed in the Florida Senate and House and can be amended along the way before going into effect in July 2018.
A section of West University Avenue is also being consid-ered to memorialize Petty, if not Southwest 34th Street, he said.
Mackenzie Fowell, a UF nurs-
ing senior, said she thinks Petty should be memorialized on UF’s campus, rather than renaming a roadway. Fowell, 21, said some-thing to honor the late singer nearby the UF Music Building would make the most sense. 
“I understand why there 
should be something in Gainesville,” she said. “But not necessarily replacing someone else.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
PETTY,  from pg. 1Petty grew up locally 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After student outcry, Provost Jo-
seph Glover secured permanent fund-
ing for eight new mental health coun-
selors.
At Tuesday’s Student Senate meet-
ing, Student Body President Smith 
Meyers announced the secured fund-
ing for eight of the 12 planned new 
hires. 
The Counseling & Wellness Center 
has been seeking permanent funding for 12 new counselors. The center 
asked for a student fee raise of 71.4 
cents per credit hour, which was de-nied by the local fee committee Oct. 9. 
Though the counselors would still be added with nonpermanent fund-ing, students spoke out at the Oct. 17 
Senate meeting about the decision. 
Meyers said those students helped move the administration to get more permanent funding.
“When they see that many stu-
dents come together and united be-hind one goal, to get more mental health counselors on campus, that really grabbed their attention,” Mey-
ers said. 
He said he met with Ernesto Es-
coto, the CWC’s director, and Vice 
President for Student Affairs David Parrott, who spoke with Glover about 
the funding’s importance. 
Meyers praised Impact Party for 
their efforts in the funding, saying it was not a bipartisan effort. He then 
criticized Sen. Zachariah Chou (In-
spire, Murphree) for his letter to the 
editor about the CWC funding pub-lished in the Alligator. He said it was poorly researched and mislead stu-dents to think resources were cut. 
Chou stood up to ask questions, 
and after some debate, Meyers told Chou he could speak to him in office hours. Chou told Meyers: “Don’t run 
away.”
Chou said Meyers didn’t under-
stand his letter and what he was con-
veying. 
“I still stand by the article as of this 
moment,” he said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org8 CWC counselors funded permanentlyWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day of the week. Come in 
and check out one of the best wine lists in 
town. Ask questions and learn while you 
wait for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using fresh, 
simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 
5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St.  
(352) 375-7372
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an 
impressive selection of organic vegan ice 
cream, baked goods, sandwiches, fair 
trade coffee, tea, organic beer 
and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm 
Sat&Sun 10am-11pm
FUSION
Momoyaki
Specializes in crafting mouth-watering 
modern Korean dishes, sushi and cocktails 
in a unique and inviting atmosphere, distinct 
taste. Visit web momoyaki.com  for detailsBREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents 
went to UF they most likely ate here. 
We serve gator, frog legs, duck, quail 
+ venison + a wide variety of seafood 
+ steaks. Top it off with our famous sour 
orange pie. Now that is a meal any FL 
Gator can enjoy. So come on out to 
the creek + take a step back in time. Only here can you see the legendary 
bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, 
playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here •  352-376-4482
TO
DINING 
ITALIAN
 BREAKFAST
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Trump does not deserve 
a double standard when 
it comes to assault
Earlier this week, “Star Trek” and “Rent” actor Anthony 
Rapp revealed to the public the “House of Cards” star Kev-in Spacey sexually assaulted him more than 30 years ago when he attended a party thrown at Spacey’s home.
According to CNN, Rapp said the incident took place 
in 1986 when he was 14 years old and Spacey was 26. Spacey’s implied pedophilia has America outraged at the idea their favorite TV president could do such a horrible thing. The popular Netflix series has even suspended filming of its final season.
Although we certainly agree the allegations against Spacey are 
abhorrent, we’re noticing an infuriating double standard being set for this fictitious world leader and our actual Commander in Chief.
In case we have all forgotten, which it seems like we have, 
President Donald Trump has more than a few sexual assault 
charges connected to his name, as well. According to Vox, a to-
tal of 15 women had come forward as of Nov. 5, 2016, claiming Trump has sexually assaulted them. This was just three days be-fore he was elected into office. The offenses range from his notori-ous “grab them by the pussy” video, to groping beauty pageant contestants, to, worst of all, raping a 13-year-old child. 
These allegations aren’t new. In fact, many of the incidents 
themselves occurred far more recently than Spacey’s infraction and all were public knowledge before Trump was elected as presi-
dent of the U.S. So why does America care so much more about 
the behavior of an actor than they do about the man who is lead-ing our country? Really, we’d just like to know.
 We believe it is truly revolting our country chose to overlook 
Trump’s allegations when it came down to it. 
We expect nothing less than to receive numerous angry com-
ments on this editorial, claiming the allegations against Trump are just that: allegations. You’re right, they are just allegations. He isn’t a registered sex offender and he was never officially charged 
with sexual assault. However, the same goes for Spacey. And 
Spacey has a much cleaner record. 
We understand everyone is innocent until proven guilty, and 
in cases of sexual assault and misconduct, it can be challenging to provide evidence. But, in that same way, we believe all allegations should be given respect and should be given the same merit. 
People are furious over the allegations against Weinstein. He 
has been ousted in Hollywood and removed from the company he co-founded. People are appalled about the allegations against 
Spacey, and his hit Netflix show has suspended filming. But when 
it comes to Trump and the 15 allegations against him, people could not seem to care less.
We aren’t saying Weinstein and Spacey shouldn’t be punished. 
We aren’t saying what they did is right or what they did is any more acceptable than what Trump has allegedly done. What we are saying, however, is our president should be held to the same standard as these celebrities. 
In our opinion, it is appalling this is even a topic of discussion. 
Trump’s sexual assault charges are something that should have been investigated thoroughly during his campaign. Nonetheless, this is our reality.
While his supporters were busy reeling about Hillary Clinton’s 
emails, they neglected the fact that they were electing a sexual offender into office. Women spoke up, and we ignored them. In-stead of charging their offender, we made him president.
By all means, dear reader, we want you to express your upset 
with people like Weinstein and Spacey — they deserve it. But 
when you do so, just remember the man you put in office and the 
hypocrisy behind his election.Journalism is struggling, it’s time to help
I see you clearing your cookies on your com-
puter to get 10 more free articles for the Sun Sentinel or The Washington Post without having to pay their monthly subscription, and for awhile I was like you. I get it, you 
don’t have the money to pay $5 a month for news, so you cheat the system. It makes sense, but you’re hurting the very institution that you count on for reliable news, and it’s time we started supporting newspapers. They need us.
On Monday, a newspaper you’ve probably 
never heard of called The Pratt Tribune made a copy edit-ing mistake that would have easily been preventable if they had the funding to hire more editors. The headline read “Students get first hand job experience.” If you read that quickly you might have missed the error, but the words “first” and “hand” should be one word so that it reads “Students get firsthand job experience.” If you’ve made it this far you’re probably wondering why you should care about a little mistake some newspaper you’ve never heard of made. The reason you should care — the reason all of us should care — is because this is what hap-pens when newsrooms are not only overworked, but also understaffed due to lack of funding.
While this might not seem like a big deal to those of 
you who aren’t in journalism, mistakes like this make de-cent newspapers look ridiculous. It ruins their credibility, it makes the writers look ignorant and, in a way, it dimin-ishes a reader’s likelihood to believe anything else in this article. This is why, dear readers, I’m going to ask you to support your local newspaper. Whether it’s buying a paper every now and then when you’re home on break or one day becoming an online subscriber to a publication, just do something. Do something to make sure that the source you go to for news isn’t being neglected. 
Next to advertisements, the money that you spend for 
subscriptions is one of the things that keep the printed newspapers and the ones online up and run-ning. Your small subscription fee goes into a huge pool and gets divided not only to help keep a roof over the newsroom, but also to staff reporters, editors and everyone else who works day in and day out, even on weekends and holidays, to provide you with the news. It is important, it is not fake and it matters.
I recognize that I might be a little bit biased 
because I am a journalist myself. But I’ve ex-perienced firsthand just how hard journalists 
work. Whether it’s for an impromptu protest, a 24-hour hurricane watch or anything in between, they’re out there working hard for long hours to make sure that you remain informed. The least you can do, in my opinion, is throw them a few bucks once a month. 
In addition to the long hours and the sometimes labor-
intensive work, journalists also don’t get paid much. In fact, for most journalists in the U.S., salaries fall some-where between $20,000 to $50,000 a year depending on their location and experience. This isn’t much to live off of.
So why do we do it, you ask? For most of us, we love 
it. We love talking to people and learning new things, but most importantly, we love informing you about what’s go-ing on in your community, because you deserve to know when your electric company is going to raise your rates or what happened at the latest city council meeting. You deserve to know, and we want you to be informed, so pay the fee and be the better person.
As famous journalist Walter Cronkite once said: “Jour-
nalism is what we need to make democracy work.” We are as much a part of your hometown as your local schools, police stations and libraries, so give us the same support you give them. 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Over the past several months, Ameri-
cans across the country have taken it upon themselves to destroy, de-face and rewrite American history with the removal of historical statues 
and monuments. Virtually unchallenged, this small segment of the public has attempted to bully fair-minded citizens into accepting a new American reality: one without our Founding Fathers. 
As a proud American, and as someone who 
has a deep love for this country and its history, I am deeply saddened by this. 
The early attempts to remove statues and 
monuments were aimed at those that honored Confederates. Or at least that’s what the pro-testers told us. However, I knew these claims were false. I remember telling those close to me at the time, family and friends, that the tar-geting of Confederate symbols was a ruse. I be-lieved that protesters would eventually come for Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, etc. And they did. That fear was recently proven true.
This past Saturday, Christ Church in Al-
exandria, Virginia, announced it would be removing two 147-year-old plaques honoring the church’s most famous parishio-ners: George Washington and Rob-ert E. Lee. In statements released by the church rector and warden, the parish hierarchy said the plaques 
will be relocated outside the church 
because they make visitors feel un-safe and unwelcome. I had a feeling that by relocated, the parish meant placed out of plain sight, so on Sun-day morning, I decided to pay a visit to the church to get my last glance at the plaques. 
The plaques hang at the front of the church, 
one on each side of the altar. The church is small and humble but rich in history. Wash-ington and Lee’s pews are marked with small metal plates. It is almost difﬁ  cult to believe that one can sit where these two men once sat. 
Once inside, I spoke to an older gentleman 
who was both a parishioner and volunteer tour guide of the church. I could tell this man was proud to be a member of this church. In fact, 
he has been a parishioner for more than 40 
years. He was also proud of its history, how-ever conﬂ  icted it may be. He informed me that the decision to remove the plaques was made by the 10 members on the church’s board. I was surprised because he also acknowledged that although a majority of the parish is 
liberal, he believed that most felt 
that the plaques should remain.“It’s history.” he told me. “No man in history is perfect. We should recog-nize (Washington and Lee’s) ﬂ  aws, but also remember their achieve-
ments that rose above their mistakes.” 
The tour guide could not have been more 
correct. Both Washington and Lee were ﬂ  awed 
men in their own ways. Both men owned 
slaves, and Lee led the Confederate Army during the Civil War. But how much do most Americans, much less these protesters, know about these men? I submit that most Ameri-cans know very little. 
Washington was perhaps our nation’s 
greatest president, and like many of the other founders, did not believe slavery had a place 
in the future of American society. However, 
the founders knew the Constitution would not be ratiﬁ  ed without the institution of slavery, so they inserted a mechanism for slavery to be eradicated in the future. Washington also emancipated his slaves after his death. 
Lee is viewed less favorably. But does he 
get judged fairly by history? Many historians 
believe his relationship with slavery is a con-
ﬂ  icted one. What you will almost never read is how instrumental Lee was in the reuniﬁ  ca-tion of the U.S. Professor James Robertson at Virginia Tech once claimed that no American did a better job of bringing the country back together than Robert E. Lee. 
If we are to judge men in history by the 
worst of their decisions, then can we truly hon-
or anyone? For example, if the same standards 
apply, then should we stop honoring Martin Luther King Jr. or John F. Kennedy for their alleged personal and extramarital affairs? 
This country and its history are under at-
tack. The tour guide in Christ Church inspired me to take a stand and defend my country’s history. My hope is that you will do the same. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF ﬁ  nance senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Counseling and mental health services 
are a top priority at UF and need to 
be part of continued conversations 
nationally within higher education and beyond.
Today’s college students nationwide are 
seeking mental health services at higher rates than any previous generation. The 2015 an-
nual report by the Center for Collegiate Men-
tal Health showed between 2010 and 2015, on average, the growth in the number of stu-
dents seeking services at counseling centers 
was more than ﬁ  ve times (+29.6 percent)  the rate of institutional enrollment (+5.6 per-
cent) across 93 colleges and universities in the 
U.S. In addition, counseling center appoint-ments grew 38.4 percent or at seven times the rate of institutional enrollment dur-ing the same period. 
UF, like most other colleges and 
universities nationwide, faces an unprecedented demand for mental 
health services. The Counseling & 
Wellness Center, the primary pro-vider for student mental health ser-
vices on our campus, served 4,401 
students in 2015 compared to 5,088 students in 2017. That is a 15 per-
cent increase in the number of stu-
dents served in three years. Anxiety, stress and depression consistently remain the most 
common concerns for which UF students seek 
help at the CWC.  
Last Spring, UF, along with the other uni-versities in the state university sys-tem, lobbied the state of Florida for 
support through a legislative bud-
get request. Unfortunately, it did not go through. 
Immediately after that, UF ad-
ministrators, Student Body Presi-dent Smith Meyers and SG Exter-
nal Affairs Director Haley Smith 
worked together to ﬁ  nd a tempo-rary solution to help address the 
growing need for more counselors 
on our campus. The solution was to add four 
more counselors a year over the course of 
three years. 
Since that time, Provost Joe Glover and 
Vice President for Student Affairs Dave Par-rott have continued to work diligently on a 
solution to this issue.
I’m pleased to announce they have made 
the funding for the ﬁ  rst eight positions perma-nent. These eight new counselors will provide 
necessary support to the CWC in our efforts 
to serve and meet the needs of UF students. 
The issues surrounding the mental health 
needs of our students, including funding, are indeed complex. And, as a university commu-nity, we must continue to engage in dialogue 
as we attempt to meet this challenge and 
identify ways to increase support for those in need. 
Dr. Ernesto Escoto is the director of the 
UF Counseling and Wellness Center.It’s time to take a stand against the statue vandals 
Mental health needs to be a top priority for collegesColumn
Guest ColumnEduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.org
Dr. Ernesto
Escoto
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
IT IS FUNDED BY A $100,000 
GRANT FROM THE 
EUROPEAN UNION.
By Lindsey Vasti
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will host a discussion about Brexit and 
nationalist politics after receiving a $100,000 
grant from the European Union.The UF College of Journalism and Com-
munications and the Center for European Studies are sponsoring the panel event Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in Gannett Auditori-
um in Weimer Hall. The Center for European 
Studies received the Getting to Know the 
European Union grant  in late 2015 and will use it for programs through Spring 2018, said Lisa Booth, the center’s assistant director.
“The grant is basically aimed at making 
the general American population more aware of what the European Union does, promotes and sponsors,” Booth said.
Thursday’s event will focus on the eco-
nomic impacts of Brexit, which is when 
United Kingdom voted to leave the European 
Union, said Amie Kreppel, the director of the 
Center for European Studies and moderator of the event.
“The reason Brexit matters to students 
is because it is an important international 
event that will shape the future of trans-At-lantic relations and their own experiences,” 
Kreppel said.
Three panel presenters will speak about 
whether Brexit and the spread of economic 
populist movements have an impact on peo-
ple across the globe, said Sydney Denninger, 
a member of the Getting to Know Europe program communications team.
“It is our duty as college educated stu-
dents to attend,” Denninger said. “By attend-
ing we can help direct a future we want.”Brexit talk to discuss national, European politics
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Woman hits bouncer with beer
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was arrested Mon-
day after hitting an :08 nightclub bouncer 
with a 12-pack of Pabst Blue Ribbon beer, Gainesville Police said.
Casey Lynn Willey, 
27, hit the bouncer with the box of beer after he tried to remove her from the bar, located at 201 W. University Ave., according to the report. The bar had closed and she refused to leave, police said.
An ofﬁ  cer said she saw 
Willey hit the bouncer at about 3:10 a.m.
Willey was handcuffed while police in-
vestigated the incident, but she still tried to leave the scene, according to the report.
After she was released from the hand-
cuffs, Willey refused to give her name or date of birth to police, according to the re-port. Police said Willey was behaving vio-lently and yelling profanities. 
Willey later gave her name and date of 
birth to an ofﬁ  cer. Afterward, she stepped toward an ofﬁ  cer in an aggressive way after being told not to, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
The bouncer didn’t want to press charges 
against Willey, Tobias said.
Willey was arrested on a charge of dis-
orderly conduct and taken to the Alachua County Jail, where she was released Mon-
day morning on her own recognizance.  
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
ACSO: Man arrested for attempted 
murder of his roommate
THE ROOMMATE WAS CELEBRATING 
HIS 21ST BIRTHDAY.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested for at-
tempted murder after he tried to shoot his 
roommate Monday, Alachua County Sher-iff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Charles White Jr., 37, said a friend the 
roommate had invited over to celebrate the roommate’s 21st birthday 
was not welcome in their trailer at Palms of Ar-cher, located at 7117 SW Archer Road, at about 9 p.m., ACSO Spokesper-son Sgt. Chris Sims said.
The roommates ar-
gued, and White loaded a handgun he took from his waistband, Sims said. 
White choked his roommate to near un-
consciousness and hit him in the face with the handgun, Sims said.
When White pressed the gun to the room-
mate’s forehead, the roommate grabbed the gun’s barrel and wrestled with White over it before White ﬁ  red a shot next to the room-mate’s head, Sims said.
The roommate’s injuries were treated at 
a local emergency room, Sims said.
ACSO said deputies found 3,000 rounds 
of ammunition but not the gun the room-mate described in his apartment.
Sims said motive is unclear, but deputies 
do not think it was an episode of mental ill-ness. 
White, who was convicted for felonies 
in 2002 and 2008, was arrested on charges of attempted murder, possession of a ﬁ  re-arm by a convicted felon and possession of ammunition by a convicted felon. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $275,000 bond. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
GPD: Two men arrested for selling 
drugs behind Mother’s pub
POLICE SAID THEY FOUND SYNTHETIC 
MARIJUANA AND XANAX IN THEIR CAR.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Florida men were arrested by po-
lice who had heard reports the men were 
selling drugs behind Mother’s Pub and Grill, Gainesville Police said.
Police questioned Jordan Joseph Cain, 
21, and Misike Tyi Marko, 22, after smell-ing marijuana in the truck located at 1017 
W. University Ave., according to an arrest 
report. An ofﬁ  cer noticed a joint in Marko’s lap that later tested positive for synthetic marijuana.
When police told Marko to step out of 
the truck, he hesitated and reached for his waistband, according to the report. Police 
pulled Marko out of the truck and found an unli-
censed Glock .22 in his pants. Police said the ﬁ  re-arm was reported as sto-len to GPD in September.
Police also found clear 
bags of 20 grams of a white powdery substance on Marko, according to 
the report. GPD is inves-
tigating the substance’s 
identity.
Ofﬁ  cers also found 22 
Xanax bars and seven 
grams of synthetic mari-juana in the truck, ac-cording to the report.
Cain and Marko told 
police they had smoked 
before ofﬁ  cers arrived but weren’t selling drugs, according to the report.
Police arrested Cain and Marko on a 
charge of drug possession with intent to sell. Marko was also arrested on a charge of car-rying a concealed weapon. Both were taken to the Alachua County Jail, where they re-main, as of press time. Cain’s bond is set at $8,000, and Marko’s bond is $30,000.Willey
White
Marko
Cain
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Drink with the Extinct:
Florida museum to host annual event (pg. 10)20 Watt T ombstone: 
Death blues band to perform (pg. 10)WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
On Monday night the Gainesville 
Roller Rebels Swamp City Sirens laced 
up their skates to practice.
In a few days, they’ll be racing around 
the track, blocking and vying for scoring 
position against their ﬁ  erce rivals, the All 
City Roller Hunnies. Roller derby may 
not get the ESPN primetime slot, but the 
GRR Swamp City Sirens are dedicated. 
Ranging from late teens to late 40s, the 
Sirens drove all the way to Ocala from 
school, work and family to practice for 
Saturday’s bout. It is the GRR’s 10th an-niversary and the last bout of the season.
The bout will begin at 6:30 p.m. at 
the Gainesville MLK Multipurpose Cen-
ter at 1028 NE 14th St. Tickets for the 
game are available for $10 at the door 
or $8 in advance from Sweet Dreams Ice 
Cream, Wild Iris Books, Volta Coffee, Tea & Chocolate and brownpapertickets.com.
“Coconut Slaughter,” known outside 
the rink as Courtney Figueira, has been with GRR for a year and a half. Figueira 
had always wanted to try roller derby, 
but access and fear kept her from the 
sport until she took a job in Gainesville 
and “decided to do something scary.”
“It’s the hardest thing I’ve ever done 
that I didn’t quit,” Figueira said.
Difﬁ  cult? Yes, but not mean, Figueira 
explained. She said that’s the biggest mis-conception about the sport. There is no punching or throwing elbows — that’s all 
illegal. Although roller derby is a full-con-
tact sport, it’s full of strategy and ﬁ  nesse, like solving an equation, Figueira said.
Marilee Grifﬁ  n goes by “Red Daring” 
when she’s with her Siren sisters. When Grifﬁ  n attended her ﬁ  rst bout a year and a half ago, she was drawn to the energy 
and fun of the sport. She joined the team 
soon after.
“It’s the environment, the camara-
derie,” Grifﬁ  n said. “A group of self-
possessed women focused on something 
other than looks … There’s no insecurity 
here.”
At practice, Katie Zarada keeps the 
team on track with drills and encourage-ment. Skating under the moniker “Trou-
ble Helix,” Zarada is one of three cap-
tains for the Sirens. Zarada, who played 
water polo and rugby during her time at the University of Georgia, rediscovered 
her love of teamwork when she became 
a Siren.
Many of these women barely knew 
how to skate when they joined the GRR 
family. Zarada thinks that’s what is spe-
cial about the team: the people. She said 
each player begins confused about the 
sport and the rules, but the team takes 
them under its wing.
“I think (people) are wrong when 
they say they can’t do it,” Zarada said. “It’s a community that fosters learning.”Swamp City Sirens to play in ﬁ  nal match of the season
Photo by Jamup Duo 
Photography
The Gainesville Roller Rebels (GRR) Swamp City Sirens were founded in 2007.
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
The 68th annual student-run 
Florida Writers Festival will kick 
off this weekend. This year, festi-
valgoers can engage with notable 
writers Lydia Davis, Lawrence Jo-seph, Rachel Cusk and Paul Mul-doon.
The free festival will include 
readings as well as informative discussions about the craft of writing by all authors, according to the press release.
Andrew Cushen, a 21-year-old 
UF Spanish senior, went to the festival last year and is attending again after having a great experi-ence.
“You get to listen to writers 
read their work,” Cushen said. “There are some great craft talks about what they ﬁ  nd instructive 
and useful in their writing, and I 
think for anyone who’s interested in making a successful time of writing poetry or prose, it’s a re-
ally positive experience.”While Cushen praises all of the 
authors for their work, he said he’s most excited to see Cusk and 
Muldoon this year.
“I’m looking most forward to 
seeing Rachel Cusk because she is legitimately making herself 
known in the literary world right 
now, but in line-up, I’m probably most excited that Paul Muldoon is coming because I love his poetry, 
and he is, from what I can tell, 
a talented editor,” Cushen said. “He just ﬁ  nished being editor of poetry at the New Yorker, and he hosted the New Yorker Poetry 
podcast, and I think his past posi-
tion as an editor brings immense prestige to the Writers Festival this year.”
Cushen said Gainesville is the 
perfect place for emerging writers because the wackiness of Florida is the perfect setting for stories, and the tight-knit community 
of undergraduate and graduate 
student writers creates endless opportunities for budding au-thors.  
“There’s all sorts of events 
around town like the Writers Festival, but also poetry and ﬁ  c-tion readings, readings at Third House Books, the Fine Print, Tea, the undergraduate literary 
magazine, and I know there are a 
couple other zines around town,” Cushen said. “It’s important that Gainesville hosts the Writers Fes-
tival because it keeps our pro-
gram and the general population active participants in the impor-tant literary movements and turns of our time.”
The festival will start Friday at 
8 p.m. with readings from Lydia Davis and Lawrence Joseph, ac-cording to the press release. Ra-
chel Cusk, Lydia Davis, Lawrence 
Joseph and Paul Muldoon will discuss their craft Saturday at 1 p.m. The festival ends Saturday at 8 p.m. with readings from Ra-
chel Cusk and Paul Muldoon. All 
events will be held on campus at the Ustler Hall Atrium. 
Annual Florida Writer’s Festival returns to Gainesville
Courtesy to The Alligator
Rachel Cusk is one of four authors that will be in attendance.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
Florida Museum photo by Kristen Grace
The annual Drink with the Extinct event is sold out.
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
Gainesville will host 20 Watt 
Tombstone on its 24-date Fall 2017 
tour.
The Atlantic on North Main 
Street will host the Wisconsin duo Friday at 9 p.m. along with open-ers Made Ready, Rojo Diablo and Rockhill.
The Nov. 3 stop will be preceded 
by a stop at The Clermont in Atlan-ta, Georgia, on Nov. 2 and followed in Melbourne, Florida, at Just One More on Nov. 4.
The band 20 Watt Tombstone 
doesn’t take itself too seriously. On its website, the bio reads: “If the White Stripes, The Black Keys and Left Lane Cruiser had an illegitimate 
love child with Lemmy while Hunt-
er S. Thompson documented the 
whole torrid thing, you might get 20 Watt Tombstone.”
In 2011, drummer Mitch 
Du’Quan Ostrowski and guitar-
ist Tom Jordan came together to 
form an alternative blues rock band mixed with metal, country and punk blends. Today, they embark 
on their sixth tour, hitting 23 cities 
in just one month.
One of 20 Watt Tombstone’s 
opening acts, Rojo Diablo, shares a 
place of origin with the band. Twen-ty years ago in northern Wisconsin, original members of both bands be-came good friends.
Today, guitarist and vocalist Kris 
Robinson, bassist Chuck Crews and drummer Olly Edwards have joined remaining guitarist and vocalist Rich Ouimette, the remaining origi-
nal member of the band.
A decade after Rojo Diablo 
moved to Gainesville from Wiscon-
sin, the band is reuniting with 20 Watt Tombstone after having spent 
two years apart since performing 
the Gainesville stop of 20 Watt 
Tombstone’s last tour.
“We built a big family (in Wis-
consin) with the guys from 20 Watt Tombstone before they were a band, but we just kind of got tired of the weather and wanted something different, so we moved down here almost a decade ago,” 
Ouimette said. “Over the years, the 
original members had to go back to their families, but I grew up down here, so all the guys who I grew up with, 30 years later, they joined the band, and now here we are.”
Rojo Diablo playing this show 
comes as a rarity these days, as the band was recently signed to the la-bel MoonWax and is now working on its second album. The owner of MoonWax, John Deckle, plays bass for Society Down.
“We released our ﬁ  rst album 12 years ago, toured it and had a blast. After that, we had some lineup changes and spent a year recording 
this huge opus, but our other lead 
singer moved up to Wisconsin, so 
we didn’t feel right releasing it.”
Finally, however, Deckle’s stu-
dio in Jacksonville has helped Rojo 
Diablo produce a sound that Oui-
mette says sounds like them, unlike 
their ﬁ  rst LP, which was recorded in a friend’s basement.
“The ﬁ  rst album did well, but 
there was one song, ‘American Go-morra,’ that we wanted done right,” Ouimette said. “That song, 12 years later, is going to be on our second album, which is set to be released in early spring.”
Rojo Diablo will be performing 
songs from its upcoming album at Friday’s show.
Also opening for 20 Watt Tomb-
stone is Made Ready, a hard rock band formed in 2012 by lead vocal-ist and guitarist Justin Grey, lead guitarist and backup vocalist Chase Crawford, bassist Jacob Sparks and drummer BJ Rambo.
The band, based out of south 
Georgia, calls Gainesville its home-town.
“We’ve played here a ton and 
have a bunch of friends down here 
that have all accepted us as one 
of their own. 20 Watt are some personal friends of ours that we hooked up with through a show,” 
Crawford said. “We’re not actually 
on this whole tour this time around, 
just a couple of support dates for now. But Mitch and Tom are great guys and we love playing with them 
any chance we get.”
Made Ready is currently work-
ing on raising funds to record a full 
length LP. Most of the songs are already written, and some will be 
featured in Friday’s set.
The band will return to the At-
lantic in December for a Thin Lizzy 
tribute show, which Crawford says has been his dream since he was 14 years old. 
Friday’s show will run from 9 
p.m. to midnight with tickets avail-able at the door of the Atlantic.  
20 Watt Tombstone to perform Friday at the Atlantic  
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Made Ready and Rojo Diablo will join 20 Watt T ombstone this Friday.
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Contributor 
You don’t have to be Ben Stiller to 
spend a night at the museum.
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will host its third annual sold-
out Drink with the Extinct event Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for those 21 and older who have purchased a ticket.
“It’s nice that we get to be in a mu-
seum setting with the artworks and ar-tifacts that people have gathered and worked so hard on making to be such a beautiful part of what we have here in Gainesville,” said Adriana Rugeles, 
a 21-year-old UF political science ju-
nior.
The event has 10 local sponsors, 
with Cypress and Grove, Blackadder 
and David’s BBQ new to this year’s 
event. The sponsors will provide free food, drinks and live music to all at-tendees.
“The event is very relaxed, but 
fun,” said Kaitlin Gardiner, the market-ing and public relations coordinator for the museum.
Julie Song, a UF doctoral student, 
said she plans to attend with three col-leagues in her program.
“This event is something different 
— a unique environment,” Song said. “We were going to have our regular meeting, so why don’t (we) go outside 
of school and do something different?”
The event creates a social scene 
within an academic setting, encourag-
ing the community to gather and appre-ciate artifacts while raising money for 
the program it beneﬁ  ts. In past years, 
the event has sponsored the Butterﬂ  y Gardens at Local Schools program and the Junior Volunteer program.
Kara Schwartz, the development 
coordinator for the museum, said the museum chooses to sponsor programs in which even a small dollar amount can make a big impact.  
This year the event will beneﬁ  t 
the museum’s own Pop-Up Museum program, which aims to foster inter-est for the natural sciences within the 
Gainesville community, according to 
the event’s website.
“Engagement, inspiration and ac-
cessibility: Pop-ups create engaging experiences and facilitate two-way 
conversations around current science 
topics,” said the living exhibit special-ist outreach coordinator, Jonnie Dietz. “By traveling to non-traditional loca-
tions and reaching diverse audiences, 
we hope to inspire our community to care about life on earth.”Museum of Natural History to host Drink with the Extinct BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
1. HISTORY: Where was the Man-
hattan Project, the atomic bomb, 
developed?
2. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
19th-century poem “The Raven”?
3. TELEVISION: How many cast-
aways were on the sitcom “Gilligan’s Island”?
4. HISTORY: What Byzantine city 
was later renamed Istanbul after being captured by the Ottoman Empire?
5. ACRONYMS: What do letters in 
SCUBA stand for?
6. STYLE: What kind of hairdo did 
The Beatles inspire in the 1960s?
7. GEOGRAPHY: The Mexican bor -
der city of Tijuana is close to which major U.S city?
8. MOVIES: What kind of dog was 
Toto in “The Wizard of Oz”?
9. ENTERTAINMENT: What is the 
name of Donald Duck’s significant other?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
word for Vietnamese noodle soup?
Answers
1. Los Alamos National Laboratory 
(New Mexico)
2. Edgar Allan Poe3. Seven4. Constantinople
5. Self-Contained Underwater 
Breathing Apparatus
6. The mop-top
7. San Diego8. Cairn Terrier9. Daisy Duck10. Pho
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 30, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ACROSS
1 Olympic
swimmer Buster
who played BuckRogers
7 Naughty
10 Queequeg’s
captain
14 “Yowzah!”15 365 días
16 Place for a long
winter’s nap
17 Restaurant
review pricing
symbol
19 __ bar20 Physicians’ gp.
21 Cheese couleur
22 Like some bread23 Out of __: not
together
25 Grad’s memento
28 Wagering
parlors: Abbr.
31 Printer problem
32 Key with no
sharps or flats
35 Slatted window40 British
Columbia’scapital is on it
42 Where a tennis
server’s doubles
partner is usually
positioned
43 Most cordial44 Like this ans.45 Diamond bag46 Equal chance51 Slide __
55 Slangy negative
56 School whose a
cappella group is
the Whiffenpoofs
59 Albany is its cap.60 Nabisco cracker61 “Baby Got Back”
rapper, and a hintto this puzzle’scircles
64 Extra65 Boxing legend66 Catty?67 Cookie monster?68 Center of
Austria?
69 Fly to flee
DOWN
1 Musical endings2 Unlike most
airline seating
3 Poe’s middle
name
4 Statement amt.5 Spoil the surprise
6 English
nobleman
7 Olympic skater
Oksana
8 Country in SW
Afr.
9 Put on
10 Place to say “I
do”
11 Port-au-Prince’s
country
12 Singer whose
fans are called
Claymates
13 __ to light:
reveal
18 “Just a few __”
22 Gradual
absorption
24 Marine snail26 Open a bit27 City in central
Kansas
29 Not the least bit
challenging
30 Mimosa time
32 Glamorous
Gardner
33 Yoga class need
34 Statement amt.35 Hot tub water
agitator
36 Stomach
problem37 RSVP
convenience
38 Officeholders39 July hrs. in
Georgia
41 “Bates Motel”
actress Farmiga
45 Shine46 Terra __
47 Self-evident
principle
48 Opening words
49 Reduces to rubble50 Four-time NBA
All-Star __ Irving
52 Not illuminated53 Rhone cathedral
city
54 Lauder of
cosmetics
57 Emotional boost58 Former union
members?
61 Posed (for)
62 __-de-France
63 Oktoberfest quaff
By Matt Skoczen
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/01/1711/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Capital of Poland
7 Actress Moore
11 Dick and Jane’s
dog
15 Tropical lizard16 Large-scale17 Vagrant18 “Evita” Tony-
winning actress
20 __-ran
21 Diminutive suffix
22 Fort full of gold
23 Guitarist Clapton24 Spanish king25 Coast Guard rank29 Prefix with sol
30 Flight height: Abbr.
31 Ambient music
pioneer Brian
32 Rural road
surface
34 Carpal or tarsal
lead-in
36 Prilosec target37 Roberto
Clemente, notably
41 “__-daisy!”42 Approximately43 Small fishing
boat
44 D.C. United’s
org.
45 Sweetie pie46 Urge48 Ceramics shaper52 34-Down, in
Toledo, Sp.
55 Naturalist John56 “__ Lang Syne”
57 Truant GI
58 Fatherly
nickname
59 Tinker in the
workshop
62 Move a bit
63 “__, Brute?”64 Not inclined (to)65 Meat safety org.66 Loch with a
mystery
67 Blowtorch user
DOWN
1 Windshield
cleaner
2 Striped quartz3 Like old wagon
trails
4 Appease, as
hunger
5 Smart game-
show vowelpurchase for“F_LM CR_T_C”6 “The Color
Purple” author
Alice
7 Bus terminus8 Modeling glue9 60 secs.
10 Devils’ playing
surface, ironically
11 Puppeteer Lewis12 Patrol vehicle13 Target of
captioning
censorship
14 “That’s __ bad”
19 “Do __ others ... ”
23 Young
salamander
25 Caresses, as a
dog
26 Inaugural
recitation
27 Envelope part28 Used a bike29 Superficially
cultured
32 Embassy
workers
33 “What a
harebrainedidea!”
34 52-Across, in
Toledo, OH
35 Self-esteem36 Retired Yankee
slugger, to fans37 Gas station
machine
38 Crude dude39 Catering
coffeepots
40 Big screen star
45 Ship’s pronoun
46 One-named
soccer great
47 Change, as map
details
49 Sparkly crown
50 Light bulb units51 Many 
Rwandans
52 See 59-Down53 Shake awake
54 Change
57 Brother of Cain
58 Nittany Lions’
sch.
59 It’s mightier than
the 52-Down, so
they say
60 4 x 4, for short
61 Blvd.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/31/1710/31/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 31, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Member of the Navy
1.  Hot ____5.  Percentage 
2.  Time gap6.  Perch
3.  Bad-smelling 7.  Entertained 
4.  ____ waysLSAROI
GIRNSPTIROA
OSRTO
NEMIRTI
URODOSOEMUADS
PRDTEAANSWERS: 1A-Sailor  5A-Ratio  6A-Roost  7A-Amused
1D-Spring  2D-Interim  3D-Odorous  4D-Parted  B-Oregon Trail11-1-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This historic route is 2,170 miles long.BONUS
16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.
21 EntertainmentUF senior Anna Danilina is one 
of seven Florida tennis players competing in the National Fall Championships. Read the preview, pg. 15. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida men’s basketball 
coach Mike White is a realist.
He understands the limits of 
his players, and he’s not afraid 
to talk about them openly.
When asked last October 
about UF ranking second in the SEC preseason media poll, White was brutally — almost shockingly — honest.
“I don’t know that that nec-
essarily means you’re going to be much better,” he said matter of factly. “I’m not sure I would’ve 
picked us second.”
As you can see, sugarcoating things isn’t 
exactly White’s style. He’d rather sew his mouth shut than give his play-
ers credit they don’t deserve.
And while his tempered 
expectations didn’t stop the Gators from reaching the Elite 
Eight last season, that hasn’t 
kept White from once again expressing doubt in his team this fall.
“I think we could be 
better offensively,” he said a few weeks ago. “I’m not sure we can be quite as good 
defensively.”
I usually don’t like to make strong pre-
dictions about a college basketball team Hoops fans: Don’t expect another 
Elite Eight from Gators this seasonYou're Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixonSOCCER: FLORIDA 1, AUBURN 0
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Shortly after she entered the game, Lais 
Araujo jetted toward the Florida sideline. 
The junior midﬁ  elder hugged her team-
mates in celebration after converting her 
ﬁ  rst free kick of the season in the 31st minute of UF's match against Auburn on Tuesday. 
“She stepped up and stuck it,” UF 
coach Becky Burleigh said in a release. “It was a great ﬁ  nish by Lais (Araujo) on the free kick. She had been consistent with those in practice.”
The Gators (14-5, 8-3 SEC) took a step 
toward winning their third consecutive SEC Tournament with help from Araujo’s goal, as they took down the Tigers (7-6-5, 4-3-4 SEC), 1-0, in the quarterﬁ  nals at the Orange Beach Sportsplex in Orange Beach, Alabama. 
With the victory, UF took revenge over 
an Auburn team it lost to earlier in the season. Now, Florida will look to do the same in the semiﬁ  nals Thursday against 
Texas A&M, which defeated the Gators, 
2-1, on Sept. 21. 
“It was great to kind of get (that) mon-
key off our back a little bit,” Burleigh said. “Very rarely in life do you get do-overs. 
We got one against Auburn. Now, we get 
one against Texas A&M.”
However, in the early stages of the 
game, UF looked like it might succumb 
to the heavy Auburn pressure that gave 
it problems when the two teams met on UF advances in SEC Tourne y 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
On Tuesday, as Florida football 
players stretched and jogged on 
the practice ﬁ  eld, an unusual noise came blasting from the loudspeak-ers: a Tom Petty song. 
On Monday, UF held a rare prac-
tice at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
And during a team meeting 
earlier in the week, players were 
informed that their roles were no 
longer guaranteed.
Including at quarterback.
“You never know what coach 
(Randy) Shannon’s thinking or 
what he’s gonna do,” cornerback 
Duke Dawson said. “He keeps us 
on our toes.”
Just as Shannon had promised 
on Monday, during his ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  -
cial day as Florida’s interim coach, 
changes have been made to the UF 
football team, including at its most notable position.
The coach re-opened Florida’s 
quarterback competition and gave 
both redshirt freshman Feleipe 
Franks and graduate transfer Ma-lik Zaire ﬁ  rst-team reps during practice on Tuesday. Shannon and offensive coordinator Doug Nuss-meier will meet and likely name a starter by Thursday, Shannon said.
“When you compete every day, 
it brings the best out of you,” Shan-non said Tuesday.
Franks and Zaire are both listed 
as the starter on Florida’s latest un-ofﬁ  cial depth chart released Tues-day. According to Shannon, no quarterback has created separation from the other. Yet.
“Both of them do some good 
things. Both of them have won games in the past,” Shannon said. “So we just have to go and keep competing in practice. Once that happens, then we can ﬁ  gure out what we’re going to do.”
Franks is coming off arguably 
the worst game of his career, a 42-7 loss to Georgia in which the red-shirt freshman completed seven of his 19 passes for 30 yards with one interception and no touchdowns. He was also sacked ﬁ  ve times.
Zaire replaced Franks in the 
fourth quarter, leading the Gators on their lone touchdown drive and saving Florida from being shutout for the ﬁ  rst time since 1988, the longest such streak in Division I history.
Zaire also went 3-for-6 for 
36 yards — six more yards than Franks on 13 fewer pass attempts — and ran for 30 yards.
“He’s good with his feet. Y’all 
saw that Saturday,” receiver Bran-don Powell said. “He’ll extend plays. That’ll help us out a little bit.”
While Franks’ biggest advan-
tage is his arm strength, Zaire’s specialty is his mobility in the pocket, an aspect of his game that was evident Saturday. The gradu-ate transfer often escaped pressure to extend plays and pick up yards  Shannon's ﬁ  rst shakeup: Putting Zaire back in QB race
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Malik Zaire hasn't started in a game for the Gators. But interim head coach Randy Shannon is opening the starting QB competition after a poor performance by Feleipe Franks vs. Georgia.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
Time change for women's basketball opener
The Gators women's basketball team, led by ﬁ  rst-year coach Cameron 
Newbauer, will open its season at 4 p.m. on Nov. 11. The game against Georgia State was initially scheduled for 1 p.m. but was changed to avoid conﬂ  icting with the football team's noon game against South Carolina. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
VOLLEYBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s volleyball players usu-
ally say they take things one match 
at a time because their only focus is the next opponent.
But for the past two and a half 
weeks, they said they’ve been think-ing about Kentucky.
They’ve been thinking about ev-
erything that went wrong in their Oct. 15 loss to the Wildcats, and they’ve made sure to work on those issues during their four-match win streak since the defeat.
Tonight at 7, they’ll get another 
shot. No. 4 Florida (18-1, 10-1 SEC) will be in Lexington to take on No. 6 Kentucky (19-2, 10-0 SEC) in a match that could determine this year’s SEC champion.
“We were so fortunate to have 
that experience in October so we can learn how we need to be playing 
in December,” senior Carli Snyder 
said. “We’ve been trying to clean up our right-side connection and it’s been tremendous these past few games.”
Senior Caroline Knop said that 
it’s important for the team to come into the game ready to compete at a high level and with the right 
mindset. If they can keep their com-
posure and stay focused, Knop be-lieves she and her teammates can win the match.
“We have got to come out swing-
ing and absolutely throw punches early, often and we cannot stop,” Knop said.
Florida coach Mary Wise hopes 
her team’s defense will fare better against the Wildcats’ offensive at-tack this time around. When the two teams first met, Kentucky found its groove quickly, finishing the game with a hitting percentage of .309, easily the highest number allowed by Florida this season.
“What makes them so good is their ability to point-score from pin to pin,” Wise said. “They have two senior (middle blockers) that are elite, then their pin hitters are very, very efficient, high-flying, hard-hit-ting players.”
Coming into tonight’s match, 
Kentucky is ranked No. 4 in the country in team hitting percentage, while Florida’s defense ranks third in opponents’ hitting percentage.
Wise said it will be “quite the 
challenge” avoiding another offen-sive onslaught from the Wildcats.
“It’s going to take a complete, 
all-out team effort to try and slow it down,” she said.
Wise also recognizes what’s at 
stake tonight.
“The reality is there’s a lot riding 
on this match and we’re embracing that,” she said. “Our players are ex-cited about it. They understand the challenge.”
Knop talked about the match’s 
implications as well. 
Its winner can boost its odds to 
finish the season as SEC champions, and will also have a shot at starting the NCAA Tournament at home.
“I think that everybody is look-
ing at it as an opportunity to grow as a volleyball team and as players,” 
Snyder said. “This is a match that 
prepares us for December. We really want to focus on this one.”
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgGators want to ‘throw punches’ early in Kentucky rematch 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida libero Caroline Knop said the Gators want to start strong against a Kentucky team 
that dealt UF its first loss of the season. “We have got to come out swinging and absolutely throw punches early, often and we cannot stop, ” Knop said.
TENNIS
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Not much is different about Florida’s big-
gest fall tournament compared to year’s past. 
Except the fact that it’s roughly 2,300 miles 
away, being played outdoors instead of in-
doors and three more players will be repre-senting the Gators than last year’s group.
Normally held at the historically presti-
gious USTA/ITA National Indoor Intercolle-giate Championships in Flushing, New York, this season’s tournament is taking place in Indian Wells, California, at the Oracle ITA National Fall Championships.
The Gators are in a great position going 
into the tournament, having top seeds in both singles and doubles.
Senior Anna Danilina will be the lone rep-
resentative from the women’s team at the Fall Championships, holding the No. 1 seed in the women’s singles draw.
The Moscow native holds a 9-3 singles 
record going into competition in California. 
Danilina’s most recent matches come from the ITA Southeast Regional 
Championships, where the senior went 5-1 overall af-ter falling to Katarina Jokic of Georgia in the finals, 
6-4, 6-2.
In addition to Danilina, 
six Gators from the men’s 
team will travel to Califor-
nia to compete.
Alfredo Perez holds the No. 9 seed for the 
men’s singles draw, while Johannes Ingild-sen is close behind, holding the No. 12 seed going into the tournament.
Perez and Ingildsen — Florida’s only 
players with prior experience in the nation-al tournament — are also the No. 1-seeded team in the men’s double draw. The duo 
was able to claim its bid for the Fall Cham-
pionships at the beginning of October at the ITA All-American Tournament held in Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
This won’t be entirely new for the Gators 
pair, as it competed in doubles play at the National Indoor Intercollegiate Champion-ships back in 2016, taking home the consola-tion doubles title.
Perez and Ingildsen hold a 5-0 doubles re-
cord on the season heading into the tourna-ment’s doubles competition on Wednesday.
Two other Gator duos will join Ingildsen 
and Perez this week in doubles play.  
Freshman Duarte Vale and junior McClain 
Kessler are seeded No. 7 going into tourna-
ment play. And last Wednesday, freshman 
Oliver Crawford and senior Chase Perez-Blanco received an at-large selection, making them the third team to represent the Gators in California.
The Fall Championships, a five-day event, 
will conclude on Sunday.
Since the Fall Championships replaced 
the National Indoor Intercollegiate Champi-
onships, the Gators won’t have to adjust as 
much as they normally would in regards to playing surfaces and climate. 
“In New York, it was an indoor tourna-
ment, so it’s much faster,” women’s assis-
tant coach Dave Balogh said. “Players that 
hit the ball harder, players that attack more, definitely love that surface, and now, ev-eryone’s going outside in California… The courts aren’t going to be as fast as indoors.”
Men’s head coach Bryan Shelton said that 
the outdoor event will be favorable to the 
Gators because of their experience frequently 
practicing on outdoor courts.
Balogh added that the change in venue 
will not take away from the fact that the 
tournament will be highly competitive with 
some of the best tennis players in the country competing against each other.
In singles play, Danilina will take the 
court at noon against Vladica Babic of Okla-
homa State. Perez will start his match at 2 
p.m. against Nicolas Moreno de Alboran of UC Santa Barbara.
Kessler and Vale will start doubles play for 
the Gators at 6:30 p.m. against Tim Handel and Ruben Montano of Northern Arizona.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgUF sends seven Gators to National Fall ChampionshipsWhat:  Gators vs. Wildcats
When: T onight at 7
Where:  Lexington, 
Kentucky
Watch:  ESPNU
Last time:  UK won, 3-1, on 
Oct. 15
Danilina
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2017
before its season has begun, but in 
this particular instance, I have to agree with White.
Florida, which plays its ﬁ  rst ex-
hibition game of the year Thursday 
against Jacksonville, is not going to 
be as good as it was in 2016-17, es-pecially on the defensive end of the ﬂ  oor.
UF, carried by the efforts of for-
ward Devin Robinson, guard Kasey Hill and center John Egbunu, held its opponents to an average of only 66.5 points per game last season, the 
third-best mark in the SEC behind 
Alabama and South Carolina.
However, Robinson — who led 
the Gators in rebounds — and Hill — who led the Gators in steals — have moved on to the pros, while Egbunu — one of the country’s top defensive big men — is still recovering from a torn ACL and is expected to miss the 
ﬁ  rst half of the year.
What remains for Florida? A lot of 
unknowns.
Only three players on UF’s roster 
played over 15 minutes per game 
last season, not including Egbunu. And, for the third summer in a row, the Gators failed to earn a commit-ment  from any of the nation's top-
50 recruits, according to ESPN.
So don’t expect the same postsea-
son magic from Florida next March that it experienced eight months ago. 
Just ask White, who when ques-tioned about his team’s potential this season, didn’t sound convinced it could earn “the same amount of wins” or go “back to the Elite Eight.” “I don’t know about many of 
those things,” he said.
Dylan Dixon is the Alligator’s as-
sistant sports editor. Contact him at 
ddixon@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14UF plays irst exhibition game Thursday
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Men's basketball coach Mike White has tempered his expectations for this season, saying he doesn't know if UF will return to the Elite Eight.
Oct. 15. 
In the 14th minute, an Au-
burn press led to the game’s 
ﬁ  rst meaningful chance 
when Jaelyn Gadson swiped the ball from UF defender Parker Roberts just in front 
of the endline and found El-
lie Leek alone in the Gators 
box. Leek riﬂ  ed off a shot, 
but not before goalkeeper 
Kaylan Marckese dashed into position to make an impres-sive foot save. 
Another press deep in the 
Florida half led to an Auburn scoring chance in the 20th minute when Gadson took on Marckese in a one-on-one 
opportunity. Her shot beat 
Marckese, but bounced back into play off the far post. 
The Gators had early 
scoring chances of their 
own despite being without 
SEC Freshman of the Year, forward Deanne Rose, who is currently with the Cana-
dian National Team ahead 
of a pair of friendly matches against the United States in mid-November. 
Rose’s replacement, 
freshman Madison Alexan-der, had a breakaway chance in the seventh minute, but 
her shot was saved comfort-
ably by goalkeeper Sarah Le Beau. 
Roberts also nearly con-
verted a headed chance on a Briana Solis corner kick in the 12th minute. Roberts made good contact, but her 
shot was cleared off the line by the Auburn defender sta-tioned at the near post.
Auburn outshot UF 7-6 in 
the ﬁ  rst half, but a handball 
in the 30th minute just out-
side the Tigers' box set up 
Araujo's free kick. The goal is only Araujo’s second of the season and her second game winner, the ﬁ  rst com-
ing against No. 1 Stanford on 
Aug. 25.
The opening goal turned 
the momentum of the match 
in favor of Florida. 
“I think the biggest take-
away was advancing the 
ball,” Burleigh said. “When we have composure and 
keep the ball moving, it’s re-
ally difﬁ  cult for other teams to deal with.”
UF was able to pass the 
ball away from Auburn's press for the remainder of the game, eating up the clock and keeping the remainder of the chances in the Tigers' 
half of the ﬁ  eld. The Gators 
only allowed three shots af-ter they took the lead, none of which fell on target and 
two of which came desper-
ately in the ﬁ  nal six minutes.
“I don’t think we played 
our best game, but it’s much better to come out with a win 
and not play well,” Burleigh 
said. “And you have to give credit to Auburn, especially in the last 15 minutes or so. 
They really pumped balls 
into the box, but I thought we weathered that pretty well.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg. 14UF tops Auburn, 1-0
with his feet.
“I’m excited to see what he can do 
for the rest of the season,” running 
back Mark Thompson said. "I’ve al-ways been excited about what he can do. And it will be a positive outcome no matter who’s lined up at quarter-
back.”
Shannon said Florida hasn’t come 
to a decision, but vowed to play to 
the strengths of whoever is lined up 
under center against Missouri on Sat-
urday.
“We’ve got to put the quarterback in a situation where they’ll feel com-fortable,” Shannon said. “So we’ve 
got to make sure we do the things 
that he can do, whichever quarter-
back it is, that make us successful.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Zaire back in contention to start at QB