NEW STUDENT EDITION 2017WHAT’S HAPPENING?
2017 Global Culture Photography 
Competition open now
UF’s International Center (UFIC) 
invites students, faculty, staff and 
alumni to enter its annual interna -
tional photography contest. Each 
entrant may submit up to two digital photos in only one chosen category. 
Unedited photos are preferred, but 
minimally edited photos will be ac -
cepted. For complete instructions, 
deadline, suggestions, cash awards 
information and categories, please 
visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.
html or email mcardec@ufic.ufl.
edu. Submissions are accepted from 
now until Oct. 13.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St .  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 167
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
  mwatkinson@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online  Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
 Assistant Sports Editor   Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board  Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson  
 Photo Editor  Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price
 Copy Editors  Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti  
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives  Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonLocally-sourced foods prepared from scratch daily
Choose to eat meals prepared with integrity
At your healthy lifestyle center
Welcome back!
17 NW 17th ST.
(352)505-5282grill-fresh.com$1 OFF ANY BOWL
(not valid with any other offer through 
September 15, 2017)
12 NW 7 TERR
“right behind  
Enterprise Rent-A-Car”
352-872-5655
Addiction TattoosTattoo &  Piercing
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
Pick up 
your NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
Hi Students!
Come discover your brand-new Publix in Gainesville. We’re just a quick walk, skip, or scooter ride away from 
campus. You’ll find everything you’ve come to expect from Publix: Grab and Go options galore,  
Online Easy Ordering for fast and convenient service, and tailgating essentials for game day!
As a welcome back from all of us at Publix, enjoy the exclusive offer below .  
We look forward to serving you and to being your new neighbor.
Publix at University Village Market
203 NW 13th St
Gainesville, FL 32601Store: 352.375.2775
Store Hours:
7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. daily
Pharmacy Hours:
Monday - Friday: 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.Saturday: 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.Sunday: 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.Pharmacy: 352.339.7474
publix.com
NW 3rd A ve.
W. University A ve.NW 13th St .
Limit one coupon per household per day. Excluding all alcohol, 
tobacco, lottery items, money services, postage stamps, gift cards, and prescriptions. Customer is responsible for all applicable taxes. Reproduction or transfer of this coupon is strictly prohibited. Offer good 8/14/2017–8/27/2017 at your neighborhood Publixoff
your purchase
of $30 or more$5
LU# 129444   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer 
On July 27, UberEATS launched 
its app in Gainesville — the first 
college town in Florida to use the 
company’s food delivery service.
Stemming from the original 
Uber app, which is used to trans -
port people to and from specific 
locations, UberEATS is a separate 
app where drivers can deliver food 
to anyone anywhere in Gainesville.
JP Restrepo, the general man -
ager of UberEATS Florida, said 
launching UberEATS in Gainesville 
was part of a widespread initiative 
to expand the company to cities in 
Florida.
Since Gainesville is a college 
town, Restrepo said Uber has a 
strong presence and is known for 
its reliability and affordability, making it a top choice for food de -
livery.
“We’re very confident that this 
is going to be a very good market 
and place for UberEATS,” he said.
Restrepo said UberEATS allows 
customers to see a restaurant’s full 
menu and has a flat-rate delivery 
fee of $4.99.
He added UberEATS has a 
shorter wait time than other deliv -
ery companies, averaging about 35 
minutes, and it operates 24/7.  
“The user gets to track the order 
as well, from the moment they put 
in the order on the app,” Restrepo 
said.
Although Uber and UberEATS 
are two separate apps, he said 
customers and drivers can use the 
same account for both.
“In addition to transporting pas -
sengers, you’re also going to have the ability to deliver food if you’d 
like,” Restrepo said.  
Javier Correoso, the public af -
fairs manager for Uber Florida, said 
UberEATS is focused on adding a 
variety of food options to their list 
of restaurants, particularly local 
places.
Popular food chains, such as 
BurgerFi and Moe’s Southwest 
Grill, will always be available to 
customers. However, Correoso said 
the company is working on adding 
more local places to their app.
While Uber has a well-known 
name, UberEATS is going to face 
competition in the Gainesville area 
with delivery companies that have 
already established a reputation, 
such as Bite Squad.
Craig Key, the vice president 
of marketing for Bite Squad, said 
he is confident it will continue to prosper even with the presence of 
UberEATS.
He said although Bite Squad 
came to Gainesville in February, 
the city has become one of the 
company’s best markets.
“It went from our newest mar -
ket to one of our top performing 
markets in just a matter of a few 
months,” Key said.
Key said there will be a percent 
of the population who use Uber -
EATS. However, he said while they 
might see a little blip on the radar, 
he knows customers will be able to 
see a clear difference in superiority.
“Our focus has been less about 
the competition, and it’s just been 
more about stepping up with right 
drivers, having great restaurants in 
Gainesville … and the rest kind of 
works itself out,” Key said.
UF telecommunication senior Caitlin Allweiss, who likes to use 
delivery services when she doesn’t 
feel like driving to Southwest Ar -
cher Road, said she’s interested to 
see how competition between the 
two will play out.
Allweiss, 21, said before Bite 
Squad came to town earlier this 
year, she used services like 352 
Delivery, Gainesville2Go, Doorstep 
Delivery and 2 Dollar Delivery.
Now, she uses Bite Squad about 
five times a month to order food 
from restaurants including Bento, 
Zoe’s Kitchen and SweetBerries.
Although a loyal Bite Squad cus -
tomer, Allweiss said she’s heard 
nothing but good things about 
UberEATS and will most likely try 
it in the future.
“If UberEATS is cheaper and 
faster, I think it’ll probably do bet -
ter than Bite Squad,” she said.Food-delivery app UberEATS now available in Gainesville
@OCONNELLCTR
oconnellcenter.uﬂ.edu
250 Gale Lemerand Drive, Gainesville, FL 32611 
Main: 352.392.5500 | Box Ofﬁce: 352.392.1653 | scoc-info@uﬂ.edu
FANS WELCOME
CONCERTS | EVENTS | GATOR ATHLETICS | RECREATION | EMPLOYMENT
Open Daily
6 am -9 pm
2010 N Main St., Gainesville, FL     352-375-141110% Discount Always
with Student/Faculty IDEvery T uesday 3-9 pm
Buy one Burger & Fries  
Get second 1/2 off  
with Student/Faculty ID
expires 9/30/2017Serving Breakfast Anytime
Not valid with any other offerDINETTE SET         $99
5-DRAWER CHESTS $79
4-PIECE QUEEN  
BEDROOM SET   $299
SAME-DAY 
DELIVERY
callamattressinc.com    4390 SW 20th Ave.    352-376-0953TWINS $49
FULLS $69
QUEENS $89
KING $99
Includes Mattress & BoxspringsPRE-OWNED MATTRESS SETS
TWINS $89
FULLS $129
QUEENS $149
KING $199
Includes Mattress & BoxspringsMATTRESS CLOSE -OUTSET SET
TWINS $249
FULLS $299
QUEENS $399
KING $499
Includes Mattress & BoxspringsNEW PILLOWTOP SETSCALL-A-MATTRESS SUPERSTOREFUTON 
W/MATTRESS  $99
#1 IN VALUE, QUALITY AND  PRICE   •  STUDENT DISCOUNTS
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
In a Twitter video released 
Wednesday afternoon, UF President 
Kent Fuchs — decked out in Gator-
themed gym clothes and a protec -
tive head piece — stood next to pro -
fessional wrestler and UF alumnus 
Thaddeus Michael Bullard, better 
known to wrestling fans as Titus 
O’Neil.
“I’m very excited about getting 
ready to kick our president’s a--” 
O’Neil said.
At New Student Convocation 
on Aug. 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the 
O’Connell Center, a special video 
featuring O’Neil and Fuchs will be 
shown as a fun way to introduce 
new students to the university, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando said.“We’re getting ready to do some -
thing very adventurous because he 
loves the University of Florida so 
much,” O’Neil said in the video, 
with Fuchs smiling next to him.
Orlando said the video will then 
be distributed around more broadly 
to help kick off the new school year.
What will actually be happening 
in the video is unknown, Orlando 
said.
“It’ll be a nice surprise,” he said.
Before his career in profes -
sional wrestling and years in the 
Arena Football League, O’Neil was 
a Gator. From 1997 to 2000, O’Neil 
played for the Florida Gators foot -
ball team under coach Steve Spurri -
er, and in 2000 he served as Student 
Government vice president.
Orlando said O’Neil is mak -
ing his appearance with Fuchs pro bono.
Fuchs wrote in an email that 
he’s grateful and excited to be mak -
ing this video with O’Neil.
“Titus (Thaddeus) is a pretty 
special Gator, willing to give his 
time to numerous good causes and 
to his alma mater when asked,” 
Fuchs said.
The promotional video was ini -
tially released on O’Neil’s Twitter 
page, which about 571,000 people 
follow.
“As you notice he is very dapper 
in his wrestling outfit,” O’Neil said, 
complimenting the president.
“Arms are out,” he said while 
lifting Fuchs left arm.
Fuchs flexed his arm in response.
dhoffman@alligator.org
@hoffdavid123Fuchs and pro wrestler to face off in Convocation video
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF President Kent Fuchs will battle pro wrestler Thaddeus Michael 
Bullard, known as Titus O’Neil, in the 2017 Convocation video.
100’s of
New Choices
 coming
august 21st
Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Mon. Aug. 21 thru Fri. Aug 25
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
2100 SW 34th ST
Call (352) 336-6303
facebook.com/aquatropicsgainesvillefish
Aquatropics
FIND THE perfect pet  
for your dorm room or apartment!
for 10% off saltwater fish purchase
or 20% off freshwater fish purchase
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/17.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 08/31/17.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORNEW STUDENT EDITION
MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
A few goals for new, returning Gators this semester
Welcome to UF!  Whether you just 
graduated from high school and 
have moved to Gainesville to start 
your bachelor’s degree or you at -
tended college in another country 
and have come to Florida to pursue a graduate 
or professional degree, I am so pleased you 
chose UF as your university. I have three goals 
for you this academic year.  
My first goal is for you to learn and achieve more 
than you thought possible through challenging yourself 
academically and intellectually. Our aspiration for UF, 
including its students and faculty, is that we will be 
known worldwide for our excellence and leadership. I 
hope UF will shape how you think and what you do for 
the rest of your life.
My second goal is for you to be personally enriched 
by the amazing breadth and diversity of this univer -
sity. UF is intentionally and intensely comprehensive 
in its programs and people. There are only a handful of 
universities in the world that can approach our combi -
nation of excellence and breadth. This diversity is vis -
ible in our 16 colleges and hundreds of undergraduate 
and graduate programs, both residential and online. 
Our comprehensive excellence also extends outside the 
classroom, including in our world champion athletic programs and UF Health hospitals. With stu -
dents and faculty from more than 100 nations 
and six continents, I predict you will be en -
riched by those with whom you study, learn 
and play.
Finally, I hope you will find UF to be a per -
sonal university. My goal is not just that we 
will be known as one of the world’s very best 
universities, but also that we will be known 
as a university that cares about its people. Starting with 
the president, please know that the administration, fac -
ulty and staff are here for you and care deeply about 
you.
As new students arrive, my wife Linda and I will be 
living in Jennings Hall. We look forward to welcom -
ing you to UF and meeting your family members and 
friends. Residents of Jennings will be pleased to know 
that by the first day of classes, Linda and I will have 
moved back to our permanent residence in the Dasburg 
House. When you see Linda or me walking across cam -
pus, talking to students on Turlington Plaza or at an 
athletic event, please introduce yourself. I look forward 
to meeting you. My personal email is kent.fuchs@ufl.
edu .   
As you will soon discover, It is great to be a Florida 
Gator.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. Welcome to 
College: It’s time to 
find yourself
Every UF student can remember their first day as an official 
Gator. We dubbed ourselves “baby Gators” since the second 
week in February, but it wasn’t until our move-in dates that 
it really hit us — we were no longer baby Gators, now just 
Gators.
The feeling of anticipation, nervousness and excitement 
that we are sure you have been feeling is something consis -
tent among all new students. Nonetheless, you probably still 
looked around the hallways of your dorm and thought your 
peers and new classmates looked confident and fearless. Don’t 
worry, we all thought so, too. Don’t worry, it couldn’t be fur -
ther from the truth.
The reality is this: Everyone is scared. Even returning stu -
dents still get pings of uncertainty as they find themselves 
once again thrown into the chaos of Fall semester. Coming to 
UF as a new student is intimidating to say the least. So don’t 
feel weak for being scared. We were all there at one point or 
another.
While the unknowns that your first semester holds can be 
terrifying, there is also a silver lining to this new beginning. UF 
is your fresh start. You can be anyone you want to be and do 
anything you want to do.
Coming to college gives you the opportunity to start off 
with a clean slate. UF has more than 50,000 student,s so 
chances are you’ll be able to find at least a few people who 
are interested in the same things you are. This gives you the 
opportunity to be yourself and express interests you may have 
kept hidden in high school for fear of seeming weird. 
College gives you the opportunity to be the real you.
Maybe you ended high school, feeling a bit let down. May -
be you didn’t make lifelong friendships or maybe you felt like 
you never got the chance to be as involved as you wanted to 
be. College is your chance to make up for these regrets.
You no longer have your parents watching your every 
move, and you no longer have a high school class full of judge -
mental gossipers. The truth is, in college, people really don’t 
care what you do.
After a short while, you’ll start to notice that you will actu -
ally get more respect when you just be yourself. People can tell 
if you pretend to be something you’re not or if you only act a 
certain way to make them like you.
College is a time to explore your passions and figure out 
what you want to do with your life. The only way you’re going 
to be able to do that is by being the real you. 
If there is one piece of advice we could tell our freshmen 
selves, it would be to stop caring so much about what other 
people think and worry more about ourselves.
If you are interested in a club, go to a meeting. Don’t skip 
it because none of your friends will go with you. If you want 
to try our Greek life, rush. Don’t avoid it because of the stereo -
types. If you want to try out for a club team, go for it. Don’t be 
discouraged by the amount of hype around it. Enroll in classes 
outside of your major, and get involved in clubs just for fun. 
Four years seems like a long time, but it goes by quick. Don’t 
waste time doing what you think you’re supposed to do. Use 
your time finding out what you love and where your passions 
lie. Use this time to find yourself. 
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“Starting with the president, please know that the administration, faculty and staff are 
here for you and care deeply about you.”
Kent Fuchs
University PresidentNEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
FIND YOUR 
GA TOR NET COMMUNITY
Enjoy the only all-fiber-optic Internet service  in 
town at these exclusive properties.
Gigabit Communities
Archstone Apts
Ashton Lane
Ashton Lane II
Camden Court
Deco ‘39
Greystone AptsHeritage Oaks Apts
Ivy House Apts
Royale Palms Apts
Sabal Palms
Savion Apts
SolariaStratford Court
The Estates at Sorority Row
The Ridge at Gainesville
Tuscana Apts
Union Street Apts
Windsor Hall
100 Mbps Communities
Brandywine Condos 
Carver’s Corner
Casablanca East CondosDestiny Condos
Freddie’s Garden
The CourtyardsThird Place at Midtown Apts
University Terrace West
50 Mbps Communities
Arlington Square Phase IV
Avenyl
Brytan
Cabana Beach
Campus View Place Apts
Campus View South Condos
Countryside at the University  The Craftsman Luxury Townhomes 
Cypress Glen
Gainesville Palms
JTW Properties
Kensington North Condos
Kensington South Condos
Laurel Vue
LynCourt SquareLyons Corner 1 & 11
Oak Hammock Villas
Regents Park Condos
Union Street Station Condos
Victoria Station
West 20
Woodbury Row
www.Gator.net8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
 I spent my entire life in Tallahassee be -
fore starting at UF in January. Following 
my high school graduation, I — like many 
18 year olds — had no idea what I wanted 
to major in, although that’s far from the 
case now.
The answer? Community college, an ex -
ploratory period at roughly half the univer -
sity price.
I still remember the first day of classes 
at Tallahassee Community College. I was 
in awe: Compared to my high school expe -
rience, the sheer difference in the size of 
both the campus and number of students 
present was crazy.
And then I transferred to UF’s College of 
Journalism and Communications.
Wow.
So many people, so many buildings, 
so many places to eat, so many gyms, so 
many libraries.  This is the place to be, I 
thought.
By far the biggest difference, however, 
was made abundantly clear from the start: 
school spirit.I remember shuffling into the 
Reitz Union at 8 a.m., only half-
awake as orientation was set to 
kick off.
That changed quickly as about 
20 preview staffers marched into 
the room, chanting “It’s great! 
To be! A Florida Gator!” repeat -
edly in thunderous unison.
Needless to say, I was jolted 
awake. This level of school spirit was un -
like anything I had ever seen.
That leads me to UF athletics. Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium seats more than 90,000 
when the football team gears up on Satur -
days, and estimated attendance for April’s 
Orange and Blue debut — basically a glori -
fied practice — was nearly 50,000.
That’s more than TCC’s entire Student Body during my time there. Yes, 
Gator sports are HUGE here in 
Gainesville.
But it’s not just the teams 
wearing orange and blue.
My entire exercise regimen 
consists of walking to school, 
basketball and weightlifting. So 
sure, the TCC gym was more 
than adequate for my needs. But 
UF’s three gyms top that.
The Southwest Recreation Center is 
the largest of the three and offers a mix of 
indoor and outdoor sports, including rac -
quetball, basketball, volleyball and more, 
as well as a weight room and cardio sec -
tion.
Next difference: the student resources. I 
typically go to the Marston Science Library to study, although your options extend 
well past that.
There is a 3-D printer in Marston. A 3-D 
printer! 
And each chair in the computer lab had 
two screens. Fantastic. My new school had 
better technology and more of it.
Last, but certainly not least, let me tell 
you about on-campus dining options. Back 
home at TCC, there was a coffee shop I 
would go to from time to time.
At UF, there is a Starbucks around every 
corner.
At TCC, my lunchtime routine was ro -
tating between my choices of Subway, the 
Chinese restaurant and that fried chicken 
joint in the student union. Eleven of Flor -
ida’s more than 45 dining spots are in the 
Reitz Union alone.
Buckle up, transfers. You’re about to be 
spoiled by the university experience.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgAdvice for the new Fall transfer students at UF from a former transfer 
“So many people, so many buildings, so many places to eat, so many 
gyms, so many libraries.  This is the place to be, I thought.”
Andrew Huang
Alligator Staff Writer
Andrew Huang
opinions@alligator.orgNEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer 
Just north of University Av -
enue, Gainesville’s 13th Publix lo -
cation has opened its doors to the 
UF community.
The campus-oriented grocery 
store, located at 203 NW 13th St., 
officially opened May 4. It includes 
a pharmacy, a Starbucks and an 
outdoor lounge area. The park -
ing lot includes 63 car spots, four 
handicap spots, 32 scooter spots 
and two spaces for motorcycles, 
according to Alligator archives.
“Publix is proud to open its first 
store in this beautiful community 
near the University of Florida, 
which includes a Starbucks,” said 
Dwaine Stevens, a spokesperson 
for Publix.
The store hired 145 new em -
ployees and is open from 7 a.m. to 
11 p.m. daily, Stevens said.
Prior to its grand opening, in a 
show of support for the communi -
ty, Stevens said Publix donated to four local charities. The donations 
included $296,500 to United Way 
of North Central Florida, $3,044.43 
to the Field and Fork Pantry, 
$70,000 to Alachua County’s Habi -
tat for Humanity and $64,809.16 to 
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
Although some students say the 
store is smaller than they would 
have liked, many agree that the 
on-campus location is convenient.
“It’s kind of small, but it’s also 
kind of close to where I live,” said 
Keira Wharton, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology freshman. “So it’s con -
venient.”
Sydnee Vaughan, 18, said she 
believes the new store is close to 
everything, making it easily ac -
cessible to students who live on 
campus.
“Honestly it’s great,” the UF 
nutritional sciences freshman said. 
“It’s very convenient, it’s very 
modern.”
aturner@alligator.org 
@fladam98New UF-centric Publix open on northwest 13th Street
Courtesy to the Alligator
The new Publix, located at 203 NW 13th St., is near UF’s campus and includes a Starbucks. The store 
officially opened on May 4, and the hours are 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., daily. 
COLLEGE
FRI-YAYS
10
%OFF
EVERYTHING
SHOW US YOUR COLLEGE ID & 
WEAR YOUR SCHOOL COLOR S
EVERY FRIDAY
JULY 21ST-SEPTEMBER 1ST
GOT SCHOOL SPIRIT? SHARE IT!
#LIFEISRIDICULOUSLYAWESOME
Lease It’  NO CREDIT REQUIRED
$40 OR LESS takes it home today!
Visit your local K-MART  for more info. 900 NW 76th Blvd.
Renaissance JewelersRenaissance Jewelers
@rrenaissanceFollow us on:
(352) 335 – 7188
3455 W University Ave
“We aren’t just another jewelry store, 
we’re a store where heirlooms are  
created and legends live on. ”
GOLD • SILVER • PLATINUM
DESIGNER • ANTIQUE • ESTATE
CUSTOM ORDER • REPAIR
ROCKS & MINERALS • COLLECTIBLES
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
By Abigail Miller
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite what your Advanced 
Placement and International 
Baccalaureate teachers may 
have told you, college is chal -
lenging no matter the amount 
of rigorous classes you took 
in high school. Coming to col -
lege, you have new stressors 
you probably wouldn’t think of. 
Newfound freedom is an excit -
ing but scary thing. It’s your 
first time living on your own, 
your first time creating your 
own schedule and your first 
time not having your parents 
around for constant support. 
Adjusting can be difficult, 
but that’s why we want to give 
new Gators some tips when it 
comes to managing stress dur -
ing their first year of college.
For most of us, college is the 
first time we are living with an -
other person we aren’t related 
to. That means we have to re -
member to be respectful and 
mature. Don’t eat food that isn’t 
yours, don’t leave your dorm 
room a mess or bring home 
strangers without warning. Re -
member that you’re no longer 
living with your mom, and your 
roommate isn’t required to love 
you. By being respectful, you’ll be able to avoid fights, passive 
aggressiveness and general up -
set in your dorm room. Being 
able to come home at the end 
of the day to a peaceful and re -
spectful environment will serve 
you well throughout your first 
year.
Another thing you need to do 
in your first year of college to 
avoid stress is go to class. This 
sounds like common sense, 
but it’s easy to get caught up 
in all of your extracurriculars 
or social activities and forget 
entirely what you are here for. 
Skipping class starts off harm -
less. You’ll tell yourself it’s OK 
to skip every now and then 
and quickly realize you haven’t 
been in class for three weeks 
and have an exam in two days. 
That’s when the stress sets in. 
Do yourself a favor: go to class 
and pay attention while you’re 
there.
Like I mentioned earlier, col -
lege is our first time without 
our parents. At first, this seems 
like a stress reliever. Your mom 
can’t nag you about your outfits 
anymore, and your dad won’t 
constantly lecture you on your 
spending habits. You’re free, 
right? While this sounds like 
paradise, you’ll miss your par -
ents. A lot. Try to call them at least once a week. You won’t 
realize it at first, but you still 
need your parents. They are the 
only people who will listen to 
you complain incessantly and 
always be your biggest fan. One 
of the biggest stress relievers 
you can do is call your mom.
The last key to preventing 
stress in college is exercise. 
Most of us had the structure 
of a school sports team in high 
school to whip us into shape. 
In college, we have to rely on 
our own motivation, which 
sometimes falls short. Exercise 
releases endorphins and will 
help you feel happier on a daily 
basis. Furthermore, exercising 
regularly will keep you from 
gaining the freshman 15, an -
other big stressor for incoming 
college students.  
Granted, even if you follow 
all of these tips, you will still 
find yourself in moments of im -
mense stress throughout your 
first year at UF. It’s not easy, 
but you should try your best to 
prevent as much stress as you 
can. Don’t feel bad when you 
screw up or feel like you can’t 
handle it. But also don’t go in 
with too much arrogance. You’ll 
fall down for sure, but you’ll al -
ways be able to get back up.How to avoid being incredibly stressed in college
Alligator file photo
College can cause immense stress, so it is important to maintain healthy 
habits to help reduce those feelings.
TEXTBOOK DISCOUNT DAY
ALL NEW AND USED TEXTBOOKS WILL BE 7% OFF
Monday
August 14th
Levin College of Law BookstoreMonday
August 21st
UF Bookstore in the Reitz UnionHealth Science Center Bookstore
**The Price Match Guarantee: If you find an identical in-stock textbooks for rent or purchase priced lower elsewhere we’ll Match it at the register! Excludes rentals, digital titles and on-line purchases.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Morgan McMullen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students can find them -
selves falling into several differ -
ent niches once they arrive in 
Gainesville. Intramural sports 
teams, Greek life and different 
clubs on campus can divert stu -
dents’ attention from school or 
other social and professional ob -
ligations. 
There is one other way stu -
dents can be sidetracked. It 
comes in the form of an online 
community dedicated to the cre -
ation of UF-based memes. 
The Facebook page is called 
“Swampy UF memes for top ten 
public teens.” It takes a satirical 
look at physical features of UF’s 
campus as well as the political 
and social issues that surround 
the university. 
Rebecca Ragan, a 19-year-old 
UF music and chemistry sopho -
more, began the group March 21. 
Though the group is only months 
old, it has already accumulated 
more than 16,000 followers.
“One of my high school class -
mates started ‘Yale Memes for 
Special Snowflake Teens,’ and 
I thought of how people always 
refer to UF as a public ivy,” Ra -
gan said. “I noticed most of the 
Ivy League and upper-tier uni -versities had meme pages, so I 
thought it would be fitting for UF 
to have one as well.”
The group’s memes range 
from the innocence of Sponge -
Bob Squarepants to the raun -
chiness of out-of-context porn 
screenshots to national political 
discourse. The $2 million allo -
cated for the Reitz Union rail -
ings, UF President Kent Fuchs’ 
pool and Student Body President 
Smith Meyers’ arrest in Key West 
have all garnered a fair amount 
of attention on the page. 
“The reception has always 
been overwhelmingly positive,” 
Ragan said. “I know that there 
are people who don’t enjoy the 
group, and that’s totally fine.” 
Kelena Klippel, who gradu -
ated from UF last Spring with a 
B.A. in English, is one of the 14 
moderators of the group and has 
the responsibility of either ap -
proving or rejecting memes sub -
mitted to the page. 
“I’d say at least 10 or 15 on 
a slow day,” the 22-year-old said 
when asked how many memes 
the moderators review on a daily 
basis. “It varies.”
Klippel said her favorite meme 
on the page was a video parody -
ing the opening to the show “The 
Office.” 
“I love the memes that obvi -ously show originality and time 
put into them,” she said. 
Klippel became somewhat of 
a celebrity since her time in the 
group began the day of its incep -
tion.
“At first, it was purely come -
dic,” Klippel said regarding her 
relative internet fame. “But after 
borderline creepy memes being 
made about me, it started getting 
strange, yes. Despite that, this 
whole status is so surreal to me. 
I love making people laugh and 
being recognized for it makes me 
happy.” 
Contrary to Klippel, Ragan 
seems to keep a lower profile on 
the page she created. 
“I haven’t been at UF since 
Spring semester ended at the end 
of April, so it’s more due to me 
not being surrounded by the cul -
ture of UF all the time,” Ragan 
said.
Despite her time off from the 
page, Ragan said she hopes to 
be more active within the group 
once Fall classes begin. 
The memes approved by 
moderators tend to have a bias 
against the current Student Gov -
ernment and against Smith Mey -
ers in particular. However, Ra -
gan said she believes the photos Swampy memes attract more than 16,000 students, alumni
Courtesy to the Alligator
SEE MEMES,  PAGE 13
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
mocking campus organizations and 
individuals are all in good jest. 
Klippel said with the group of 
incoming freshmen, the direction 
that the page will take is up in the 
air. 
“I definitely think we’d get a 
taste of another perspective that 
most of us have already forgot -
ten, being in an unfamiliar place 
and all,” Klippel said. “We already 
have some Preview freshmen who 
have posted in the group, which is 
great.” 
As for incoming freshmen and 
those yet to join the group, Klippel 
had some advice. 
“Keep things original,” Klip -
pel said. “Don’t follow what other 
meme groups are doing. For exam -
ple, the Gator hats on pop culture 
references got kind of dry after a 
while.” 
Ragan said she has equally op -
timistic views about the future of 
the page. 
“UF has such a large and di -
verse Student Body,” she said. “I’m 
also expecting there will be a good 
variety coming from the freshman 
experience … I just hope the new 
students will enjoy the group.”
@MorganMcMuffin 
mmcmullen@alligator.orgCourtesies to the Alligator
The “Swampy UF memes for top ten public teens” Facebook page has 
more than 16,000 members. UF students and alumni create and share 
memes based around UF and Gainesville staples.
MEMES,  from pg 12The page is less than five months old.
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
TOTALTOTALIMAGESALON
115 NW 3RD ST
352.374.8200
CUT • SPECIALTY COLORS •
BRAZILIAN BLOWOUTS
Free Parking
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15 
By David Hoffman 
Alligator Staff Writer 
July 28 started like any other day for 
Gainesville Police Officer Ben Tobias — 
until he saw a video of the president’s 
speech to a group of fellow law en -
forcement officers.
“I’m a cop. I do not agree with or 
condone @POTUS remarks today on 
police brutality. Those that applauded 
and cheered should be ashamed,” 
wrote Tobias, the spokesperson for 
GPD, on his personal Twitter account.
It was 4:26 p.m. when he posted it. 
By midnight, it had reached 656,946 
people.  
“I never envisioned a time where I 
would be issuing remarks to the presi -
dent of the United States against some -
thing that they said,” Tobias said. “I 
have the highest respect for that office, 
no matter who holds that office.”
President Donald Trump spoke to 
police in Long Island, New York, on 
his administration’s fight against MS-
13, an internationally-known gang 
accused of several murders in Long 
Island. When speaking about arresting 
gang members and illegal immigrants, 
Trump said, “Please don’t be too nice.”
Trump told the officers that dur -
ing arrests, when they place suspects 
into the back of their patrol cars, they 
shouldn’t rest their hand on the arrest -
ees’ heads to keep them from slam -
ming into the vehicle. “You can take 
the hand away, OK?” Trump said to 
laughter and applause from some of 
the officers in the audience.
Tobias said after five years of work -
ing in the communications field and 
serving as GPD’s spokesperson, he un -
derstands that context is key. He said 
that although the president was speak -ing about MS-13 and serious criminals, 
there’s no dignity in roughing up pris -
oners after they’ve already been hand -
cuffed and detained.
“Once that person is handcuffed, 
no matter what they did, they are still 
a human being,” Tobias said. “That’s 
when the public looks to us to be the 
most professional.”
Since July 28, Tobias’ words were 
retweeted more than 109,000 times and 
liked more than 332,000 times. In ad -
dition to appearing on CNN, his tweet 
was featured in The New York Times.
Hours after Tobias’ personal tweet, 
GPD Chief Tony Jones gave Tobias per -
mission to draft GPD’s official response 
to the president’s words. Since late Fri -
day night, the agency’s Facebook post 
has reached more than 1 million peo -
ple, and its tweet has reached nearly 7 
million.
For some in the Gainesville commu -
nity, GPD’s exposure to the rest of the 
nation was a triumph.
As a person of color, Gainesville res -
ident Eddie Lee Edwards said Trump’s 
words pained him.
“It just cut against what I think 
should be the message of anyone 
in government,” Edwards, 39, said. 
“Hearing that message it was like, 
‘Great, now we have more fuel to an 
already tense situation about issues of 
police-citizen interaction.’”
Edwards, who’s lived in Gainesville 
since 1999, said over the years, he’s 
seen GPD grow to be one of the best 
police agencies he’s ever known.
Now a second-year law student at 
the Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law 
in Orlando, Edwards hopes to pass the 
Florida bar and practice criminal law in 
Gainesville after he graduates.
He said he feels safe with GPD, an agency he considers to be both profes -
sional and community oriented.
“The more positive press that GPD 
gets out, the better,” Edwards said. 
“Our institutions need to be speaking 
up for what’s right.”
But some residents felt as though 
GPD misconstrued Trump’s words and 
made a political move to get positive 
press.
Daniel Weldon, a chairman of the 
conservative Young Americans for 
Freedom organization, said he thinks 
GPD was in the wrong.
“They don’t have to experience the 
level of crime that MS-13 commits,” 
said the 20-year-old UF political science 
junior. “I think it was an extreme politi -
cal move in a very liberal city knowing 
that it would hit very well to get the no -
tion that Trump was pushing for police 
brutality.”
Mayor Lauren Poe said he felt 
GPD’s reaction had nothing to do with 
politics, but more about safety and mu -
tual respect that should exist between 
citizens and their police force.
“Our police department cannot 
serve and protect our citizens if our 
citizens are afraid of them,” Poe said. 
“It is so critical today more than ever 
that police departments build positive 
relationships with their community.”
Tobias said at the end of the day, 
police exist to serve the American peo -
ple, and, to do that, they must earn the 
people’s trust. He said his and GPD’s 
statements were to give what he knows 
the Gainesville community expects of 
its police force.
“I wanted to remind our communi -
ty, ‘Hey, Gainesville folks, this is who 
we are,’” Tobias said. “‘This is what 
we’re going to do, this is what we’re 
not going to do.’”‘Who we are’: Behind GPD’s social media fight against Trump
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police Officer Ben T obias in his office. He spoke 
out on Twitter against President Donald Trump’s support of 
police brutality. 
352-505-5304
shoresanhosp.com/boarding.html
one convenient location  •  3717 NW 13th Street Providing the best care in Gainesville 
for your best friend since 1974. 
352-372-8387
shoresanhosp.com
Your pet’s vacation destination! You do not have to stress about your furry family member while traveling. Prestige Pet Resort is their home away from home!– Deluxe Boarding Themed Suites– Half Pint Harbor for Small Dogs– Cat Cove with Spacious Condos– Doggy Day Care– Spa Grooming Services with 
Hydrosurge Massage Baths
PET RESORT     & SPA
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
WE TAKE YOUR WORKOUT TO  
THE NEXT LEVEL
MEMBERSH IPS 
AS LOW  AS 
$19.99
A MON TH & 0  DOW N
ATHLETIC TRAINING   
 TRX STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING   
COME SEE ALL THAT WE 
OFFER!
. 24 Hour Access 
.Boxing 
.Cardi ovascu lar T raining 
. Perso nal & Gro up Training 
.Sauna 
.Turf Training.Athletic Performance 
Training 
. Group Fitness Cl asse s 
. Pro Shop 
.Group exercise cl asse s 
 24/7 in our NEW  
On Demand stu dio!JOIN  NOW  AT BAILEYSGYM.COM 
3441 W. Universi ty Ave. 
GAINESVILLE, FL 
Corner of Universi ty & 34th  
352-373-4439 
 VISIT US TOD AY! 
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17 
By Mackenzie Duffy 
Alligator Staff Writer
For many students starting their 
first semester away from home, this 
is also your first time being in charge 
of your own budget. We all face the 
struggles of looking at our bank ac -
counts and seeing our balance dip -
ping below zero. Thankfully, a new 
year is a good time to start better 
habits, and let’s start with our bud -
get. Here are some tips to help you 
stay on budget and keep your bank 
balance on the positive side. 
Do it yourself:
As college students, we love giv -
ing our money away for a cute pair 
of shorts, a Chipotle burrito bowl, a 
large Dunkin’ Donuts coffee during 
happy hour and so on. However, 
these all drain our bank accounts — 
and we can make them ourselves. 
Hear me out. I’m not going 
against the age-old philosophy of 
“treat yo self.” Just do it in modera -
tion. Passed a test you spent days 
studying for? Treat yo self. Landed 
that job or internship you really 
wanted? Treat yo self. 
The easiest way to find do-it-
yourself inspiration is through Pin -
terest and YouTube, where you can 
find a slew of recipes and tips on 
how to recreate all the things you 
were willing to swipe your card for. 
One of the best DIY projects to tackle during Fall semester is game-day at -
tire — all you need is a trip to Good -
will, a pair of scissors and patience.
Although you may run the risk of 
not perfectly replicating the original 
you saw on Pinterest, it’s always 
better to save money when you can. 
Fun for less: 
It is easy to get swept up in the 
hype of going to Midtown every 
night or attending every show that 
comes to town. However, there are 
other things to do around Gainesville 
that thankfully won’t leave you with 
a wicked hangover the next morn -
ing.
For those who love the outdoors, 
pick a sunny day and take a drive 
to Lake Wauburg, which is free for 
UF students and up to four guests. 
Or visit Devil’s Millhopper Geologi -
cal State Park and Paynes Prairie 
Preserve State Park to take in all the 
beautiful sights. The Santa Fe Col -
lege Teaching Zoo, which is open 
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. seven days a 
week, is also free for Santa Fe stu -
dents and $5 for UF students with a 
current student ID.
If you don’t fancy the outside, 
head over to the Harn Museum of 
Art, where admission is free unless 
otherwise noted for certain pro -
grams. Then go right next door to 
the Florida Museum of Natural His -
tory — admission is free for all the 
museum’s permanent exhibits.Take advantage of all the fun, 
budget-friendly things Gainesville 
has to offer while you are still here.
Lists, lists, lists: 
It is essential to make a list be -
fore every food-shopping excursion. 
From personal experience, I know 
it’s easy to get swept up in the hype 
of new releases at Trader Joe’s. But reader, you have to put the jalapeño 
cheddar chips or the mocha cold 
brew back on the shelf, and remem -
ber that you are trying to stay on 
budget. 
Resurrecting the practice of 
writing a physical list and bringing 
it with you while you’re at the su -
permarket is a secret to preventing 
overspending. Although as millenni -als we normally use our notes app, 
there is something definite and final 
about a tangible piece of paper and 
crossing out each item as you put it 
into you cart. 
This list will also help you not get 
lost in the wonder of all the food you 
could possibly make. Stick to a food 
regimen so you don’t let food go to 
waste.Best ways to start and stay on a budget while at school
Robert Carroll / Alligator Staff
When trying to find free activities in Gainesville, check out some of the parks and nature preserves the 
city has to offer.
         SE 16th Ave
       S Main St
    S M ain St
    SE 16th Ave     Hull Rd   NW 8t h Ave         NW 8t h Ave
   SW 20th Ave     
 SW 20th Ave
   Hull Rd
     
 
 
 NW 62nd St 
 
 
      SW Williston Rd        SW Williston Rd      
 
        
 
 
SW 23rd Terrace           Museum Rd               Museum Rd
 
             Gale Lemerand Dr
 
    SW 35th PlUnion Rd
  Archer Rd        Archer Rd  Waldo Rd
       
 
W Newberry Rd 
 
     W. University Ave        W. University Ave
  SW 34th St       SW 34th St   
  
 
SW 34t
h S
t
      SW 13th St                SW 13th St
Sweetwater 
Wetlands ParkBiven’s Arm
Nature ParkLake AliceMark Bostick
Golf CourseLoblolly Woods
Nature Park
Clear Lake
Nature Park
Split Rock
Conservation Area
Kanapaha
Botanical GardensForest
Park
Lake
KanapahaClear Lake
Harmonic
Woods Flavet
Field
Hume
Biven’s ArmBoulware Springs
Nature ParkNorman
FieldPlaza of the
Americas
Depot Park
Natural Area 
Teaching Lab
Now accepting payments at Western Union locations including Publix, Walgreens and more.Avoid the crowd and take care 
of your service changes at 
gru.com/welcome.
PAYING YOUR
GRU BILL FASTAND EASYTHIS IS
Visit wu.com or scan here 
for participating Western Union Agent locations, including: Publix, SunTrust, Walgreens, Winn Dixie
Bring your GRU account number with you to 
the agent location. 
Fill out the BLUE section of the 
Western Union form (or at Walgreens, follow the screens on the kiosk) and complete your 
transaction with the store clerk  
A receipt will be provided to confirm your 
transaction, use the MTCN number on your receipt to track your transaction
$1.50 Money Transfer fee applies Pay your GRU bill in cash at Western Union® 
Agent locations.
ONLINE | MOBILE | IN STORE
©2015 Western Union Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All other logos, trademarks, service marks and trade names 
referenced in this material are the property of their respective owners.
18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Abigail Miller
Alligator Staff Writer
UF has incredible libraries and study spaces 
all around campus, but sometimes, you’ll want 
to get away. A lot of students have found off-
campus coffee shops that serve as a safe haven 
for all their solo study needs. In case you don’t 
have time to discover them on your own, we’ve 
made a cheat sheet for you, detailing the best 
places around Gainesville to get your caffeine 
fix.
Pascal’s Coffeehouse (112 NW 16th St.):
Pascal’s Coffeehouse is a UF staple. Located 
just behind Midtown, it’s easy to get to, and 
they brew some of the strongest coffee in town. 
Pascal’s provides a cozy environment that you 
won’t mind spending hours in. They also serve 
up fresh pastries that will make your mouth wa -
ter.
Karma Cream (607 W. University Ave.):
The word “granola” comes to mind when 
you think of Karma Cream. It’s a vegan’s par -
adise. This shop is known for their bounty of 
cruelty-free products and surprisingly delicious 
vegan ice cream. The shop has a more urban vibe than Pascal’s and can sometimes get a little 
bit noisy — definitely not a place for the easily 
distracted. However, it’s a great place to meet 
up with friends for a review session or to get your caffeine fix. Their nitro brew coffee and 
London Fog latte are some of the best drinks 
on the menu.Volta Coffee, Tea & Chocolate (48 SW 
Second St.):
Coffee snobs rejoice: Volta Coffee, Tea & 
Chocolate is not a place for the amateur coffee 
drinker. Volta has a wide array of in-season cof -
fee from all across the U.S. As their name sug -
gests, they offer coffee, tea and chocolate, and 
everything they serve is exceptional. Located in 
downtown Gainesville, the shop offers an urban 
atmosphere and unique sophistication.
CYM Coffee Co. (5404 NW Eighth Ave.):
CYM Coffee Co. has a small town, homey 
feel. They offer a plethora of unique latte fla -
vors like peanut butter and jelly and cinnamon 
honey. This coffee shop is somewhere you can 
stay at for hours and feel perfectly comfortable. 
It is a great place to set up shop for long study 
sessions during exam weeks.
Maude’s Cafe  (101 SE Second Place):
If you’d describe your closet as “mostly 
black,” you will probably love Maude’s Cafe. 
Maude’s has an alternative atmosphere and 
quirky setting. Their coffee is great, especially 
the Maude’s iced coffee — their iced black cof -
fee with milk, cinnamon and local honey. They 
offer a lot of seating, which is great for studying 
with friends. You can also buy a whole pitcher 
of iced coffee, which is great for study groups.A few of the best coffee shops to study at in Gainesville
Alligator file photo
Pascal’s Coffeehouse has a cozy environment for those in need of a place to study.
SweetBerriesGV
The best Frozen Custard ice cream around.
Walking distance from campus
505 NW 13th Street
Breakfast 7:30 am Mon. - Fri.
Open Daily at 11 am till 10 pm
Fri. - Sat. till 12 am
Deli Sandwiches, Soups, Salads and more
352Delivery
Takeout: 352-378-4972
LIVE MUSIC WEEKLY
Check Facebook Events page for schedule
SweetBerriesGainesville
10% oﬀ for
Alumni
352-373-6500
2435 SW 13th St.
401 NE 23rd Ave-Near Main St.
(Next to TB Goods Pawn)
Monday - Saturday 11 am-3pm
gainesvilleramen.com
tasty ramen at great pricestasty ramen at great prices
$1 OFF 
WITH THIS COUPONNEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19 
Two of the best resale stores in Gainesville
By Mackenzie Duffy 
Avenue Writer
Flashbacks Recycled 
Fashions
Flashbacks Recycled Fashions, 
located at 818 W. University Ave., 
is the epitome of thrift stores with 
its great selection and eclectic at -
mosphere. The store has an equal 
pick of old and new fashions alike 
in a variety of sizes. 
The vintage section of Flash -
backs is tucked in the back, be -hind the fitting rooms, and has a 
rustic atmosphere and faint smell 
of old leather.
Unlike so many smaller cloth -
ing stores in Gainesville, Flash -
backs offers a great selection for 
men, too.
The only stressful part about 
thrift shopping is the risk that you 
won’t find the perfect piece, so 
it’s best to enter Flashbacks with 
an open mind and try on anything 
that catches your eye — even the 
green velvet dress with the puffy 
sleeves.Plato’s Closet
If you are looking to purge 
your wardrobe this Fall and also 
pick up a few secondhand pieces, 
go to Plato’s Closet, located at 
3441 W. University Ave. B. 
Each type of clothing item is 
placed in a specific category and 
organized by color and size, mak -
ing it easy for shoppers to find 
what they’re looking for and cu -
rate whole outfits. From denim 
to heels to game day attire, you 
are more than likely to find what you’re looking for.
The only drawback to shop -
ping at Plato’s is the risk of pieces 
being in less-than-great condition. 
Too many times have I found the 
perfect pair of jeans among the 
rails — only to discover a broken 
zipper or a hole in the crotch.
When going Plato’s, it’s im -
portant to have patience and a 
good eye for clothing imperfec -
tions, but you are sure to find a 
diamond in the rough. With so many great thrift stores 
and discounted clothing shops in 
town, there is no need to spend 
an entire day sifting through the 
racks at H&M or Forever 21. Sec -
ondhand and thrift stores offer a 
glimpse into the eccentric essence 
of Gainesville, so always try those 
options first. 
As college students, we are be -
yond the days of hanging out at 
the mall, so try shopping second -
hand. You are almost guaranteed 
to find the same brands at any of 
the thrift stores in town, just with 
a bit more character.
SHOPPING
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
www.thebatteryland.com1535 NW 6th St
Gainesville, FL
INSURANCEEXPECT
SOMETHING
MORE
It starts with a simple quote.
As your AAA Agent, I offer Discounts 
for:  Accident free, Good Student Grades, Multiple Cars, Driver Training and more! Call us or stop by our AAA office for: Membership, Insurance and Travel!Lestine Ford
Field Insurance & Sales ManagerThe Auto Club Group1201 NW 13th StreetGainesville, FL 32601(352) 373-7801 Ext. 2236
lford@aaasouth.com
aaasouth.com/lestine.ford
Omelets – French Toast – Pancakes  
Hamburgers – Fries & More!207 NE 16th Ave · 352-378-0600 · 6 days a week
Breakfast & Lunch · Dine-In · Takeout16th Avenue Diner16th Avenue Diner
For 50 Years
NOW OPENGAINESVILLE’S NEWEST   
CRAFT BREWERY IS
IT ALL STARTS AT THE WELL
www.cypressandgrove.com LFRIDAY 3PM - 1OPM
SATURDAY 3PM - 10PM
SUNDAY 3PM - 9PM
MONDAY 5PM - 10PM
auto repair shop
$20 Oil Change up to 4qts
We carry car, truck and trailer tires 
Four new tires gets free alignment
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858
Blue Crystal Cornucopia, Inc.
- Reduces blood sugar levels
- Anti-inflammatory- Reduces risk of artery blockage- Relieves pain, anxiety, and depression- 100% legal in all 50 statesTuesday-Saturday 11 am-7 pm | 1801 NE 23rd Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32609 | (352)-378-2583Among Health Benefits of CBD Oil
- Relieves pain, anxiety , and 
depression- Reduces blood sugar levels- Anti-inflammatory- 100% legal in all 50 states- Alzheimer's“Your CBD Headquarters”
We sell Scared-Threads and 
Braja Clothes, Gem Stones, 
Jewelry , Crystals and  
Essential Oils.  
Visit our art gallery.
Mention this ad and get 
10% off your first purchase.
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  
more rewards.
Everything we do at ALDI is about doing more, offering more 
and delivering  more. Our success comes from asking a lot from 
our staff, and giving  a lot back in return. 
District Managers start out with a salary of $80K, a fully‑expensed Audi A3 and  a 50+ week onboarding program.  We’re proud 
that our wages, benefits and training are among the best in  the business. ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to 
generous compensation, and our District Manager position epitomizes this  philosophy. 
Come to our recruiting events, and hear for yourself how  ALDI 
relies on extraordinary people to do extraordinary things.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®
2017
20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Starting at a school like UF 
can be overwhelming, and figur -
ing out what artists are perform -
ing in the city can be the last 
thing on your mind when trying 
to acclimate to a new place like 
Gainesville. Here’s a quick run -
down of what concerts are worth 
attending throughout the first 
couple months of the school year.  
August
Aug. 25 — Hundred Waters at 
Heartwood Soundstage  
Heartwood Soundstage, one of 
Gainesville’s newest outdoor ven -
ues, will be hosting rising indie 
band Hundred Waters on the first 
Friday of the Fall semester. This 
show is a bit of a reunion, given 
that Hundred Waters met and 
formed right here in Gainesville. 
The show sold out so fast that Heartwood Soundstage decided to 
create another show earlier in the 
night. Be sure to grab your tick -
ets for this — the second show is 
sure to sell out quickly. 
Aug. 26 — Road To III Points 
at The Florida Theater
Besides being one of the most 
unique, experimental electronic 
festivals in the country, III points 
(held in Miami during October) 
also holds various shows along 
the way to increase publicity and 
hype. Gainesville happens to be 
one of the locations that these 
shows are held at, and this year’s 
edition will take place on the first 
Saturday of Fall. Ten DJs, some 
who will play at III Points in Mi -
ami and locals, will be perform -
ing throughout the evening. 
September 
Sept. 1 and 2 — Less Than 
Jake “Wake N Bake Weekend” at High Dive
Less Than Jake, a ska punk 
band known for hits like “The 
Rest Of My Life,” will return to 
High Dive during the first week -
end of September for their annual 
“Wake N Bake Weekend.” The 
Gainesville-born band will per -
form two nights and host various 
guest performers on both Friday 
and Saturday night. 
Sept. 20 — Funtcase at The 
Florida Theater 
Although not for the faint of 
heart, this concert is a must-see 
for any dubstep fan. Funtcase is 
a well known dubstep/drum-and-
bass producer who’s been creat -
ing music for years now. This 
show is unique in that it’s on a 
Wednesday night, giving you the 
opportunity to switch things up 
from the normal trip to Midtown 
or downtown. Sept. 22 and 23 — Spirit Fest 
— An Immersive Music and Art 
Fair at Heartwood Soundstage 
This immersive two-day mini-
festival pays homage to The JAM, 
an outdoor venue in Gainesville 
known for its welcoming atmo -
sphere, The JAM was forced to 
close in 2016 after their land was 
sold to build apartments, but 
the venue lives on in this festi -
val while celebrating Heartwood 
Soundstage at the same time. Al -
most 20 performers have already 
been announced for the event, 
and various vendors, food trucks, 
interactive elements and art in -
stallations will be present.  
October
Oct. 27, 28 and 29 — Suwan -
nee Hulaween at The Spirit of 
the Suwannee Music Park 
Although this festival doesn’t 
actually take place in Gainesville, it was worth including on this list 
because of its massive lineup and 
proximity to the city. A favorite 
by electronic, funk and jam band 
fans at UF, this music and arts 
festival takes place every year 
over the Halloween weekend at 
The Spirit of the Suwannee Music 
Park, a venue and campground 
located roughly an hour north 
from Gainesville. This year’s fes -
tival will bring names like GRiZ, 
Bassnectar, RL Grime, The String 
Cheese Incident, Run The Jewels, 
Lettuce and many more. 
Although these are concerts 
that have already been an -
nounced, new performances pop 
up almost every week in this city. 
Following venues like The Florida 
Theater, High Dive, Heartwood 
Soundstage and more is a great 
way to stay in the loop about who 
is making their way to Gainesville 
this year. Must-see Gainesville concerts during Fall semester
 MUSIC
FULL - SERVICE CATERING
Bringing love back to food, 
one sandwich at a time!
5/5 stars on Yelp!
 204 SW 2nd Ave 
Gainesville, FL 32601
1-352-727-7276
Tick tock
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve water
SAVE 50% 
OR MORE  
ON SELECT  
COURSE MATERIALS
When you register for 
certain courses, choose 
the All Access option  
to save money on digital
textbooks and materials 
you can access instantly.
www.gator1.ufl.edu  
(under the UF Bookstore tab)
LIVE MUSIC & EVENTS, DJ’S, ART SHOWS, COMEDY, 
THEATER, FOOD TRUCK RALLY’S, RENTALS
OUTDOOR BEER GARDEN, ALWAYS NO COVER
210 SW 2ND AVE. • 18+ WELCOME
NEXT TO 5 STAR PIZZA, DOWNTOWN
highdivegville
glorydayspresents@highdivegville
@glorydaysgnv
@highdivegville
@glorydaysgnv
MORE EVENTS AND INFO
www. HIGHDIVEGAINESVILLE .comTICKETS:
.comAUG 31  CHESTER BENNINGTON TRIBUTE
SEP 1 / 2 LESS THAN JAKE WAKE N BAKE WEEKEND
SEP 8  FAMILY FORCE 5
SEP 9  THE HEAVY PETS
SEP 13  MAGIC CITY HIPPIES
SEP 14  MCW MIDGET WRESTLING
SEP 23  ORIGINAL GVILLE FOOD TRUCK RALLY - FREE
SEP 27  PAPADOSIO
SEP 28  COREY SMITH
OCT 4, 12, 17  ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW
OCT 13  CRAIG FINN / JOHN K SAMSON
OCT 19  THE LACS
OCT 27 - 29  THE FEST 16
OCT 31  MARCUS KING BAND
NOV 8  WILD CHILD
NOV 11  HIPPO CAMPUS
DEC 12  OF MONTREAL
OCT 19  SCOTT BRADLEE’S POSTMODERN JUKEBOX  
 @ FL THEATER OF GAINESVILLENEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   21 
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
If you’re looking for a playlist to orient your -
self with your first week at UF, look no further. 
This list of seven songs will steer you in the right 
direction, at least until you play them to death. 
Grab your headphones and crank the volume. 
You’re welcome. 
1. “Welcome to the Jungle” by Guns N’ Roses
Stepping onto campus for the first time can 
seem daunting, but the best way to survive is by 
embracing the crazy. If you see a herd of students 
stampeding down the sidewalk, jump in or get 
out of the way. 
2. “School” by Calvin Harris
This electronic, jazz-inspired instrumental 
is perfect for walking to and from your various 
classes. It’s late-summer vibes will convince you 
that fall is actually on its way. Make sure you 
crank it loud to drown out Dennis screaming at 
you on Turlington Plaza.
3. “Where the Hell are My Friends” by LANY
This might hit a little close to home for the 
newbies here on campus, but you’ll probably ex -
perience a lack of close friends when first com -
ing to UF. It’s only temporary, and an in-between 
time of loneliness is normal — don’t sweat it. Try 
joining a club or student organization to meet 
like-minded people. 4. “Shake it Off” by Taylor Swift
I’m really only putting this in for Professor 
Mike Foley in UF’s College of Journalism and 
Communications. But seriously, first week jitters 
have a place in your life. If something makes you 
nervous, then you know it’s worth it. Eventu -
ally though, you should just shake it off. (Please, 
don’t tell Taylor I used her title without compen -
sating her. I have enough debt to pay off in stu -
dent loans.)
5. “Marmalade” by Macklemore (feat. Lil 
Yachty) 
This song is all about freedom and good times, 
which are what most of college should be about. 
Enjoy the time when you have nothing better to 
do than listen to music and hang out with your 
friends. It will soon end. 
6. “Secrets” by Mary Lambert 
Taking time for your mental health is incred -
ibly important, and being honest about your 
needs is one way to successfully navigate your 
college career. Bottling up your feelings helps no 
one. Check out UF’s resources at the Counseling 
& Wellness Center if you need support. 
7. “You Make My Dreams” by Daryl Hall & 
John Oats
This song has stood the test of time, and it will 
neatly tie up your first week. It’s important to re -
member that no one except you can make your 
dreams come true. UF is a great place to start, but it 
takes tenacity and grit to get where you want to go. Seven songs to help get you 
through your first week at UF
By Mackenzie Duffy
Alligator Staff Writer 
As the new semester begins, it’s 
important to curate a soundtrack for 
it. Thankfully, I have picked a few 
tunes to add to your playlist that are 
perfect for all-nighters, pre-games or 
just making it through Turlington Pla -
za without catching Dennis’ attention. 
“Bohemian Rhapsody” — Queen  
Need a new song to hype you up for 
your first exam or a workout? Queen’s 
classic rock anthem “Bohemian Rhap -
sody” is the best track when you can’t 
find the energy for anything. Long 
before the days of electronic dance 
music beat drops accompanied by 
lackluster lyrics, Queen was releasing 
tracks that captivated audiences. 
Like many of their other songs, 
Queen frontman Freddie Mercury 
wrote a timeless song that never dis -
appoints.
“Kiss” — Prince  
Whenever you keep matching 
glances with that cutie at Broward 
Dining, turn on this song to gain the 
confidence to talk to them.
This ‘80s classic adds a bit of funk 
to your playlist, and who better to 
bring it than the great Prince? His un -
paralleled high-pitched vocals are on full display during the entire song. 
The track is a great dance tune 
whenever you need a confidence 
boost, and it is a great song to round 
out your Fall playlist.
“The Sound” — The 1975 
The 1975’s music is alternative 
pop with psychedelic instrumentals, 
which compliments any feel-good 
mood. 
You are hooked from the first “Well 
I know when you’re around because 
I know the sound, I know the sound 
of your heart,” and the 2016 release 
leaves listeners dancing every time. 
The song is an introduction to a band 
that has songs that touch all sounds 
on the music spectrum — from alter -
native rock to pop to indie. 
“Formation” — Beyonce  
“Okay, okay, ladies, now let’s get 
in formation, ‘cause I slay.”
During the midterm week slump 
when you have to physically drag 
yourself out of bed to continue study -
ing, throw on “Formation” by Be -
yonce. 
From her “Lemonade” album, this 
track is a reminder to all of us that we 
slay in our own right and to keep go -
ing, even when the homework begins 
to mount on our desks.Top tunes to listen to 
during the Fall semester
Make your money life easier through FCU! W e’ve got 
convenient products lik e Free Checking (no fees!) & 
eCredit that are easy to access and manage online . 
Plus, you can tak e your account with you after college 
and k eep your ﬁnances running smoothly , no matter 
where you go .
Visit us 
Visit us online or in your local branch to ﬁnd out how 
Florida Credit Union can help you! 
Keeping up with you
and your ﬁnances. 
4 Gainesville Branches     
Federally insured by the NCU A. 
22   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Besides being home to one of the big -
gest universities in the country, Gainesville 
is also bursting at the seams with live mu -
sic venues that hold concerts every week. 
Whether you like indie, punk rock, hip-hop 
or anything in between, there’s no doubt a 
place for you somewhere in the city. Here’s 
a quick guide to some of the most popular 
venues Gainesville has to offer. 
The Florida Theater
Located at 233 W. University Ave., The 
Florida Theater brings lots of talent just a few 
blocks away from campus. As of late, this 
venue brings mostly electronic performers 
— artists like Tchami, Eptic, Herobust and 
more have made appearances in the past. 
Beyond that, this venue is able to support 
more popular artists, because it has a capac -
ity of more than 1,000 people. This location 
is definitely one to watch for the electronic 
fans and fans of nationally known artists. 
High Dive
As one of the oldest and most recogniz -
able venues in Gainesville, High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave., is definitely a loca -
tion to watch for music fans across the board. 
Bands that have gone on to achieve interna -
tional fame like Dave Matthews Band, Green 
Day, Against Me!, 311 and more have brought 
their talents to this venue. Along with these 
big names, the venue supports local talent and 
Florida favorites, bringing artists from genres 
like punk rock, alternative, hip-hop, rock, in -
die, rap, electronic and more to perform at 
concerts held multiple nights a week. High 
Dive is also home to the Original Gainesville 
Food Truck Rally, an event held roughly once 
a month that brings food, vendors, live music and more together, all for free. 
Heartwood Soundstage
Heartwood Soundstage is Gainesville’s 
newest and arguably most unique live mu -
sic venue. Located at 619 S. Main St., the 
venue serves as both a recording studio and 
outdoor concert venue. Attendees can watch 
live recordings take place in the more inti -
mate indoor setting and enjoy a natural en -
vironment at the outdoor stage. This venue 
has already hosted some exciting artists and 
will be hosting rising band Hundred Waters 
in August. Fans of indie, electronic and other 
experimental types of music should definite -
ly keep an eye on this one. 
The Atlantic
The Atlantic, located at 15 N. Main St., 
is another historic Gainesville venue that re -
cently underwent an extensive renovation. 
The unique thing about this venue is that it 
consistently teams up with the arcade bar at -
tached to it, hosting events in both spaces as 
well as in “The Alley,” the patio space that 
connects the two. The three spaces recently 
started Fever Pitch Thursdays, a Thursday 
night event that features DJs, live artists and 
other mixed media. This three-in-one venue 
brings experimental indie, electronic and 
punk artists, and it consistently partners with 
The Wooly, another venue located across the 
street, to bring live music to Gainesville. 
Realm
Realm, formerly known as Gallery and 
located at 233 W. University Ave., is an -
other fairly new venue to the Gainesville 
scene. This intimate location lets attendees 
get up close and personal with the perform -
ers, bringing high quality lights, sound and 
atmosphere with its recent renovation. This venue works extensively with Over Easy Cre -
ative, a production company in Gainesville 
that brings local, experimental electronic 
music to Gainesville on a weekly basis. 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza
The recently renovated Bo Diddley Com -
munity Plaza, located at 111 E. University 
Ave., is the go-to place for free concerts in a 
natural setting. This massive outdoor venue 
is known for its Free Fridays Concert Series, as well as the Union Street Farmers Market, 
held every Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
This venue brings bands of all kinds for a 
more family friendly environment. 
Although these are some of the most no -
table venues in Gainesville, there’s plenty of 
other places to catch live music such as The 
Wooly, Hardback Café, Boca Fiesta Backyard 
and many more. Altogether, the extensive 
amount of concert venues in Gainesville is 
part of what makes the city so diverse.The best places to listen to live music in Gainesville
Robert Carroll / Alligator Staff
Downtown Gainesville offers a variety of live-music venues, as well as places to grab 
a bite to eat or cup of coffee. 
Zip Oil Change for $25 (most cars)
License: MV97269         2290 NE 1st Blvd, Gainesville, FLWe’re committed to 
affordable complete auto repair and to serving you with honesty, quality, and value. 
• Authorized Falken Tire Distributor• We use Valvoline Oil• Directly across from P&J Marine• ASE Certified Mechanics• Free Shuttle Service• Free Wi-Fi
St. Patrick Catholic Church
500 NE 16th Ave
(352) 372-4641
spc@saintpatricksparish.orgMass Schedule
Saturday: 5:30 p.m. Vigil
Sunday: 8:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.
Weekdays: Mon - Thur 8 a.m.,  
Fri 8:30 a.m.
Holy Days: 8:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m., 7 p.m.
Korean Mass: Saturday 7 p.m. 
Reconciliation: Saturday 4 - 5 p.m.
Where Everyone Is Welcome
St. Patrick Thrift Shop
2010 NW 6th St  •  (352) 373-2206
Mon-Sat 9 a.m – 3 p.m.
Donations greatly appreciated. 
Thank you
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-14-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings10 For Sale12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. 
W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. Pool, clubhouse. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-14-17-2-2
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT OR ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified24   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       8-23-17-4-14The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Rifle range
rounds
5 Rainfall measure
9 Transitional state
14 Bread buy
15 NYC area above
Houston Street
16 Hunter
constellation
17 *Half a
percussion pair
19 “__ bleu!”
20 From India, say21 Civil uprising23 Account exec24 *Fill-in-the-blanks
agreement, e.g.
28 Post-WWII
feminine flier
31 Small swallow32 __ bubbles33 Bigheadedness34 *Cake soaked in
alcoholic syrup
39 Cake pan
trademark
42 Zilch43 Africa’s Sierra __44 *Brand for bubble
blowers
47 Trivial point48 Yet again49 High-arcing
tennis shot
51 Purported UFO
fliers
52 *Security device
that may be silent
57 Opposite of
WNW
58 __ about: roughly59 Soothed63 Golf analyst Nick65 Wander
aimlessly ... anda hint to a dividedword in theanswers tostarred clues
68 Get ready to
compete,bodybuilder-style
69 Parting words?70 Actress Hayworth71 Crisscross
frameworks
72 London gallery73 __-bitsy
DOWN
1 Actress Jessica2 Cattle chorus3 Salon service
with a pedi4 Gift __:
chattiness
5 Hoosier St.
6 Here-there link7 Butter-making
device
8 Bro9 One in need of
spiritual guidance
10 Gershwin brother11 Emcee’s need12 Destructive
insect
13 Hr. after noon18 Burden22 Mount of Greek
myth
25 Bro, to a sis26 “Brusha, brusha,
brusha”toothpaste
27 Cab ride price28 Jack of “Dragnet”29 Water, to Juan30 Full last name of
a “Happy Days”cool dude
35 Gargantuan36 __ in the
conversation
37 Self-storage
compartment
38 Citi Field team40 Doorbell sound41 Figure skating
jumps45 Nine-time U.S.
skating champ
Michelle
46 Extinct emu-like
bird
50 Uncle Remus
rabbit’s title
52 Confuse53 TWA competitor54 Many a modern
assembly-lineworker55 Caribbean resort
isle
56 New Zealand
settler
60 Hearts or clubs61 Sinus docs62 WWII turning
point
64 Defective
firecracker
66 Cambridge univ.67 Munched on
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
(c)2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/14/1708/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, August 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ACROSS
1 Enjoy deeply
6 Verne voyager
10 Campus
hangout
14 “Things are never
quite as scary
when you’ve got
__ friend”: Bill
Watterson
15 Old Roman poet16 “Once more __
the breach”:Shak.
17 Why St. Peter
owns darningneedles?
20 Actor Idris __21 “Take this”
22 Naturally lit
indoor spaces
23 CV inclusion
24 Not as good-
looking?
25 Minimalist
beachwear
26 “Ah, Wilderness!”
mother
28 Future D.A.’s
hurdle
30 Fresno-to-L.A.
dir.
31 Museum of
Home Securityexhibits?
35 Peanut product36 Fraser or
Douglas
37 What a
shepherd seesafter asnowstorm?
44 Appreciative cry46 Sol preceder47 “Not possible”
48 Frigga portrayer
in “Thor”
51 Prefix in makeup
product names
53 Feel sorry about
54 Perfumer’s
ingredient
55 Red-coated
security force:Abbr.
56 Diplomacy 
result
57 Consumer
reactions to bigprice hikes forbrownies?
60 Pointer’s cry61 O or Jay62 Author Calvino63 Coastal raptors64 Cutlass, e.g.65 City on the RuhrDOWN
1 It’s in the bag2 Void
3 Like a motormouth
4 Org. concerned
with ladder safety
5 GPS datum6 “An ill-defined
and disreputableliterary bananarepublic”:Stephen King
7 High point of
Hillary’s career
8 __ spring
9 “__ bodkins!”: old
oath
10 “The Raven” verb
11 Straighten, as
one’s legs
12 Diet doctor13 Pharmacist’s
concern
18 “Now it’s clear!”19 Didn’t rise24 Dental procedure,
for short
27 Composer
Stravinsky
29 Devonshire dandy32 “Born Free”
lioness
33 Paramecium
movers
34 McDonald’s
founder37 Bit of suspended
decoration
38 Controversial
political
cartoonist
39 Put up40 Projecting
architecturalfeatures
41 Capital NE of
Bogotá
42 Get to work, with
“down”43 Big hat
44 Ancient prophet
45 Comics villain
since 1940
49 Gives the 
heave-ho
50 Conquistador’s
treasure
52 Speed meas.
56 “Chopped” array
58 Southeast Asian
tongue
59 Move it, quaintly
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/04/1708/04/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 4, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedMONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   25 
After 2 pm weekdays, weekends if free. for 
3 kids age 8-14. To help pick kids up from school and drive to activities (must have car), light help around the house.$12/hr, experi -
ence/references required.Email to rosenson@ufl.edu.     8-23-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
"The Spiritual Purpose of Dreams" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., Aug. 20     
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
Everyone welcome
8-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1.  ____ Circle
1.  Canopy5.  Bump, elbow
2.  Showy solo passage6.  Famous, eminent
3.  Sluggishness7.  Abandon
4.  Pasta ____CRTIAC
NWGNIANGDEU
DETNO
ACDAENZ
TAREINICAETVA
LENODOANSWERS: 1A-Arctic  5A-Nudge  6A-Noted  7A-Vacate
1D-Awning  2D-Cadenza  3D-Inertia  4D-Noodle  B-Indian Ocean8-14-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The third-largest of its kind.
BONUS207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
1. Name the last major-league team 
to win at least 20 consecutive games 
in a season.
2. Which Baltimore Orioles pitcher 
in the 1960s tossed shutouts in his first two major-league starts?
3. Which team ended the NFC’s run 
of 13 consecutive Super Bowl victo-ries?
4. When was the last time before the 
2016-17 season that Valparaiso had a men’s basketball coach who did not have the last name of Drew.
5. Name the last No. 1 seed in the 
NHL playoffs before Chicago in 2017 to be eliminated in the first round.
6. Who was the last American male 
boxer before Shakur Stevenson in 2016 to win a gold or silver medal at the Olympics?
7. In 2017, Justin Thomas recorded 
the lowest-ever score for a 72-hole PGA event (253). Who had held the record for the lowest score?
Answers
1. Oakland won 20 in a row in 2002.2. Tom Phoebus, in 1966.3. Denver, in Super Bowl XXXII 
after the 1997 NFL season.
4. It was the 1987-88 season.5. The Vancouver Canucks, in 2012.6. Andre Ward won a gold medal in 
2004.
7. Tommy Armour III shot 254 in a 
tournament in 2003.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 14, 2017King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
Several UF sports set to kick off Fall seasons
Five of UF’s varsity sports teams are ready to kick off their regular seasons 
over the next month. Soccer begins on Aug. 18, Volleyball begins on Aug. 25, 
Football begins on Sept. 2, Women’s Golf begins on Sept. 4 and Men’s Golf 
begins on Sept. 8.How did UF’s sports team fare 
under new athletic director 
Scott Stricklin  last season? 
Find out in our 2016-17 year in 
review. Read on Pg. 27NEW STUDENT EDITION
MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Only a few weeks remain until Florida kicks 
off the 2017 regular season against Michigan 
at AT&T Stadium. The Gators enter this year 
as back-to-back SEC East champions, notching 
13 conference wins under coach Jim McElwain 
since he took over the program in 2015. As al -
ways, UF’s success on the gridiron this fall will 
largely depend on its roster, a group of players 
featuring both seasoned veterans and unestab -
lished newcomers. Here is the position preview 
for players set to play quarterback at Florida 
this year:
Players:  Jake Allen (Fr.), Luke Del Rio (R-
Jr.), Feleipe Franks (R-Fr.), Jack Ruskell (Fr.), 
Nick Sproles (R-Fr.), Kadarius Toney (Fr.), 
Kyle Trask (R-Fr.), Malik Zaire (Gr.)
Things appeared pretty likely this spring 
that redshirt freshman Feleipe Franks would 
get the starting nod for the Gators on Sept. 2 
against Michigan.
He played with the first-team offense dur -
ing UF’s Orange and Blue Debut on April 7 and 
thoroughly outdueled fellow signal caller Kyle 
Trask, completing 8-of-14 passes for 119 yards, 
one touchdown and zero interceptions.
Coach McElwain declared Franks “ahead” of the competition following the performance, 
leading many to believe the 6-foot-6, Craw -
fordville, Florida, native had the job firmly 
secured.
However, with the transfer of former Notre 
Dame quarterback Malik Zaire this summer, 
the race for the position is back up for grabs.
Zaire comes to Gainesville with three starts 
and 17 career appearances under his belt as 
a member of the Fighting Irish. He completed 
58-of-98 passes for 816 yards, six touchdowns 
and zero interceptions over his three seasons 
in South Bend.
Zaire can make plays with his legs as well, 
recording 324 yards and two touchdowns on 
72 rushing attempts at Notre Dame, good for 
an average of 4.5 yards per carry.
He and Franks sit as the two frontrunners 
for the job, but there are several other Gators 
who could potentially see time as well.
Redshirt junior Luke Del Rio started six 
games last year and threw for 1,358 yards be -
fore injuries forced him to end his season early.
The aforementioned Trask started with the 
second-team offense during UF’s spring game 
and completed 6-of-15 passes for 66 yards, 
zero touchdowns and one interception.
Freshman Kadarius Toney showed fans this 
spring why he’s listed on Florida’s official ros -
ter as an “athlete,” rushing for 74 yards on five 2017 Florida Gators Position Preview: Quarterback
SOCCER
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Any team that returns over 70 percent of the 
previous year’s starters is expected to perform 
well right from the get-go.
For the Gators soccer team, that means 2017 
is full of high expectations. 
Florida begins the fall tabbed No. 7 in the 
United Soccer Coaches Preseason Rankings, 
marking its sixth consecutive appearance in the 
poll’s top 10.
The hype surrounding UF stems from last 
season’s berth in the Sweet 16 and an overall 
record of 17-5-1. The Gators finished the regular 
season on a tear, dropping only one match in 
their final eight contests.
In the SEC Tournament, Florida ran into 
staunch resistance. It had its hands full with 
Missouri, playing into double overtime before 
eventually winning in a penalty shootout. Bouts 
against South Carolina and Arkansas ended 
with Gator victories by one goal apiece.
They then appeared to regain some of their 
regular season mojo in the NCAA Tournament 
after scoring three goals against both Florida 
Gulf Coast and Wisconsin. However, a 3-1 loss 
to Auburn in the tournament’s third round put 
Florida’s title hopes to bed.
“Sometimes, soccer is a funny game,” coach UF soccer ready to make noise in 2017  
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
A loss in the second round 
of the 2016 NCAA tournament 
stunned Gators fan around the 
country. The loss being at the 
hands of in-state rival FSU only 
made things worse.
Now, Florida’s volleyball team 
is looking to rebound and bring 
its first national championship in 
program history to Gainesville.
With six seniors on the roster, 
the time is now for UF to make a 
deep run in the postseason.
Three-time All-American Rha -
mat Alhassan will dress in orange 
and blue for the final time this 
year, as well as 2016 All-SEC out -
side hitter Carli Snyder and libero 
Caroline Knop. All three players 
were crucial pieces for the Gators 
last season when they went 27-4 
and captured a share of the SEC 
title.
But that record wasn’t only 
due to the talent of those three players. Setter Allie Monserez 
also returns to the team after 
leading the nation in assists per 
set last season. The redshirt ju -
nior became the first Gator to ac -
complish the feat in team history 
and only the second player in 
SEC history as well (Molly Krek -
low, Missouri, 2013).
Head coach Mary Wise will 
take her place on the Florida’s 
sideline for the 27th consecutive 
year. Wise comes in as the 10th 
winningest coach in Division I 
history and cracks the top 10 in 
all-time win percentage as well. 
Since she came to Florida in 
1991, the Gators have been to the 
NCAA Tournament every season 
and have eclipsed 25 wins over 
those years as well. In addition to 
the 26-year streak on the line this 
season, the Gators will also look 
to add to their 22 SEC titles.
In order to do that, they will 
have to take on every SEC pro -
gram twice this year, once on the Florida volleyball ready 
for a successful season
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida’s soccer team takes the field prior to its 5-2 win against 
Iowa State on Aug. 19, 2016, at James G. Pressly Stadium.The Associated Press
Malik Zaire attempts a pass during Notre Dame’s 38-3 win against T exas on Sept. 5, 
2015, at Notre Dame Stadium.
VOLLEYBALL
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 29SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 29
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 29NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   27 
Staff Report
Hello freshman. As you get adjust -
ed to your new life here in Gainesville 
and prepare for the upcoming 2017-18 
NCAA athletics season, let’s look back 
at how UF’s sports teams fared one year 
ago.
The Gators competed in 21 Division 
I varsity sports throughout the fall, 
spring and summer, racking in eight 
regular season and postseason confer -
ence championships as well as three 
national championships in baseball, 
women’s tennis and men’s outdoor 
track and field.
Last year’s NCAA title victories in -
creased Florida’s all-time national 
championships up to 39 across 14 dif -
ferent sports in the program’s history. 
Women’s tennis has the most with 
seven, while men’s golf, gymnastics 
and men’s outdoor track and field each 
have four.
UF also entered exclusive company 
last season as one of only four schools 
in NCAA history to hold a title in foot -
ball, men’s basketball and baseball, 
joining Ohio State, Michigan and UCLA.
Aside from its three national champi -
onships in 2016-17, the Gators also saw 
deep postseason runs from the men’s 
basketball team, women’s golf team, 2016-17 Florida Gators Year in Review
SEE REVIEW,  PAGE 31Soccer
Finished Third in SEC Regular Season Standings, 
Won SEC T ournament Championship, 
Lost in NCAA T ournament Third RoundLacrosse
Won Big East Regular Season Championship, 
Won Big East T ournament Championship,
Lost in NCAA T ournament Second Round2016-2017 Women’s Sports Review 
Women’s Basketball
Finished 12th in SEC Regular Season Standings, 
Lost in SEC T ournament Second Round, 
Missed NCAA T ournamentWomen’s Cross Country
Finished Eighth in SEC Championship, 
Finished Sixth in NCAA South Regional Championship
Women’s Golf
Won SEC Championship, 
Lost in NCAA Championship QuarterfinalsGymnastics
Finished Second in SEC Championship, 
Finished Third in NCAA Championship Super Six
Softball
Won SEC Regular Season Championship, 
Lost in SEC T ournament Quarterfinals, 
Lost in NCAA T ournament Women’s 
College World Series FinalsWomen’s Swimming & Diving
Finished Seventh in SEC Championship, 
Finished 50th in NCAA Championship
Women’s T ennis
Finished Second in SEC Regular Season Standings, 
Lost in SEC T ournament Finals, 
Won NCAA T ournament ChampionshipWomen’s Indoor Track & Field
Finished Eighth in SEC Championship, 
Finished 14th in NCAA ChampionshipWomen’s Outdoor Track & Field
Finished Fifth in SEC Championship, 
Finished Fifth in NCAA Championship
Volleyball
Won SEC Regular Season Championship, 
Lost in NCAA T ournament Second Round
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.net
The Amish Store
of  Newberry
$2 off
any Amish Dutch Kettle Brand 
Jelly & JamsOPEN Tuesday - Saturday 10-5
352-354-8038
352-472-2257Cheese • Farm Fresh Eggs • Roll Buter 
• Jams • Jelly • Fresh Local Honey • Pie 
Filling • Sausage • Jerky & more!
25933 W. Newberry Rd., Newberry, FL
SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
Look Where You’re Going! 
Don’t T ext & Ride! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
28   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   29 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise speaks with her players during Florida’s 3-0 win 
against Mississippi State on Oct. 21, 2016, at the Lemerand 
Athletic Center.
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg 26 SOCCER,  from pg 26 FOOTBALL,  from pg 26
carries as an early enrollee dur -
ing the Orange and Blue Debut.
And freshman Jake Allen, a 
6-foot-4, four-star pocket passer 
from Saint Thomas Aquinas 
High School in Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, recently arrived on 
campus in June.
Predicted Starter:  Zaire
Despite only just transferring 
to Florida this summer, expect 
Zaire to win the starting job. 
He’s one of only two quarter -
backs on the Gators’ roster with 
actual experience in a Division I 
college football game, and he’s 
shown passion and leadership 
qualities that set him apart from 
the rest of the competition.
Just ask McElwain, who said 
UF’s recent graduate transfer is 
“on a mission” to make an im -
pact for the team this season.
“He’s done a great job of get -
ting along with and introducing 
himself and bringing a certain 
energy and understanding of 
what it takes,” Florida’s head 
coach said. “He’s here to help 
us win a bunch of games.”
Franks should still be viewed 
as a potential quarterback of the 
future for the Gators as only a 
redshirt freshman, but expect 
2017 to be Zaire’s year.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgBecky Burleigh said after her team’s loss 
in the Sweet 16. “Our team just laid it on 
the field. There were no regrets out there. 
I think as a coach, that's all you can ask.”
Florida lost its two top scorers in Savan -
nah Jordan and Meggie Dougherty How -
ard to graduation coming into this season. 
The pair combined for 24 of UF’s 55 goals 
last year. Juniors Melanie Monteagudo and 
Mayra Pelayo will be called upon to step 
into the roles of primary goal-scorers, hav -
ing put home eight and four, respectively, 
last season.
Incoming freshman Deanne Rose is 
also expected to play significant minutes. 
The Canadian national team forward 
made headlines last summer during the 
Rio Olympic Games when she became the 
youngest woman to ever score an Olympic 
goal at age 17. She scored that goal and 
added an assist in Canada’s bronze medal 
win against Brazil.
The Gators’ schedule may be one of the 
toughest in the country. After opening the 
year against FAU on Aug. 18, UF plays four 
teams ranked in the preseason top-25: No. 
2 Stanford, No. 4 South Carolina and No. 
15 FSU at home, and No. 10 Auburn on 
the road.
But with the talent on the Gators roster 
in 2017, this season has potential to be a 
major success. Just ask Dougherty Howard.
“Their future is immensely bright,” 
Dougherty Howard said after the loss to 
Auburn last year. “I'm excited to see where 
they go from here because there is a really 
good group of girls left.” 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgroad and once at home in the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center. 
UF was forced to play at the 
Lemerand Athletic Center - its 
usual practice facility - last 
year while the O’Connell cen -
ter underwent renovations.
But now, with those reno -
vations completed last Decem -
ber, the Gators are ready to 
return to their home arena and 
kick off the 2017 season.
To start off the year, Flor -
ida will host the VERT Chal -
lenge on Aug. 25 and Aug. 26 
against Texas and Nebraska.
In last fall’s VERT Chal -
lenge in Eugene, Oregon, Flor -
ida fell to No. 1 Nebraska, 3-1, 
before winning its following 
12 consecutive contests.
The Gators hope to get off 
to a similar start once again 
this fall. Aside from the Long -
horns and Cornhuskers, Flor -
ida will also face North Caro -
lina, Michigan State and FSU 
in its nonconference season 
before beginning SEC play.
While the schedule may 
look tough, with the talent on 
UF’s roster this season, expect 
a team ready to make another 
deep run in the NCAA Tourna -
ment.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org30   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
LOOKING FORWARD TO A NEW YEAR  
AND A GREATER TOMORROW AT UF.
You’ve chosen an exciting time to call the 
University of Florida home. We unite the brightest minds to create solutions for some of the greatest challenges facing the world. Because the Gator Good isn’t about a single issue or a single person. It’s about the power  of all of us making a difference together.
For the #GATORGOOD
Welcome Home
Gators
NEW STUDENT EDITION • MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   31 
REVIEW,  from pg 27 2016-2017 Men’s Sports Review 
Baseball
Won SEC Regular Season Championship,
Lost in SEC T ournament Semifinals,
Won NCAA T ournament ChampionshipMen’s T ennis
Finished Third in SEC Regular Season Standings, 
Lost in SEC T ournament Semifinals, 
Lost in NCAA T ournament Third RoundMen’s Basketball
Finished Second in SEC Regular Season Standings, 
Lost in SEC T ournament Quarterfinals,
Lost in NCAA T ournament Elite Eight
Men’s Cross Country
Finished Eighth in SEC Championship, 
Finished Eighth in NCAA South Regional ChampionshipMen’s Swimming & Diving
Won SEC Championship, 
Finished Third in NCAA ChampionshipMen’s Indoor Track & Field
Finished Third in SEC Championship, 
Finished Second in NCAA ChampionshipMen’s Outdoor Track & Field
Finished Fourth in SEC Championship, 
Won NCAA Championship
Football
Won SEC East Regular Season Championship, 
Lost in SEC Championship Game, 
Won Outback Bowl
Men’s Golf
Lost in SEC Championship Semifinals, 
Finished Eighth in NCAA Championship Regionalsgymnastics team, softball team, 
men’s swimming and diving team 
and men’s indoor track and field 
team.
On the gridiron, the football 
team reached the SEC Champion -
ship Game for the second consecu -
tive year, and other sports like men’s 
golf, lacrosse, soccer and volleyball 
had respectable campaigns as well.
“It has been another terrific year 
in Gator Athletics,” athletic director 
Scott Stricklin said in a release on 
June 22. “There has been a lot of fun 
packed into a short period of time, 
and that fun is directly attributable 
to our remarkable student-athletes, 
coaches, staff and fans.”
UF’s wide-spread success last 
season culminated in a third place 
finish in the Learfield Sports Direc -
tors’ Cup standings, marking Flori -
da’s ninth consecutive top-five finish 
in the national all-sports rankings. 
Only Stanford and Ohio State’s ath -
letic programs had a better year than 
the Gators did in 2016-17. Here is the 
full recap of how each varsity sport 
finished:
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK song
Saltwater Fish
Locally Grown Coral
T ank Maintenance & Rentals
New and Used T anks For Sale
“Gainesville’s premiere 
aquatics store”
125 NW 23rd Ave #3
(352) 519-1936
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
August 26, 2017
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
STUDENT RESOURCES FOR :
                                     /uni2219 W ellness C oaching     
/uni2219 HIV T esting
/uni2219 Quitting T obacco
/uni2219 Health P resentations & T abling
/uni2219 Educational C onsultations on a variety of healthy topics 
relevant to college students.
FIND US:
GatorWell is all over campus ! 
Visit our website to ﬁnd a location near you, to explor e relevant 
health info, and to mak e an appointment for one of our ser vices !
gatorwell.ufsa.uﬂ.edu /uni2219
 352- 273-4450
We Are Wher e You Are.
YOUR CAMPUS RESOURCE FOR CREDIBLE HEAL TH INFORMA TION.
32   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$3.99   
½ Pound Burger
$5 All  
Craft Pints7 pm – 12am
2-4-1 Appetizers 
2-4-1 Classic 
Daiquiri’s  
(Fresh not Frozen)
Trivia 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$5 Flat Breads 
(Margherita or Buffalo Chicken)
$2 Premium 
Wells
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ 
Cheese
(Buffalo Chicken or  
BBQ Pulled Pork)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail 
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseHAPPY HOUR
ALL DAY ON SUNDAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Premium 
Wells
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 Stoli Mules
$4 Edamame 
$4 Swamp 
Head & First 
Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
BURGER NIGHT2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
BLOW-OUT
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm