We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Lorenzen leads Gators to home win
Forward Haley Lorenzen scored 20 points in 
UF’s win over Jacksonville, pg. 14.Bees?
The UF Bee College event has moved from St. Augustine to Gainesville,  pg. 4.
Students subvert ‘Pie a Conservative’ event
Young Americans for Freedom raised money for a speaker,  pg. 5.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 39
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Vincent McDonald
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce deputies in civilian clothes will visit East Gainesville on Saturday to attend a car-nival complete with a bounce house, a three-legged race and snowman-themed games.
The second annual Holiday T.I.E.’s Carni-
val, hosted by the Transform, Invest, Engage Community Initiative, is from noon to 4 p.m. at the Southeast Rotary Boys & Girls Club, located at 1100 SE 17th Drive. The event is meant to humanize police and the commu-nity they work for, said Jireh Davis, the orga-
nization’s founder and a UF political science 
and African-American studies junior. 
“The purpose is basically to transform 
the relationship between the community and the police, invest time in those relation-ships and engage in fun and carefree events so that those relationships can be fostered,” she said.
The carnival is free and open to everyone. 
The restaurant Celebrity’s Soul Food will cater the carnival and UF organizations, in-cluding the Black Student Union and Fresh-man Leadership Council, will bring games, 
Davis said.
Davis, 20, felt tired of talk about conﬂ  icts 
between police and residents and created the 
initiative to put her feelings into action, she said. 
“It’s for kids to maybe look up at a police 
ofﬁ  cer and not be afraid of them or not be nervous about them being there, but be able to say, ‘Hey, maybe I want to be one of those one day,’” she said.
Aleyna Ross, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, is a member of the T.I.E. Com-munity Initiative and said the carnival helps 
children build a relationship with police ear-
ly on, she said.
“It’s allowing the children to learn that 
not all police are bad,” she said. 
Davis said she feels a duty toward 
Gainesville despite being an out-of-state stu-dent from Arlington, Texas.
“I couldn’t imagine coming to the Univer-
sity of Florida and just taking an education and running away,” she said. “Giving back is what I love to do.”
UF students to host carnival for better police relationsShelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff 
CHRISTMAS CAROLS 
Stephanie Espie, a 23-year-old ethnomusicology graduate student, plays the bass pans at the UF Steel Band’s Christmas concert outside of Century T ower on Tuesday. 
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
In front of a crowd of about 100, UF 
President Kent Fuchs said this semester 
has been the most unique he’s seen in 
his time in higher education. 
“This has been a semester of exter-
nal threats,” he said. 
At a town hall hosted by the UF 
Black Student Affairs Task Force on 
Tuesday in the Reitz Union Rion Ball-
room, Fuchs discussed the many threats UF has faced in Fall. He referenced the 
executive order ending the Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals program and the affected students, the arrival of 
white supremacist Richard Spencer on 
campus on Oct. 19 and Hurricane Irma. 
The town hall included a panel of 
members of the president’s cabinet, including Fuchs, Vice President for Student Affairs Dave Parrott, Interim 
Director of Freshman and International 
Admissions Chandra Mitchell and Vice President for Human Resources Jodi 
Gentry. Fuchs described the town hall as an 
opportunity to make UF stronger by be-
ing more inclusive. 
At the event, Multicultural and Di-
versity Affairs Director Will Atkins dis-cussed the state of the Black Student Af-fairs Task Force and MCDA as a whole. 
Atkins said the task force is work-
ing toward creating a website focused on inclusion opportunities at UF, which 
he said will launch in coming months. 
After Gentry discussed UF’s work to 
hire its ﬁ  rst chief diversity ofﬁ  cer and its efforts to create a department assess-
ment on inclusive behaviors, students had the chance to ask the panel ques-
tions. 
Camille Okonkwo, a 20-year-old UF 
business administration sophomore, spoke about wanting to increase the mi-
nority student populations at UF. Mitch-ell responded by saying the admissions 
ofﬁ  ce received more total applications 
than in prior years, and they received 500 more applications from African 
American students than last year. President Fuchs addresses 
racial climate on campus
SEE FORUM,  PAGE 3By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Christian Suarez said if his family had ac-
cess to birth control years ago, things would’ve 
been different.
“In my family, I’ve had a lot of unplanned 
pregnancies,” the 22-year-old said. “If they had access to that, maybe they would’ve been able 
to plan better and maybe affected their lives positively going forward.” 
On Tuesday in front of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-dium, the Keep Birth Control Copay Free Cam-
paign brought the “Mission Control” bus to get 
people to sign petitions, which were designed like an invoice. The invoices, which gave the 
average cost for contraceptives — about $1,547 
annually — were immediately emailed to Pres-ident Donald Trump’s administration. 
Suarez said the least he could do was sign 
it.
“It’s no secret, college students have sex 
all the time, so if they have access to this, it’ll prevent unplanned pregnancies and bring chil-dren into this world in better situations,” Su-
arez, a UF economics senior, said. 
The traveling bus lets people know about 
the new birth control mandate declared in Oc-tober, said Jae Davis, the tour manager for the 
campaign. The new mandate will overturn the provision in the Affordable Care Act, common-
ly called “Obamacare,” and give employers the 
choice to stop covering the cost of birth control based on moral or religious reasons, according 
to Politico.
Davis said 296 people signed the invoices. “It’s gained a lot of traction,” Davis said. “A 
lot of students and professors that didn’t know 
this law was going to take effect in the upcom-ing weeks, they are now aware of it and are 
happy that we’re on campus.”
Davis said they are traveling to different 
universities to make students aware of the pos-sible changes to birth control policy.
“By this law changing and the price of birth 
control actually going up, some students and Birth control bus promoting aﬀ  ordability stops by UF 
SEE BIRTH CONTROL,  PAGE 3
cater the carnival and UF organizations, in-
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
HIGH  79° LOW  55°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Library Curators Architecture 
Discussion 
On Wednesday two Smathers Libraries curators will discuss architecture in Smathers Library 
East, Room 100. John Nemmers 
will introduce the architecture archives, and Peggy McBride will discuss the campus gothic archi-tectural style, providing examples from historic buildings on UF’s campus. Lunch will be served at 11:30 a.m., with presentations from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Kid-Free Camp for Grown-Ups
The Florida Museum is hosting an adults-only evening camp Wednesday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Activities include access to the museum’s permanent ex-hibits, arts, crafts and hands-on science activities. The camp is 
$25 for nonmembers or $20 for 
members. Pre-registration is re-quired, and participants must be 18 years or older. For more in-formation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/adult-camp or call 352-273-2061.
Agbedidi: A Fusion of Traditional 
African and Contemporary DanceAgbedidi: A Fusion of Traditional African and Contemporary Dance will once again grace the Constans Theatre stage, located east of the Reitz Union on UF’s campus. The concert will be held Friday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets cost 
$13 for students, $15 for UF fac-
ulty and staff and seniors and $18 for the general public. The concert presents traditional West African dance and contemporary dance by African-American cho-reographers.
Little Run on the Prairie 5K
The Alachua County 4-H is host-ing its annual The Little Run on the Prairie 5K on Saturday begin-ning at 8:30 a.m. It is a trail run through the historic and pristine Paynes Prairie. This community and family oriented event ben-
efits 4-H summer camp scholar-
ships for special interest, residen-tial and county day camps. To learn more about the race please go to active.com or our Facebook page, or contact Amanda Morgan at amorgan133@ufl.edu or 352-955-2402.
Craft Festival 2017
The O’Connell Center is host-ing its annual Craft Festival on Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Craft Festival showcases crafts authentically made by talented artisans and crafters. The Craft Festival pro-vides an opportunity to shop for 
unique merchandise and gifts 
and features hundreds of ven-dors. Tickets can be purchased in advance, costing $4 for the gen-eral public and $2 for students at the University Box Office at Gate 1 of the O’Connell Center, located at 250 Gale Lemerand Drive. Tickets cost $5 at the door 
for the general public and $3 for 
students. 
Swing Dance Club Winter Formal
The Florida Swing Dance Club is hosting its Winter formal on Saturday. Individuals of all dance levels can attend. Lessons start at 8 p.m. with a begin-ner lesson provided, so you can 
join the social dance right after. 
Entrance into the event will cost $5. The dance will be held in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. For more information about the event visit facebook.com/FloridaSwingDancingClub/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction
In an article titled “‘He was like a magnet’: a UF professor hon-
ored,” published on Monday, it 
was written that Richard Rose re-tired from UF. Rose did not retire, and the scholarship in his name was created after his passing. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 39
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Welcome BackADVERTISE WITH THE ALLIGATOR
352-376-4482  advertising@alligator.orgDEADLINE 12/13/2017  
RUN DATE 1/8/2018Contact Your  
Sales Rep T odayEDITION SPRING 2018
THE BILL REQUIRES SG TO SHARE 
AT LEAST FOUR SOCIAL MEDIA 
POSTS PROMOTING ELECTIONS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government senators unani-
mously passed a bill mandating SG to pro-
mote elections through social media.
During its meeting Tuesday, the Senate 
unanimously passed the Voter Information 
Act, a bill aiming to increase voter turnout 
during SG election, which was about 16 per-cent this Fall.The bill, which passed the judiciary com-
mittee Sunday, would require the Supervi-sor of Elections to draft social media posts and send them to the Action SG chairperson for posting.
At least one post will promote the dates, 
times and polling locations for each election once details are ﬁ  nalized, and at least one other post will publicize the elections when 
polls open. At least two additional social 
media posts will advertise the absentee bal-lot deadlines, according to the bill. 
The bill would require all posts to include 
the candidates’ names, and all ofﬁ  cial SG so-cial media accounts must share the posts. 
UF student Zachary Amrose, Sen. Mi-chael Hoffman (Inspire, Hume) and Sen. Caleb Coppock (Impact, Graduate) authored the bill in a bipartisan effort. 
Amrose, a UF political science sopho-
more, said he thought of writing a bill when he saw SG only posted on social media once during the Fall elections. 
“Although this is a very positive step, the 
bill is an incomplete Band-Aid until online 
voting happens,” Amrose said. 
At the meeting Tuesday, Sen. Zarella Ber-
rocal (Inspire, District D) announced she’s 
planning to draft a bill that would revise the SG codes in order to fund feminine hygiene products on campus. 
Berrocal wants to remove a phrase that restricts SG from funding “personal consum-able products.” When asked why SG is able to fund condoms but not tampons, Berrocal said she was unsure.
Berrocal said Chase Werther, a UF phi-
losophy junior, started the initiative Gators Matter, Period. Werther spoke to compa-nies and calculated the cost would be about $2,000, Berrocal said. 
“It should be bipartisan because it will 
affect all students — not just some,” Berro-cal said. “It’s money, time and comfort for students.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
SG Senate approves bill aimed to increase voter turnout
Ernesto Godinez, a 20-year-old UF Afri-
can American studies junior, asked Fuchs 
what UF should do to move past recent 
events that have put racial issues on the forefront, he said. 
“I pray it doesn’t come — no more ﬂ  yers, 
no more nooses, no more uninvited speak-ers,”  Fuchs said. “But I think we should be 
prepared.”
Students also expressed their desire to 
bring in more minority faculty members, as UF dedicated to hire 500 new faculty mem-
bers in the next three years. 
Fuchs described the current demograph-
ics at UF as unacceptable. 
“We need to make progress,” Fuchs said. 
“Progress is hard, but we need to do it.” 
Godinez said he appreciated the oppor-
tunity to have an open conversation with 
administration at UF. 
“We have to go at them because they do 
want feedback, and they do want criticism so they can do their jobs better,” he said.  
@camille_respess
crepess@alligator.orgsome people may not have the funds to pay for birth control, which then could become 
an issue later on,” the 31-year-old said. 
In addition to signing invoices, the bus 
invited people to take photos and gave out free condoms, T-shirts, buttons and stick-ers. 
The bus was decorated like a dorm 
room to make it relatable to college stu-dents, Davis said. Davis said the bus has 
already traveled to 12 universities and 
plans to travel to more throughout central and south Florida. 
Gavin Miranda, a UF construction man-
agement sophomore, said contraception is not something taxpayers or healthcare or-ganizations need to be paying for. 
“That’s kind of like your car insurance 
company paying to get your car detailed every month,” the 20-year-old said. “That’s 
totally not what it’s supposed to be for.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgStudents expressed interest in diverse faculty UF is the 
13th stop FORUM,  from pg. 1
BIRTH CONTROL,  from pg. 1
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Akil Reynolds, a third-year public health student, asks UF President Kent Fuchs about a 
controversial article he retweeted in October at a town hall panel Tuesday.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
GUIDE TO 
  DINING 
OUT
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here •  352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 BREAKFAST
THE WINNER RECEIVED $100.
By Iesha Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
Before UF and Florida State University’s 
football teams went head-to-head Saturday, 
students from both schools challenged each 
other to a business competition.
The inaugural Turkey Tank Competition 
on Nov. 22 had students from UF and FSU 
compete for $100 by giving a 3 minute pitch about an entrepreneurial project without us-ing technology.
The competition was hosted by the UF 
Warrington College of Business. 
The winner  was Hannah King, an FSU 
international affairs junior. King said she felt amazing beating the competition.
King’s idea was a community development center, called Rise to Read, which would em-power people, promote sustainability and 
work to increase literacy in Léogâne, Haiti.
The Rise to Read project would include 
community service, a library pantry, and a 
tutoring system, she said.
“Ultimately, we’re just trying to revitalize 
the way that non-proﬁ  t organizations work,” 
the 20-year-old said. “We want them to be lo-
cally led in Haiti so the community’s needs 
can be understood by the people living in it.”
Parker Van Hart, the director of UF’s entre-
preneurship master’s program, said he came 
up with the idea for the competition with a 
director from FSU, Wendy Plant.
Although he was sad FSU beat UF the ﬁ  rst 
year of the competition, Van Hart said it was all in good fun.
“Next year, we’re going to go back and 
steal it from them.”FSU student wins UF’s inaugural 
entrepreneurship competition  
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
With an increase in the number of bee-
keepers across Florida, UF’s Bee College 
event announced changes to meet new de-
mands.
Mary Bammer, the extension coordina-
tor for UF’s Honey Bee Research & Exten-sion Lab, said Bee College, an educational 
event for people interested in beekeeping, 
has been held in St. Augustine for the last 
decade, but the event has outgrown the 
space.
The main location will now move to 
Gainesville, where there is space for more 
participants, she said. Bammer said hav-
ing the main event, which takes place in 
August, in Gainesville also helps with poor 
weather.She said it will likely take place in UF’s 
new Honey Bee Research & Extension Lab, 
due to open in June 2018.  
“It (would be) a shame not to use it for 
our biggest event,” Bammer said.
Bammer said she’s unsure what Bee 
College will cost in Gainesville because de-tails are being worked out. Generally, she 
said attendees pay $120 to $180, and host-
ing costs between $25,000 to $35,000. 
Susan Harris, a certiﬁ  ed master crafts-
man through the UF Master Beekeeper Pro-gram, said she’s attended the Bee College 
program eight times.
Harris wrote in an email that working 
with bees in person is the best way to learn.
“You can read about beekeeping, but 
that’s not the same as staring into a bee-hive with 30,000 bees looking back at you,” she wrote.UF’s Bee College event 
changes location to GainesvilleWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
While a conservative UF student 
organization fundraised using pies 
on one end of Turlington Plaza, 
about four students stood on the 
other end and protested by selling hot chocolate to raise money for Planned Parenthood. 
Both fundraisers took place on 
Tuesday afternoon. Young Ameri-cans for Freedom organized the “Pie a Conservative” event to pay for a male speaker’s visit to cam-pus next Spring, said Victor Santos, the group’s secretary, declining to name the speaker until his visit is 
confirmed. They charged $2 to pie anyone and $5 to pie their club’s president, Daniel Weldon. The club 
raised $20 for the speaker, Weldon 
said.
According to Alligator archives, 
the conservative group fundraised to bring former U.S. Treasurer An-
gela “Bay” Buchanan in November and Ben Shapiro, a conservative political commentator, in Spring.
As soon as she saw the conser-
vative event promoted on Face-book on Thursday, Sophia Ahmed said she knew she had to protest it. She and Jessica Terkovich, a 20-year-old criminology sopho-more, recruited a few friends, and they charged $1 per hot chocolate. 
Their group raised $95 for Planned Parenthood, Ahmed said.
Ahmed, a UF materials science 
and engineering sophomore, said she is against Young Americans 
for Freedom because some of the viewpoints she feels they promote 
— particularly their anti-abortion 
and anti-transgender views — go against her personal beliefs.
“(Young Americans for Free-
dom) is messy and problematic,” 
the 19-year-old said. “I don’t want 
them to have more money to pro-mote their stances.” 
Ahmed said she wanted to pro-
vide an alternative way for people to donate their money and picked Planned Parenthood because she 
thinks it’s a great cause.Santos, a UF economics junior, 
said although his organization is 
against abortion and doesn’t sup-
port Planned Parenthood, the 
members believe in the free mar-ketplace of ideas and didn’t do 
anything against the opposing fun-
draiser.
“It’s a free market,” the 21-year-
old said. “People decide what they want to do with their personal 
money.”
Organizers of the opposing fun-
draiser put up a sign that read, 
“Your body your choice.” At one point during the events, a sign was posted above the counterfundraiser that read, “unless you’re a fetus.”
Santos confirmed the second sign was put up by a Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom member, but 
declined to name him. He said the 
person acted alone and his action 
does not represent the group.
Ahmed said she saw the person 
post the sign on the second floor of Turlington Plaza, crawling to the edge of the balcony. She also saw Santos’ videotaping it, she said.
“Despite what they say, he was 
associated with their organization at that instance because the public saw him walk to their table after,” Ahmed said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
Students plan fundraiser to counter conservative event
By Nicholas Aguila
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nearly 11 months after a fire shut 
down Smiley’s Antique Mall, the antique 
store will open with a new name, owner-
ship, management and website.
Antique City Mall will open Friday and 
look like a big box store, said co-owner 
Art Adkins. The family-owned store, lo-
cated 17020 SE County Road 234, will also 
have a new website that Adkins compared 
to the Amazon of antique shopping.
“You have to be incredibly tech savvy 
to keep up,” Adkins said. “We’ve been successful in our smaller market. Now 
that we’re moving, it’s a bigger playing 
field.”
A fire on Jan. 23 burned about half the 
building and shut the store down, said 
Art’s wife and co-owner Carol Adkins.
Art Adkins said he, his wife, his daugh-ter and his son will take over owning and managing the store. The family is focusing 
on improving customer service, he said.
“The whole emphasis is — and a lot 
of people do this — let the antiques sell themselves,” he said. “Usually, you have 
about as good a chance as getting kid-napped by a terrorist than getting help in an antiques place.”
The new management made Jayme 
Kortman, a vintage boutique owner in 
Monroe, Georgia, consider visiting again, 
she said. After visiting the store in Feb-ruary of 2016 and being unsatisfied with the service she received, she wrote a bad 
review on Facebook and vowed not to re-
turn, she said.
“It’s not hard to find an antique mall, 
and I shop all over the Southeast,” Kort-man said. “I will only frequent the ones 
that have a friendly atmosphere with good 
prices.”Antique mall damaged by 
fire to re-open Friday 
LAST YEAR’S FUNDRAISER 
SPONSORED 30 CAMP 
MEMBERS.
By Savannah Austin 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarah Wolking, her 11-year-old 
daughter, Caroline, and 13-year-old 
son, Benjamin, will run through Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park on Saturday to raise money for Caroline 
and Benjamin’s campmates.
The Wolking family is among 
149 people who have registered to 
participate in the fourth annual Little Run on the Prairie hosted by Alachua County 4-H, a camp program, and the UF/IFAS Extension Alachua County Office. The run, which starts at 8:30 a.m., funds scholarships for campers.
4-H, which stands for head, heart, 
hands and health, partners with public universities nationally to offer 
children 5 years old to 18 years old 
activities including after-school pro-grams and school clubs, according to its website. 
Last year’s 5K raised about $3,000 
and allowed for 30 students to attend a camp, said Ricky Quintana, the race director. This year, 149 participants have registered and more are expect-
ed to attend.
“We started off four years ago with 50 participants, so it’s grown significantly,” Quintana said. 
The race goes through Paynes 
Prairie trails and ends at a finish line 
with snacks, said Amanda Morgan, the Alachua County 4-H agent. 
Depending on the weather, at-
tendees will either be able to make their own trail mix or a smoothie by using a bike that blends as partici-
pants pedal, Morgan said. 
“The goal is to have a family fun and friendly event, but also to raise money for the summer camp scholar-
ships,” Morgan said.
Wolking has helped lead a run 
club of children 7 years old to 18 years old in preparation for the 5K, she said. 
“I’m a cheerleader and a part 
time coach just to encourage the kids to get out and be healthy no matter 
what their physical fitness is,” Wolk-
ing said. 
Youth organization to host run through Paynes Prairie
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
After six officers used force and a Taser, a 
UF student was detained Saturday afternoon after the UF football game.
Zachary Karl Strayer, 21, walked past a 
line of people at Salty Dog Saloon, located 
at 1712 W University Ave., and pushed a 
bouncer to the ground at about 3:30 p.m., according to a Gainesville Police arrest re-port. He was taken out of the bar by multiple other bouncers and argued with uniformed GPD police officers outside.
Police said Strayer seemed intoxicated 
and had slurred speech and red, glassy eyes. Officers told Strayer to stop arguing with them and leave the area but he refused, ac-cording to the report.
As officers tried to walk away, Strayer 
followed them, and police said he took an aggressive stance as if he was going to push an officer.
An officer told Strayer he was under arrest 
and tried to pull his arms into handcuffs, but Strayer pulled his arms away and grabbed an officer by the patches on his uniform, ac-
cording to the report.
About six officers tried to gain control of 
Strayer in handcuffs. At one point, police 
used a Taser on Strayer, who is 6 feet tall and weighs 225 pounds, which they said had “little to no effect” on him. 
Some of the officers received cuts and 
wounds from trying to arrest Strayer, and one officer was taken to the hospital to have his 
injuries evaluated, according to the report. 
The condition of the officer is unknown.Strayer was taken to the hospital due 
to his level of intoxication, Sargent Renee 
Guyen said. He was arrested after he was 
released from the hospital Monday. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail on Monday and released the next day on his own recog-nizance. 
Strayer is a UF student, according to the 
UF directory.
Strayer declined to comment. 
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@ufl.edu GPD: 6 officers used force, Taser to detain one UF studentWHOLE FOODS IS SET TO 
OPEN IN SPRING.
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville residents will have to wait un-
til Fall 2018 to satisfy their cravings for lettuce wraps from P.F. Chang’s China Bistro.
Several new stores in Butler Town Center 
at Stengel Field are set to open in 2018, Mary Reichardt, director of marketing for Butler En-terprises, wrote in an email. 
Whole Foods Market will be the first to open 
in the town center with a planned opening date in Spring 2018, Reichardt wrote. Following the grocery store, surrounding retail and restau-
rants including P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Irish 
31 and Grub Burger Bar will open in late Sum-mer or early Fall 2018. 
The 350,000-square-foot site will also in-
clude The Residences at Butler Town Center and The Terraces at Butler Town Center, which 
will be luxury apartments that include a pet 
grooming station, pool, hot tub and open floor plans. The apartments are set to open in 2019, she said. 
Also slated to open its doors in 2019 is the 
Stengel Field Food Hall. Butler Enterprises has partnered with local chef, Bert Gill, to create a food hall to offer local foods and create an area for Gainesville residents to shop, dine and re-
lax, Reichardt said. 
Kelsie Baumlin, a UF marketing sophomore, 
said she’s been eagerly awaiting the arrival of 
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro and Whole Foods. Although she’s looking forward to eating more orange sesame chicken, she’s a little concerned about side effects new development may have. 
“I’m a little nervous to see the traffic and the 
parking issues,” the 19-year-old said. 
@jessica_giles_ 
jgiles@alligator.orgNew Butler Town Center 
businesses to open in 2018The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Column
A guy friend of mine recently crashed a 
girls’ night out. It was a Thursday like any 
other: unnecessary wedges, ‘90s song re-
quests and all we could drink. It even ended 
where all GNO’s should — at the Flaco’s Cu-ban Bakery window. Just one thing kept me from calling the night a success, however. 
That night, I learned one important thing. 
Nothing spoils an arepa more than these words from our token dude: “I didn’t know girls talk about guys so much.” 
It was the ultimate feminist’s gut-punch even though 
it was said with a laugh and all the love in the world. When I asked my friend about it the next day, he barely remembered saying it, so it’s safe to say our boy-relat-ed banter didn’t rain on his University Avenue parade. 
Still, I couldn’t shake it off. I realized that my life, or at 
least my Thursday night, didn’t pass the Bechdel Test. 
The Bechdel Test is a simple, three-part test applied 
to movies. Here’s the criteria to pass: 1) there must be two female characters in the movie, 2) they must 
talk to each other at some point, and 3) they have to 
talk about something — anything — other than a man. While the test is heteronormative and could use an up-date to include romantic interests for all sexualities, 
it has good intentions. Women should be represented 
by characters who are more than objects of the male gaze, and this test attempts to hold writers, directors and producers accountable for that.
As an unabashed consumer of romantic comedies, 
I’ve watched movies of the genre scrupulously since I learned about the Bechdel Test. I thought it was crazy that a film, especially one meant to reflect realistic situ-ations, could make it to theaters without a single scene 
of dialogue between two female characters that didn’t 
have to do with a romantic interest. For the most part, even the most shallow-seeming rom-coms I’ve seen have passed where my own conver-sations have fallen short. 
I know I’m not the only one.On FaceTime, I ask my childhood friend, 
who is interning in a pediatric surgery unit, about her boyfriend before I ask about the 
pediatric surgeries. Over Google Hangouts, I 
ask my best friend, who has her dream job in New York City, about the girl she’s seeing before asking about, well, the dream job in 
New York City. I’ll call my sister to debate the possibil-
ity that I’m being ghosted before I’ll call her to tell her 
I got a story published. Are you cringing, too? 
I wouldn’t stand for this kind of thing if I saw it 
in a movie. I would not be cool with a character who 
spends the first half-hour gossiping about guys with 
her smart, talented, dimensional friends, before she even addresses what should be the primary storyline. 
I’m not proposing that we cease all discussions of 
our love lives, or serious lack thereof. There are days 
when new flames or bad breakups rightfully take cen-
ter stage. Plus, I probably wouldn’t watch a movie without a healthy amount of typical “girl talk,” and I wouldn’t want to go to brunch or a bar without some 
either. Sue me. 
We just have to remember that our rhetoric matters. 
The more we let the guys or girls we like seep into the 
center of our conversations, the less room we’ll have for our aspirations, ambitions, Instagram captions and 
other things that matter to us. Let’s take the time to 
remind our friends, and ourselves, that we’re the main characters.
 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays. Our lives should pass the Bechdel TestEditorial
An attempt to prove 
fake news failed, but 
are we surprised?   
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgA failed attempt by Project Veritas to expose the Wash-ington Post for media bias has the U.S. once again cooing about fake news and the dishonest and cor-rupt media. 
According to the organization’s website, the mis-
sion of Project Veritas is to “investigate and expose corruption, 
dishonesty, self-dealing, waste, fraud, and other misconduct in 
both public and private institutions in order to achieve a more ethical and transparent society.” The organization launches in-vestigations by using undercover journalists so that “corruption is exposed, leaders resign and organizations are shut down,” ac-cording to its website.  
Unfortunately for Project Veritas, its formula didn’t work 
with the Post when it planted a woman who falsely claimed Roy Moore, the Republican U.S. Senate candidate in Alabama, im-pregnated her as a teenager. The goal of the false interview was for the Post to publish an article that would be revealed as false and to record a Post reporter expressing an opinion on the story.
The Post recognized inconsistencies from the interviews and 
decided not to publish it. Reporters also found an Internet post that gave doubts about the woman’s motivations, although she 
claimed she wasn’t working with organizations that target jour-
nalists. Post reporters then saw the woman walking into the New York office of Project Veritas, and her cover was blown.
Rather than discrediting a major news source like the Wash-
ington Post, we at the Alligator hope the Project Veritas’ failed sneak attack on the paper has left the public with more faith in 
the media. The Post showed its dedication to accurate and trust-
worthy news and the importance of impartiality. 
We aren’t going to say fake news doesn’t exist. We know 
there are numerous websites and organizations out there with lit-tle journalistic integrity that are publishing inaccurate fluff pieces with sparse evidence. But we need to start using common sense when it comes to identifying who is providing us with fake news.
The Washington Post, for example, has been printing since 
1877, so why would the publication decide nearly 150 years into 
its existence ethics and morals are no longer a necessity? The 
New York Times has been printing for even longer, since 1851. We pose to you the same question.
News outlets like these are the ones being demonized and  
labled fake news. They’ve been pegged as liberal news sources and thus dubbed invalid and biased. But for professional report-ers with any ethics, how they feel about an issue is irrelevant to their reporting.
At the Alligator, most of us are journalism students. The 
classes we take drill into our heads the severity of accuracy and being unbiased. We are required to take several classes revolv-ing around media ethics and the laws of mass communications. Trust us, by the time we make it to working at prestigious pub-lications like the Times or the Post, journalists aren’t any more willing to relinquish the integrity that has become as much a part 
of them as their love for writing itself. 
Avoiding fake news is simple. Really, we are stupefied that 
people are still having issues identifying it. Please, dear readers, 
use your brains and come to terms with the fact fake news isn’t coming from respected publications like the ones being targeting. It’s more likely coming from the pop-up ad on your Facebook timeline or politicians on Twitter. At least a hypothetical scenario where the Commander in Chief is purposefully deceiving the public through fake news would be unheard of, right?  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
For the next two weeks the 
majority of us will be bogged 
down by endless assignments, 
finals and lengthy papers. While it’s easy to lose your motivation and throw up your 
hands, I hope you have the 
strength to finish strong.
Right about now I’m look-
ing at my Canvas calendar and feeling an inexplicable 
sort of anxiety that only comes around 
this time of the year. I know I’m not the only one. Most of us feel this, and it’s so much easier just to give up and hope 
for the best. 
Dear reader, I hope you have it in you 
to keep trudging along, even if it takes 
more out of you than it should. You’ve worked hard this entire semester and 
you owe it to yourself to be able to sit 
at your family’s dining room table on Christmas and say you put all the effort you could into this semester.
Each semester, at least for me and a 
lot of the people I know, starts strong. Nonetheless, it ends rough. In the be-ginning we’re well-rested, eager to learn and convinced we’ll make good grades. 
By the end, we’re beaten down, ex-
hausted and either binge-eating or liv-ing off of ramen noodles. It’s easy to just let finals pass by without putting in 
much effort. Couple everything piling on 
at once with the lack of sleep, and it’s the perfect recipe for losing your will to make it to your 8:00 a.m. final or binge-watching “The Office” for the seventh 
time instead of studying for that mac-
roeconomics exam you have coming up. 
Instead of participating in this crash 
and burn behavior, be proactive now. 
Stockpile your fridge with food that’ll 
give you energy, start outlining for that final now, actually step foot into office hours instead of assuming your educat-ed guess is right. 
Do something now to prevent your-
self from becoming overworked during finals week. 
While you might think the above advice isn’t possible now be-cause you’ve already got a 
jam-packed schedule, I’m here 
to tell you it’ll only get worse if you don’t start now. Take the five to ten minutes each 
day and start cracking open 
those dusty books that have been sitting on your coffee ta-ble as decoration all semester. Skip the Netflix shows for a 
bit. Get off of Snapchat, and try to keep your load as manageable as possible by making it work now, not the night be-fore you have three finals back-to-back.
I say all of this not to nag you fellow 
gators but to make you realize with a lit-tle extra work now, you can easily make it through the next two to three weeks without having a mental breakdown. It 
will take planning, and it will take some 
extra work. You will probably have to sacrifice some nights out.
But when the semester is over, your 
hard work will be worth it. 
To those of you who are in the same 
boat as I am and are struggling to make it through your last semester because life and getting a job are both looming 
over your head, I want you to know it’s 
OK to feel frustrated and done with col-lege. It’s not OK to let that be the reason you don’t pass. We’ve all made it this 
far, so don’t let graduation slip through 
your fingertips because of senioritis. 
Above all else, don’t be afraid to reach 
out to your professors or to UF if you’re struggling. There isn’t any shame in ad-
mitting you need help or you don’t un-
derstand something. Though we might often see professors as big, bad wolves who enjoy watching us do poorly on an 
assignment, they went into teaching to 
help, so make the effort to show them you’re interested and you’ll meet them halfway. 
Sara Marino is a UF Journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Wednes-
days.Let's finish this semester strongColumn
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgLast week, Federal Commu-
nications Commission Chairman 
Ajit Pai announced that the FCC 
would terminate the Obama era 
regulations on net neutrality, which is the idea that all data on the internet is equal and that it 
should be treated as such. This 
decision was met with intense backlash from politicians, mem-bers of the media and tech com-panies across the country. Hashtags and 
social media campaigns have even emerged 
with the predictable hyperbole. Some users and news sites are warning that a repeal of net neutrality would cripple the First 
Amendment and would bring the end to 
a free internet. Newsflash: It’s never been free. So which side is in the right here?
In theory, net neutrality is a nice idea. 
Internet service providers (ISP) shouldn’t 
be allowed to discriminate and favor some 
types of content and websites over others, right? Sure, but you’d be naive to think that content discrimination isn’t already occur-
ring with several of the tech giants. The 
truth is not all data are equal, and com-panies like Facebook, Twitter and Google have played a large role in creating that reality. In fact, these companies regularly 
discriminate. 
Former Facebook employees admitted 
to routinely suppressing conservative news 
websites that appeared under their trending 
tab. Google has been accused of the same 
tactics while also engaging in widespread demonetization of conservative videos. Twitter, which once called itself “the free speech wing of the free speech party,” has 
been accused of a long practice of banning 
and censoring popular conservative and lib-ertarian thinkers on its platform. 
As a free market capitalist, I believe these 
companies have a right to do this. While I vehemently disagree with their practices, I can’t stop them from trying to censor half of the country, which in any case will prove to be a horrible business model. What irks me 
more is the blatant hypocrisy being pushed 
by these companies. They pretend to be for a free and open internet while actively ensuring that it does not exist on their own platforms. 
Critics of ending net neutral-
ity argue that the internet will fall into the hands of a few power-ful companies like Comcast and AT&T who could theoretically 
charge users more money for fast-
er speeds and for visiting certain websites. While I acknowledge that this fear is legitimate, I don’t 
believe we will see a dramatic increase in 
prices if at all. The market will dictate what 
is offered and at what cost. Either way, why shouldn’t people and business be allowed to pay for faster speeds if that’s what they 
want? And why can’t ISPs offer that? Who 
is the government to tell them that they can’t? The ISPs that offer the best service at the best price will rule the marketplace.
The irony here is that the fears and 
complaints of net neutrality proponents de-scribe the exact conditions that are current-ly in place: little competition and a handful of companies that regulate content on the 
internet. It’s rather difficult for me to take 
supporters of a free and open internet seri-ously when they’ve largely been silent on Silicon Valley censorship over the past few years. Do they mean to suggest it’s okay for 
the tech giants to censor but not the ISPs? 
The only reason the tech giants are in 
favor of keeping net neutrality is because 
they’re afraid they’ll have to pay up with-
out it. Facebook can and should pay for 
the number of users and traffic it has. Why should a website that has billions of users pay the same amount of money as a website that has hundreds of users? I’m sorry, but I 
won’t be shedding a tear for Mark Zucker-
berg’s increased costs. 
Despite all of these reasons, the best 
argument I can make against the net neu-
trality hysteria is the following: Do you 
remember the internet before 2014? That’s the world we’re looking at. The internet existed without net neutrality. It’ll survive without it. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Stop panicking over ending net neutrality Column
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Art and Music:
Visionary Crossﬁ  t to host art exhibition and concert 
(pg. 10)A Christmas Carol: 
The Hippodrome to host its yearly performance of the classic (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
After nearly two years of business, an ex-
tensive remodel in June of this year and count-
less nights of electronic performances, Realm nightclub will close this weekend after gaining new ownership.
Although the news is disappointing for mu-
sic fans around Gainesville, the many people that breathed life into the nightclub plan to go out with a bang. Dubbed “The Last Dance,” Realm and local production company Over Easy Creative will host a 24-hour closing party starting Saturday at 7 p.m. and ending Sunday at 7 p.m.
The event will host two stages (one for 
house and one for bass), a private silent disco, breakfast tacos and mimosas, various drink specials and 35 performers from around the state of Florida, many of whom have played at Realm in the past. Tickets are available via Eventbrite for $13.
To keep things by the book, the perform-
ers will move to a separate location at 2 a.m. 
for the silent disco, which will only be for in-
vited guests. However, everyone will return 
to Realm at 7 a.m. to continue for the next 12 hours. The event will take place both at Realm and The Terrace, which is the top level of the Florida Theater that connects to Realm.
Les Voss, the owner of Over Easy Creative, 
said he approached Realm’s owner, Douglas Palmieri, with the idea because he wanted to make the closing event truly special. From there the two worked together to ﬁ  gure out how to ﬁ  ll enough slots for a full 24 hours.
“It’s pretty heavy trying to gather all the 
homies to get on it, but of everyone I asked only one person was unable to do it, and ev-erybody was so eager,” Voss said. “Our whole lineup is going to be crazy. It’s kind of like one giant puzzle with lots of pieces that can go in lots of different places.”
Voss himself will play two performances 
throughout the weekend: one under his real name and a sunrise set for the silent disco un-der his alias, Lost Vest.
Palmieri, the owner of both Realm and local 
audio/visual equipment event planning com-pany Gator Sound and Lighting, will also play one of the main slots under his DJ name, Black Cloud.
As for seeing his club close, Palmieri said 
that shifts in the local music scene make it easier to move on.
“I think it’s time to do better things,” Palm-
ieri said via email on Monday. “This town re-ally does not support EDM as it used to. It’s sad to see my creation close, but I feel it’s a blessing in disguise. I can now put my main focus where it should be, at Gator Sound and 
Lighting. I’m already ramping up equipment 
purchases to do bigger shows.”
Realm and Florida Theater recently came 
under the ownership of Bill Bryson, owner of Crane Ramen and other ventures around Gainesville. Renovations to the venue are ex-pected, something Voss said he looks forward to.“He does a really good job of what he gets 
his hands on,” Voss said of Bryson. “Even if it takes a year or two to really get it to be some-thing perfect, I’d be totally cool with that. To me, it’s one of the most historic buildings in Gainesville. So to me, it deserves to be a nice, 
well-treated machine.”
Although the future of the venues for elec-
tronic music in particular is unclear, Palmieri 
said that he and many others plan to keep the scene thriving in Gainesville.
“As the close of Realm marks the close of 
the only club dedicated to electronic music, 
there will be plenty of parties that Gator Sound 
and Lighting, Over Easy and Lucid will be in-volved (with) or throwing to keep electronic music alive here,” Palmieri said. “We at Realm will always love our home we had here, and the friends we made.” 
Realm to host 24-hour closing party ‘The Last Dance’ 
Courtesy to the Alligator.
Realm, Gainesville’s only all-electronic music nightclub, will close this 
weekend after two years of business.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Over Easy Creative and Swamp 
Records want you to say goodbye to 
the Fall semester through a night of live music, art, food and community.
Over Easy Creative and Swamp 
Records will hold their annual Fall Closing Party at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Thursday from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tickets for the party are available through Swamp Records at eventbrite.com for $10 presale.
The Fall Closing Party is a child 
of The JAM. Friends from Swamp 
Records and Over Easy Creative con-
ceived the idea while brainstorm-ing over beers at the now-closed Gainesville concert venue. The ﬁ  rst Fall Closing Party was held at The JAM in 2015 and drew a crowd of more than 400.
In 2016, the party moved to First 
Magnitude, located at 1220 SE Veitch 
St., said Over Easy Creative owner 
and DJ Les Voss.
This yearly celebration marks an 
end to the fall semester with music, art and food. A variety of Florida mu-sical acts will perform across indoor and outdoor stages.“I just want it to be really light-
hearted and social, especially being at a brewery,” Voss said. “It’s a good 
place to just kind of sit and drink a 
beer and have a conversation, but there’s also going to be so much go-ing on that it’s going to be super im-mersive.”
The Groove Orient, an Orlando-
native jam band, will be headlining the event, with accompanying per-formances from Whale Feral, Dun-stan Wallace Sounds, Nick Natural, Les Voss, King Complex and Aza-zus.
King Complex and Azazus were 
added to the lineup as winners of 
Swamp Records’ Mask Off Hal-
loween rap battle and Battle of the Bands respectively, said Swamp Re-cords president Mika Sheerin.In addition to the music, organiz-
ers are transforming First Magnitude visually with the help of Eclectic Elec-
tric through art installations, photo 
booths and lounge areas. Eclectic Electric has been involved with the creative processes behind Suwannee Hulaween and Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival.
Food will be available from lo-
cal vendors Dank Cakes, Soul Spice LLC, Off The Griddle, Soup to Nuts 
Food Truck and Over Easy Creative’s 
taco connoisseur Chef Louis.
Sheerin, 22, is a senior advertis-
ing major at UF and has been with Swamp Records since Spring 2015. Having helped to curate the musical line-up, Sheerin is excited for others to experience the variety of genres and styles displayed in the show.
“I think that concerts of this sort 
are deﬁ  nitely just a different kind of love and community,” Sheerin said. “You don’t always feel that, I guess, if you go to Midtown. I feel like this kind of thing means you’re all here for a purpose: because you like mu-sic, and you like supporting the arts. People who don’t go to these kinds 
of events but love those kinds of 
things are really missing out.”
Swamp Records, Over Easy Creative to host Fall Closing Party
Courtesy to the Alligator
This year’s Fall Closing Party will be the third installment of the event.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482
Locals don’t have Winter Break
DEADLINE: Wed, Nov. 29
RUNDATE: Wed, Dec. 6
Our Local Living Edition is the best place to position your 
advertisements for the  local market. This paper prints on the last day of the semester, when students are getting ready to leave town, and remains in racks throughout the break. The locals aren’t going anywhere, so maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the fall semester. Map-spotting is included! Save 5% when you pay with cash or check.Worried your business might take  
a break with the students?
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
Charles Dickens’ “A Christmas Carol” has 
seen several iterations on the stage and on 
screen since the book was ﬁ  rst published in 
1843. No matter the presentation, the classic 
story withstands the test of time to commu-
nicate its central themes of goodwill, gener-
osity and forgiveness.
For the 40th year, the Hippodrome State 
Theatre will tell the timeless tale of a greedy 
small-business owner who resentfully jour-
neys through time with the ghosts of Christ-
mas past, present and future.
From now to Dec. 22, the Hippodrome 
Theatre will host 13 performances based on 
an adaptation by Janet Allard and Michael Bigelow Dixon, directed by Niall McGinty.
Allard and Dixon’s version of the story 
comes with a unique and creative twist. While the pair take dialogue directly from Dickens’ novella, they retell the story by hav-ing every actor – male, female, young and 
old – play the infamous Ebenezer Scrooge.
Janet Stierwalt, 32, has lived in Gainesville 
since she attended UF and studied family, 
youth and community sciences as an un-dergraduate. The student housing property 
manager has seen the Hippodrome’s itera-tion of  “A Christmas Carol” every year since 
she discovered the show her junior year.
“I don’t think ‘A Christmas Carol’ will 
ever get old for me. I read the book in high 
school, but there’s nothing like seeing it on 
stage, especially the way they’ve been do-
ing it recently at the Hippodrome. I love that 
they continue to make it fresh and new,” Sti-erwalt said. “The message is timeless, and I 
hope I can bring my kids to see it someday.”
Contrarily, Alyssa Milonas, a 23-year-old 
theater aﬁ  cionado, only remembers bits and 
pieces of the 174-year-old story from her sophomore high school English class.
“I mostly remember the chills I got at the 
very end of the story. I can’t remember the details now, but the message of redemption always stuck with me,” Milonas said. “It’s 
hard to ﬁ  nd time to pick up a book these days, so to be able to catch the story on stage 
is pretty special. I love the magic of live the-ater. It’s so palpable, especially around the 
holidays.”
The Hippodrome offers private showings to elementary and middle school students 
at 10 a.m. on weekdays, while evening and 
weekend performances are open to the gen-
eral public, said Andrea Wakeﬁ  eld, ofﬁ  ce 
company manager.
Performances began Saturday and will 
continue every Saturday until Dec. 16 at 
2 p.m. and 4 p.m. After that, there will be 
one 2 p.m. and one 7 p.m. performance on 
Tuesday, Dec. 19, Wednesday, Dec. 20 and 
Thursday, Dec. 21. The closing show on Fri-day, Dec. 22, will have a 7 p.m. curtain.
Tickets for “A Christmas Carol” start at 
$18 for college students and children ages 
4 to 17. Tickets for seniors and the under 30 crowd are $28. Regular weekday tickets 
cost $38 while regular weekend tickets cost $40. Far side seating, regardless of age, goes 
for $23.
Tickets and more information can be 
found at tickets.thehipp.org.The Hippodrome presents 40th year of ‘A Christmas Carol’ 
Courtesy to the Alligator.
This will be the Hippodrome’s 40th year performing “A Christmas Carol, ” with the ﬁ  rst perfomance taking place in 1977.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Contributor 
Three years ago, Dan Gilroy made 
his directorial debut with the criti-
cally-acclaimed ﬁ  lm “Nightcrawler” 
in which Jake Gyllenhaal’s charac-
ter roams the streets of Los Angeles 
ﬁ  lming grisly crime scenes and sell-
ing the footage to news stations. 
Gilroy showed audiences a side of 
Gyllenhaal that had never been seen before, and he does the same with 
Denzel Washington in “Roman J. Is-
rael, Esq.”
Washington stars as the ﬁ  lm’s 
titular character, an autistic savant 
attorney that can cite the provisions of the California Criminal and Civil 
Code by memory. 
At ﬁ  rst, it’s hard to tell what time 
period the ﬁ  lm is set in due to Is-
rael’s three-piece suits, foam head-
phones and framed pictures of An-
gela Davis adorning the walls of his 
dingy apartment. It only becomes 
clear that the ﬁ  lm is taking place in the present when another attorney 
asks Israel what legal software pro-
gram he uses. Israel is truly a relic 
of the ’70s, as displayed by his insis-
tence upon using physical law books 
instead of a computer. 
Despite possessing savant abili-
ties for memorization and recollec-
tion of events, Israel’s lack of inter-
personal skills causes him to avoid 
courtrooms and people in general. 
Instead, he works behind the scenes 
in a two-person law ﬁ  rm, writing briefs and pleadings while his part-ner, who is the face of the ﬁ  rm, takes credit for his work. 
When his partner suddenly has 
a heart attack, Israel is forced to 
search for work as he cannot run the 
ﬁ  rm by himself, especially when he 
seems incapable of not talking back 
to judges and ﬁ  nding himself in con-
tempt. 
Israel initially tries to ﬁ  nd em-
ployment at an equal-rights non-proﬁ  t organization run by a wom-
an named Maya (Carmen Ejogo of 
“Selma”). The interview does not go 
well, but Maya is so impressed by 
Israel’s past contributions as an in-
ner-city civil rights activist that she remains in contact with him.
Eventually, Israel is hired by slick 
criminal defense attorney George 
Pierce (Colin Farrell) who represents 
the exact opposite of Israel’s ideals. 
While Pierce is motivated by mone-
tary success, Roman seeks to change 
the court system’s tendency to pun-
ish minor offenses with maximum 
sentences. 
If it’s not already clear enough 
that Israel tries to be a lawyer with 
dignity, the way he describes the ti-tle of esquire — “slightly above gen-
tleman but below knight” — makes 
it blatantly apparent. 
In a lapse of conscious, Israel 
abandons the principles that have guided his life and makes a decision 
that ultimately comes back to haunt 
him.  
Similar to how Gilroy showed the gritty underbelly of LA in “Night-crawler,” “Roman J. Israel, Esq.” also manages to depict the beauty of 
areas in Los Angeles that are often 
perceived as seedy. While down-
town LA and Los Angeles City Hall 
are frequently avoided due to ram-
pant crime and roaming homeless, 
the ﬁ  lm makes the night scenes of 
downtown Los Angeles both alluring 
and menacing at the same time.
While Washington succeeds in 
convincing audiences that Israel has spent decades putting others before 
himself, the plot is just too improb-
able to believe. 
The story quickly branches out 
into several different subplots, none of which are actually followed 
through by the conclusion of the 
ﬁ  lm. Right when a plotline starts to 
develop, a new story idea gets in-
troduced. It becomes increasingly 
frustrating to watch as the ﬁ  lm pro-
gresses and leaves viewers wonder-
ing why Gilroy didn’t commit to one 
storyline.
Regardless of Gilroy’s overly am-
bitious plot, Denzel Washington’s 
performance is one not to be missed. 
Washington crafts an indelible char-acter that is so uncharacteristic of 
him that it’s a bit jarring at ﬁ  rst. 
Fans of Washington will enjoy 
seeing him in a role unlike any other 
he has done before, but those who expect a screenplay that is compara-
ble in caliber to “Nightcrawler” will 
be sorely disappointed. Review: Denzel Washington saves “Roman J. Israel, Esq.” 
MOVIES
Photo via  IMDb
“Roman J. Israel, Esq. ” premiered Nov. 17 to mixed 
reviews.
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Visionary CrossFit, the innovative local gym 
known for its unique blend of exercise and art, 
will host an Art Walk Exhibition this Friday, where Gainesville residents can also enjoy a drum and bass showcase by Prof Goat.
Prof Goat, a notorious DJ from Orlando, has 
made a name for himself in the drum and bass com-munity since the ‘90s. The drum and bass genre is a fast-paced subgenre of electronic music as a whole, composed of breakbeats, heavy bass and synthesiz-ers.
According to the press release, Prof Goat has 
performed alongside many drum and bass headlin-ers throughout Florida, including the Miami Winter 
Music Conference and elsewhere around the coun-
try. The exhibit will also include music by Capt Bli, Illterror, Choppa Train, Adikt, LZRKMMNDR and Mickey Flair.
Lexi Aulabaugh, a 21-year-old UF criminology 
and law senior, said she was interested in attend-ing the event due to her desire to support the local music and art scene, while also enjoying the drum and bass showcase.
“Drum and bass is my favorite genre, and you 
don’t see many drum and bass events around Gainesville, so I deﬁ  nitely wanted to check it out,” Aulabaugh said.
Aulabaugh stressed that attending events like 
this can really make a difference in Gainesville’s art community.
“I think Gainesville’s art scene is comprised of a 
lot of talent, but more attention should be brought to 
them,” Aulabaugh said.  
Dee Carolina, a 29-year-old second grade teach-
er, is just one out of a long assembly of 11 local art-
ists promoting their work that night. Carolina said that while Gainesville is super supportive of local art, there could be more of an effort made toward reaching out to artists.
“I do think the local art scene is thriving in the 
sense that we have a lot of creative minds here and the community puts a lot of events together, but again, I think more invitations of some sort could 
help bring out even more folks into the mix,” said 
Carolina.
Carolina, who will be showcasing four pieces at 
the exhibition, said she incorporates materials such as lace, bugs, acrylic, pencil, thread, wood and met-al to create her abstract expressionist art, and her work can take from two weeks to three months to complete.
“The pieces I’m displaying that are geometric 
are called Voronoi diagrams and are with acrylic and thread,” said Carolina. “One is an abstract ﬁ  g-ure painting with acrylic, molding paste, lace, nail, wood, grass and an atlas moth.”
Carolina said her art is inspired externally by 
nature and society and driven internally from her low moments, interpersonal challenges and self-discovery.
“Art is my way to cope and create a dialogue in 
hopes to get rid of the stigma around mental health needs,” said Carolina. “I don’t like to say mental health issues because I feel it’s more normal than it’s portrayed. I think it’s a natural part of life — trauma, habits and coping.”
Carolina said Visionary CrossFit includes a lot of 
diversity within the art they showcase at their gym, and she’s looking forward to seeing the other artists and meeting everyone participating and visiting.
“I hope people who attend ﬁ  nd something that 
resonates with them and that it validates who they are in some sense or learn something about them-selves, either through my art or others, or even just the experience,” said Carolina.Visionary CrossFit to host Art Walk, drum and bass show 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Visionary CrossFit is known locally for being a gym, concert venue 
and art gallery all in one.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608Century 21 Elite LocationsCall Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsFelt single speed/fixie with flip flop hub. White Industries freewheel & custom Campagnolo components. One of a kind, build cost $1350. 55cm/medium size frame in excellent condi-tion. Absolutely a steal at $480. 352-278-4421  12-1-17-3-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils 
& internet incl. Grad student preferred. 
Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 12 Autos 9 Bicycles12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14
RGIS, LLCHiring NOW!
Inventory Associates• Starting: $9.00• Flexible p/t work• Promotion opportunities• Regular wage reviews• Grp health plan after 90 days• Equal Opportunity EmployerStart your career today!Apply @: www.rgis.comJob #: PRE1511       1-8-18-6-14WANTED: Personal Assistant for very suc-cessful Entrepreneur. $20/hr. Must have vibrant personality, be in great physical shape, enjoys sporting events. Office sup-port; computer &amp; plan social functions; light house work/errands; some travel. Email resume & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com    1-8-18-6-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1. LITERATURE: What 20th-cen-
tury author wrote a short story titled 
“Gimpel the Fool”?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Sometimes called “the second most visited home in America,” what Mem-phis, Tennessee, estate was designat-ed a National Historic Landmark in 2006?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the only 
mountain in North America that exceeds 20,000 feet?
4. FIRSTS: Who became the first 
woman in the British Parliament in 1919?
5. HISTORY: The International 
Committee of the Red Cross won what prize in 1944?
6. SCIENCE: In forensic science, 
what is dermatoglyphics?
7. MOVIES: In one of the movie’s 
classic songs, how much sugar does Mary Poppins say is necessary to make the medicine go down?
8. MUSIC: What is the classifica-
tion for an album that sells 10 million copies?
9. EXPLORERS: What European 
explorer was the first to reach the Mis-
sissippi River in 1541?
10. MEDICAL TERMS: What is a 
more common name for the malady 
called pityriasis capitis?
Answers
1. Isaac Bashevis Singer2. Graceland3. Denali (Mount McKinley)4. Lady Nancy Astor5. The Nobel Peace Prize6. The study of fingerprints7. A spoonful8. Diamond9. Hernando de Soto10. Dandruff
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 27, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
Reduce Your Student Loans & Obtain Financial Freedom!  Join Our Affiliate Program At ConversionPros and Get Paid on 3 Levels! Unlimited Potential!  See Exciting Details at http://ernie187.recruitlikeamachine.com/partner    1-8-18-5-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ACROSS
1 Schooner
features
6 Frosty coating
10 Shine
15 Advil competitor
16 __ of March17 EVE’s
companion, in a2008 Pixar film
18 *Is unsuitable21 “__ ideas?”22 “Back to the
Future” vehicle
23 Wild place
24 Rays or Jays26 RAM part27 First light28 Egyptian snake30 Wide shoe spec
32 *Literary
character with an
evil alter ego
38 Anti-cruelty org.39 “Hold up!”40 Radiate42 Twangy-voiced
43 Breakfast order
44 BFFs46 Gets a glimpse of48 Most innocent49 Canonized Mlle.50 *Threshold55 Bus depot: Abbr.56 Corrida opponent
58 Paddock sound
59 Hank’s job on
“Breaking Bad,”briefly
60 Modern-day
Persian
62 Tiny annoyance63 Former One
Direction singerZayn __
64 Frequent
presidentialcandidate Ralph
65 Fairy tale baddie
66 In reserve67 Skim (over)68 *See 42-Down69 Knight’s horse
DOWN
1 Angry with
2 Without
assistance
3 “Later!”4 Family room sets
5 Final email step6 Search quickly
through
7 Figure of speech8 Way around D.C.
9 Perfume
compound
10 No Doubt lead
singer Stefani
11 Chocolate dog12 “My Fair Lady”
heroine
13 Let happen
14 Fruit that’s still a
fruit when two ofits letters areswitched
19 What sirens may
do
20 Actress Salma
25 Chinese liquor
brand
27 San Diego
suburb
29 Climbed
31 The Eiffel Tower,
aptly?
32 Western outlaw33 Be indebted to34 Cleaning cloth35 Irish dance36 “Close
Encounters”beings
37 Hides one’s true
self
38 Idyllic41 Take for a first
drive42 With 68-Across,
each successive
one of a setgraphicallydepicted by this
puzzle’s circles
45 Arranged like the
68-Acrosses in
the answers to
starred clues are
designed to be
47 Farm mom
48 Tissue layer51 “What a
nightmare!”
52 Fab Four
drummer
53 [Don’t touch my
bone!]
54 Info a spy might
gather
57 Dollar bills59 Condé __
61 Recipient of
much Apr. mail
63 More, in Madrid
By Claire Muscat and David Steinberg
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/29/1711/29/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 29, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 “House” actor
Epps
5 Plant-sucking
insect
10 Gala affair
14 Went by bus15 Wear away
16 __ Day
VitaCraves
Multivitamins
17 Sunbather’s
spread
19 Spelling contests20 Intended
21 Lend support to
23 Wrestling surface
24 “In case 
you weren’tlistening ... ”
26 Like lambs
28 Pat-on-the-
baby’s-back
intended result
29 Cards to bet on32 Cut and pasted,
say
35 New York
Harbor’s __Island
36 Penpoint
37 Tough problem
39 Evergreen tree
42 Jelly beans, e.g.
43 Waiting for
customersupport, often
45 Brunch dish49 Singer Fitzgerald50 Speak from the
soapbox
51 “Help!”-ful pot
scrubbers?
54 Texter’s “I’m
shocked!”
55 Down in the
dumps
58 Glee59 Movie “Citizen”61 Coupe-back
contraption
65 Yet again66 “Ditto”67 Try to persuade68 “Women and
Love” writerShere
69 What Buffy does70 Lowly worker
DOWN
1 Poet’s planet2 Stooge with Larry
and Curly
3 Tracy/Hepburn
battle-of-the-sexes comedy4 Proof of
purchase
5 Insurance giant
6 Bit of expert
advice
7 “__ about that!”8 It’s in your head9 Cold-cuts seller
10 Songwriter 
Dylan
11 Iron-poor blood
condition
12 Womack of
country
13 Withstood wear
and tear
18 Consumes
22 Wilde’s “The
Picture of __
Gray”
24 German
automaker
25 Large, innocent-
looking peepers
27 VCR format28 Batman player
Affleck
30 Dutch airline31 Red Muppet33 “My Cup
Runneth Over”
singer
34 Eat in style
38 Cholesterol
letters39 Instructions next
to a perforated
line ... or a hint to17-, 29-, 45- and61-Across
40 Afflictions41 Nutritionist’s fig.42 Camp bed44 Warms, as
canned soup
45 Pipe smoked in
trendy bars
46 Fashion designer
Giorgio47 Fridge sticker
48 Peppermint
Patty, for one
52 Farm facilities
53 Opposite of 
post-
56 Hugging limbs57 Paces-and-
pistols encounter
60 Meadow mom
62 LIRR overseer
63 In the past
64 Boxing count
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/28/1711/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Written dissertation
1.  Sharp pain5.  Block of metal
2.  Carve6.  Void
3.  Extreme, acute7.  Least
4.  Cereal grassSHISTE
GWENITTNIGO
UANLN
RNVEAGE
SITNNEEWTSFEE
LIMTELANSWERS: 1A-Thesis  5A-Ingot  6A-Annul  7A-Fewest
1D-Twinge  2D-Engrave  3D-Intense  4D-Millet  B-Snow White11-29-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This fictional character dates 
back to the early 1800s.
BONUS
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
When Funda Nakkasoglu 
missed a three-pointer with 9:27 
remaining in the second quarter, 
forward Haley Lorenzen used her 
6-foot-3 frame to snatch an of-fensive rebound. She dribbled, retreated a few steps, and nailed 
a jumper from the elbow to ex-
tend a lead Florida would never 
give up.
The Gators (4-3) used Tuesday 
night’s game against Jacksonville (4-3) as a means of reworking their offense on the way to a 69-59 win, their third in four games.
Lorenzen’s rebound and put-
back jumper in the second quar-ter was a sign of things to come. The senior ended the game with a 
double-double, scoring 20 points 
on 9-of-15 shooting while pulling down 11 rebounds. She recorded six of the Gators’ 18 offensive boards, which contributed to 26 
second-chance points.
Gators coach Cameron New-
bauer said his team knew Jack-sonville would present issues for 
his players, like pressuring the perimeter to limit Florida’s three-point attempts.
Florida shot just 18 three-point 
field goals, its lowest mark of the year.
“You have to morph into what-
ever the defense is giving you,” 
Newbauer said. “You have to cap-
italize on that, and that’s what we did.”
Lorenzen, scoring all but one 
of her baskets from inside the arc, credited her teammates for help-ing her find easy buckets.
“We work on doing those post 
Former interim football 
coach Randy Shannon was reportedly let go from UF on Tuesday. Read the story, pg. 15.Gators safety asks for advice on uniform number
Florida sophomore Chauncey Gardner posted a Twitter poll on Tuesday 
night asking fans which jersey number he should wear in 2018: No. 1 or No. 23. As of press time, 51 percent of voters selected No. 23, the number he 
wore this past season. The poll closes at 8 p.m. on Wednesday.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Before the season began, UF coach Mike 
White questioned if the Gators can com-
pete with “griminess” and resilience. The play of point guard Chris Chiozza has giv-
en him an answer. 
After his showing at the Phil Knight In-vitational last week, Chiozza has proven he's the Gators’ “grimiest” player, some-
one that can be relied on in close games. 
Look no further than Florida’s double-
overtime win against Gonzaga, when Chi-
ozza registered 26 points and 10 assists in 
a career-high 46 minutes of action.
“What toughness he showed,” White 
said following the game.
White said Chiozza struggled to breathe after the final overtime ended, putting his 
body on the line so his team could pull out 
the 111-105 win.
Playing 40 minutes in a college basket-
ball game is no easy task. Add two over-
times, and it’s even harder. 
Chiozza exceeded that, playing 105 
minutes in three games across four days, 
including 35 minutes against Duke on Sun-day.“He was incredibly tough and resilient 
coming off a bunch of minutes,” White said. “He scrapped and he fought.”
White expects nothing less from his 
starting point guard. White has always 
known Chiozza can compete at a high 
level, having scouted the point guard as a 
15-years-old in Memphis.Gators guard Chiozza brings 'griminess' his coach is looking for
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
Senior forward Haley Lorenzen (44) scored 20 points and hauled in 11 rebounds during UF's 69-59 win against Jacksonville on Tuesday night. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: UF 69, JAX 59
Haley Lorenzen fuels Gators' home win over Jacksonville
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
My favorite part of Dan Mullen’s intro-
ductory press conference on Monday? 
The not-so-subtle, passive-aggressive 
shade thrown in nearly every direction by 
Florida athletic director Scott Stricklin. 
Let’s face it — there was a ton of ten-
sion between Florida’s last coach, Jim 
McElwain, and the University Athletic Association. There were also at least two other candidates Florida was considering — and may have even preferred — to re-place McElwain other than Mullen.
But Stricklin gave Mullen the job, and 
hearing him rationalize that choice on Monday was, if nothing else, enlightening.
Here are a few highlights:
“You’ve got to want to be at the 
University of Florida” 
It’s been widely reported that Florida 
pursued other coaching candidates, name-
ly Chip Kelly, who instead took the gig at UCLA, and current UCF coach Scott Frost, who, according to some reports, wasn’t in-terested in the Florida job.
Ouch.That must be a strange feeling for Flor-
ida, a program with three national cham-pionships, a deep well of wealthy boosters and prime real estate in one of the top hotbeds for high school football talent in the country.
Stricklin was asked about 
the Kelly rumors and didn’t re-
ally respond, except to say that 
much of the information that 
was reported was false.
However, he did say this:“I said this and I believe 
this: You have to want to be in the SEC,” Stricklin said. “You’ve got to want to be at the University of Florida.”
And then he said this:“You’ve got to really want to be here 
and know what you’re getting into,” Stricklin said. “I’m not sure every coach we talked to had the same zeal to step into that situation.”
That could be a shot at Kelly or Frost 
or both, each of whom may have simply turned down the UF job out of a lack of interest. 
After all, of UF’s last three coaches, one 
quit, one was ﬁ  red and one was bought out.
That doesn’t exactly scream “job secu-
rity.”Was conditioning a 
problem under McElwain?
On Monday, Mullen made a 
big show of how his team will 
be the most well-conditioned 
group in the nation next year.
He even said that was one 
of the ﬁ  rst things he addressed 
with Florida’s players when he met with them on Monday.
“I told them to rest up over 
the month of December,” Mullen said. “Be-cause when they come back in January, it’s probably going to be something they have never even experienced in their life before, our off-season conditioning program.”
After Mullen ﬁ  nished speaking, Strick-
lin was asked if conditioning was a prob-lem under McElwain. Stricklin paused and smiled before answering.
“I think any successful program has a 
really strong strength and conditioning pro-gram that builds accountability,” Stricklin said, “and I think programs that aren’t as successful usually are lacking in that area.”
You can make your own inferences from 
Stricklin’s comments, but that sounds like a hard “yes” to me.Stricklin was clearly bothered by 
coaching rumors
Stricklin made no attempt to hide his 
disdain for what he called “very little ac-
curate information” being reported about 
UF’s coaching search on social media.
On Monday, Stricklin was asked if Mul-
len was indeed his third choice (as had 
been reported), but didn’t give a direct an-swer. 
But he did insinuate that Mullen was 
not UF’s backup plan.
“As the rumor mill showed,” Stricklin 
said, “a lot of that information is really wrong.”
The real truth is probably somewhere in 
the middle — it’s hard to believe Mullen was Florida’s ﬁ  rst option from the jump, but maybe, after Stricklin had vetted all of his candidates, Mullen ended up being the best, safest (and most willing) choice.
But Stricklin remained ﬁ  rm in his stance.“I told everybody … there was going to 
be a lot of rumors and to ignore them,” Stricklin said, “and nobody paid attention to me.”
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. Contact him 
at icohen@alligator.org.
What Scott Stricklin was really thinking about as he announced Mullen hireIt’s Cohen Down / Opinion
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbFOOTBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
After two days as Florida’s 
head coach, Dan Mullen is already 
sorting out which assistants will 
join him on the sidelines in 2018.
He started by ditching a few 
high-proﬁ  le leftovers from Jim 
McElwain’s tenure. Florida re-
portedly ﬁ  red former interim head 
coach Randy Shannon, offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier, de-fensive line coach Robb Akey, defensive backs coach Corey Bell, 
receivers coach Kerry Dixon II 
and special teams coordinator Greg Nord on Tuesday, according to SEC Country. 
Running backs coach Ja’Juan 
Seider, defensive coordinator Chris Rumph, offensive line coach Brad Davis and linebackers coach Tim Skipper are reportedly still on 
staff and are on the road recruit-
ing. 
One coach not mentioned in 
the report is director of strength 
and conditioning Mike Kent, who  
some rumored would be one of the ﬁ  rst assistants to go. 
After Mullen was introduced 
as Florida’s head coach on Mon-
day, athletic director Scott Strick-
lin, who referenced strength and conditioning in his reasoning of 
why he hired Mullen, was asked 
directly if conditioning has been an issue for the Gators. 
“I think any successful pro-
gram has a really strong strength and conditioning program that builds accountability,” he said, “and I think programs that aren’t as successful usually are lacking in that area.”
Mullen emphasized condition-
ing in his remarks, too. He said 
he told players to rest up in De-
cember, because when they come back, the strength program is go-ing to be “something they have never even experienced in their 
life.”
And as former coaches pour 
out, new ones are ﬁ  ling in. 
Mullen hired two of his assis-
tants from Mississippi State, Billy 
Gonzales and John Hevesy, both of whom also coached when Mul-len served as Florida’s offensive coordinator from 2005 to 2008. 
The announcement didn’t 
specify what role the duo will have, but at MSU, the two served as co-offensive coordinators. Gon-
zales directed the passing game 
and coached receivers, while Hevesy managed the run game and coached the offensive line. 
Gonzales also served as Flori-
da’s recruiting coordinator from 2008 to 2009, leading the effort to land future NFL players like Ja-noris Jenkins, Jeff Demps, Andre 
Debose and Jon Bostic. 
Mullen dives into recruiting
In his ﬁ  rst news conference 
as Florida’s head coach, Mullen 
vowed to prioritize recruiting over 
the next few weeks, with the early signing period approaching from Dec. 20 to Dec. 22.
Mullen has begun to honor 
that promise. According to a re-port from SEC Country, he vis-ited the nation’s No. 1 recruit on Tuesday, Georgia commit Justin Fields. Fields is a ﬁ  ve-star, dual-threat quarterback in the class of 2018. Florida already has a com-
mitment from four-star passer 
Matt Corral in the same class, but when coaches change, situations change. 
The Gators understand that 
better than most, having lost two 2018 recruits in the past week, four-star receiver Jacob Copeland and three-star defensive end Tay-lor Upshaw, as well as two 2019 recruits, four-star safety Jaleel McRae and four-star receiver 
Maurice Goolsby.
But Mullen believes he can 
convince more elite players that 
he’s going to lead Florida out of its recent struggles. 
“When I was here 10 years 
ago,” he said, “we were blessed to have some truly spectacular play-ers. I mean, it’s fun calling plays when Tim Tebow is your quarter-back and he’s throwing the ball out to a Percy Harvin or a Louis 
Murphy or a Bubba Caldwell.
“We have to do a great job re-
cruiting to get that level of play-
er back here to lead us back to championships.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org  Shannon, Nussmeier reportedly ﬁ  red from coaching staﬀ  
Alligator File Photo
Doug Nussmeier (middle) and Randy Shannon (right) were reportedly ﬁ  red Tuesday. Nussmeier had served 
as Florida’s offensive coordinator, while Shannon was UF’s interim coach after Jim McElwain was let go. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2017
However, Chiozza showed 
how much he has matured since 
his ﬁ  rst year at Florida.
In his freshman season, 
he averaged 2.2 rebounds per game and collected 2.2 assists 
per game. In his senior cam-
paign, Chiozza is averaging 5.7 rebounds a game and has 6.8 assists per game through six games.
“His game’s changed since he 
matured,” White said. “He’s got 
a lot stronger and he’s become a 
handful on the interior.”
While White praised Chioz-
za’s improvement and acknowl-edged the Gators defend better 
than now they did a month ago, 
he still expects more.
But for Chiozza, the biggest takeaway from the Phil Knight Invitational was the chance to 
prove Florida is a grind-it-out 
team and is taking White’s com-
ments to heart.
Following a 108-87 win over 
Stanford, a hard-fought victory 
against Gonzaga and a three-point loss to top-ranked Duke, 
the Gators are starting to prove 
they can play at the level their 
coach wants.“Just shows we got some 
toughness in us,” Chiozza said. “This tournament showed we 
were a tough team.”
A video on FloridaGators.com 
contributed to this article.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 14Chris Chiozza is averaging 6.8 assists per game
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Point guard Chris Chiozza (11) brings grit to a Gators men's basketball team that lost nearly half of its roster after last season. 
feeds every day,” Lorenzen said. 
“I think we did a great job of be-ing versatile with our positions.”
The offensive outburst came 
right away for the Gators when they started the game on a 7-0 run. The lead remained within 
reach for Jacksonville head-
ing into the third quarter off the strength of guards Brandi Buie and Naqaiyyah Teague's 5-of-11 combined shooting.
But UF pulled away in the sec-
ond half, scoring the ﬁ  rst eight points in the third quarter. Flor-
ida extended its lead to 22 after 
a Sydney Searcy three-pointer put the Gators up 48-26.
The Dolphins attempted to 
make it close in the late stages of the game, pulling within eight with just under a minute to go. Jacksonville utilized a full-court press that resulted in multiple 
turnovers for Florida. 
But once again, the Gators' of-
fensive rebounds were too much 
for Jacksonville to overcome, as 
Dyandria Anderson grabbed a Lo-
renzen miss and scored with 30 seconds left to increase UF's lead back to double digits.
Florida will have the rest of the 
week to practice and rest before 
traveling to Norman, Oklahoma, 
to face the Sooners on Sunday at 3 p.m.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org W-HOOPS,  from pg. 14UF tops Jax 
in O'Dome