We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 165 TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
What was Florida’s best moment 
of 2016-17?
See which UF moment was dubbed the best by alligatorSports this season, pg. 14
GPD: Intruder stood over sleeping woman
Police say the suspect is still at large, pg. 5
Women help lost 3-year-old at Walmart
He was by himself in the Walmart parking lot, pg. 8FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Catherine Lucey
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — Anthony Scaramucci 
is out as White House communications director 
after just 11 days on the job — and just hours af-ter former Gen. John Kelly took over as President Donald Trump’s new chief of staff.
Hoping to turn the page on a tumultuous 
opening chapter to his presidency, Trump had in-sisted earlier Monday that there was no chaos in his White House as he swore in the retired Marine general as his second chief of staff.
Not long after, Scaramucci, who shocked 
many with a profane outburst last week against then-chief of staff Reince Priebus, was gone.
In the words of the White House announce-
ment, he was leaving because he “felt it was best to give chief of staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team.” The three-sentence release concluded, “We wish him all the best.”The statement about Scaramucci’s departure 
used the same “clean slate” language that former press secretary Sean Spicer used to describe his reason for resigning July 21 — the day Trump brought Scaramucci aboard.
Spicer was at the White House on Monday, 
saying he was assisting with the communications transitions.
As the Scaramucci news spread, Kelly was in 
the East Room smiling and taking pictures with guests who were gathering for a Medal of Honor presentation.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee 
Sanders said Trump felt that Scaramucci’s profan-ity-laced comments against Priebus “were inap-
propriate for a person in that position” of White 
House communications director. The president had not publicly expressed disapproval of those comments in the days after they became public.
Sanders added that Kelly has “the full author-
ity to operate within the White House and that Scaramucci out of White House 
job as John Kelly takes chargeBy Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
At the 2017 FINA World Champion-
ships, one man from Gainesville stole the 
show.
Well, technically rising senior Caeleb 
Dressel is from Green Cove Springs, Flori-
da. But this past week, Dressel represented 
the University of Florida—and then some.
Dressel tied Michael Phelps’ record with 
seven gold medals in a major international meet in Budapest, Hungary, setting seven American records and a pair of world re-cords along the way.
Dressel collected gold medals in the 
mixed 4x100m free relay (American re-
cord), the 4x100m mixed medley relay 
(American record, world record), the 100m free (American record), 50m free (Ameri-can record), 100m ﬂ  y, mixed 4x100m free relay (American record, world record), and the 4x100m medley relay.
He also set American records in the 
semiﬁ  nal rounds of the 50m ﬂ  y and the 50m free.
Dressel kicked off his dominant perfor-
mance by claiming two American records on opening day of the weeklong event and never slowed down. Dressel swam for at least one gold medal on all but one of the seven days he competed.
Dressel saved the best for last, tying 
Phelps’ record with a ﬂ  urry of four gold medals during the ﬁ  nal two days of com-
petition.  Dressel set a record of his own in the process with three gold medals in one 
day at the world championships.
Dressel has racked up 21 All-American 
selections in his three years at Florida, has been named First Team All-SEC each year, owns six NCAA titles and has even made the Academic Honor Roll.
Dressel also competed in the 2016 
Olympics.
A total of 11 other Gators made the trip 
to Budapest as well. Liliana Szilagyi, rep-resenting host country Hungary, was the 
only female swimmer currently attending 
UF.
Szilagyi, a rising sophomore, competed 
in the 100m ﬂ  y, 200m ﬂ  y and the 4x100m medley relay.  Szilagy only reached the ﬁ  -nal round of competition in the 200m ﬂ  y, where she ﬁ  nished seventh overall.
Rising senior Mark Szaranek (Great 
Britain) competed in the 200m IM and the 
400m IM. Szaranek failed to move past the 
preliminary round of the 400m IM but did reach the 200m IM semis.
Jan Switkowski (Poland), another rising 
senior, competed in four events. He missed the cut in the 200m free preliminaries, but did reach the semiﬁ  nals for the 100m ﬂ  y, 200m ﬂ  y and took seventh place in the 4x200m free relay.
Enzo Martinez-Scarpe (Uruguay) took 
part in the 100m free and the 50m free. Martinez-Scarpe, the last of four rising se-niors to compete in Budapest, could not manage to move past the two preliminary Gator great Dressel ties Phelps’ gold medal record
Associated Press
United States’ Caeleb Remel Dressel listens to the national anthem after winning the 
gold medal in the men’s 100-meter butterﬂ  y ﬁ  nal during the swimming competitions of the World Aquatics Championships in Budapest, Hungary, on Saturday.
SEE DRESSEL,  PAGE 4
SEE AP, PAGE 4By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
July 28 started like any other day for 
Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias — 
until he saw a video of the president’s speech to a group of fellow law enforce-ment ofﬁ  cers.
“I’m a cop. I do not agree with or 
condone @POTUS remarks today on po-lice brutality. Those that applauded and cheered should be ashamed,” wrote To-bias, the spokesperson for GPD, on his personal Twitter account. 
It was 4:26 p.m. when he posted it. By 
midnight, it had reached 656,946 people.  
“I never envisioned a time where I 
would be issuing remarks to the presi-dent of the United States against some-thing that they said,” Tobias said. “I have the highest remarks for that ofﬁ  ce, no matter who holds that ofﬁ  ce.” President Donald Trump spoke to 
police in Long Island, New York, on his administration’s ﬁ  ght against MS-13, an 
internationally-known gang accused of 
several murders in Long Island. When speaking about arresting gang members and illegal immigrants, Trump said, “Please don’t be too nice.” 
Trump told the ofﬁ  cers that during ar-
rests, when they place suspects into the back of their patrol cars, they shouldn’t 
rest their hand on the arrestees’ heads 
to keep them from slamming into the vehicle. “You can take the hand away, OK?” Trump said to laughter and ap-plause from some of the ofﬁ  cers in the audience. 
Tobias said after ﬁ  ve years of working 
in the communications ﬁ  eld and serving as GPD’s spokesperson, he understands 
that context is key. He said that although ‘Who we are’: GPD’s 
fight against Trump
SEE GPD,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vinyasa yoga at the Harn
Get in tune with your breath 
and follow it through standing, 
flowing, seated and balancing 
postures at the Harn Museum of Art. Today and Wednesday, the Harn will host a free vin-
yasa yoga class from 3:45 p.m. 
to 4:45 p.m. Please bring your own mat, and check in all personal items at the security desk. A water station will be 
provided. For more informa-
tion, visit harn.ufl.edu/blank-space.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45pm in UF’s Entomology Building, 
Room 1031. Meetings are free 
to attend and open to the public. For more information, visit the Toastmasters’ web-site, talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org.
Taco Tuesdays at Swamp Head 
Brewery with Cilantro Tacos
Swamp Head Brewery, located 
at 3650 SW 42nd Ave., is part-
nering with Cilantro Tacos to bring you tacos each and ev-ery Tuesday at the brewery.
Cilantro Tacos will be there 
from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., and 
the tasting room will function as normal. Prices vary but are generally between $2 and $8. 
For more information, visit 
info@swamphead.com.
 Trivia night at First Magnitude 
Brewery
Come out to team trivia at First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE 
Veicht St., today at 6:30 p.m. 
The event is free with prizes in categories such as history, geography, arts and litera-ture, sports and science. Food 
will be available from one of 
the daily food trucks or you can bring your own. All ages are welcome. For more infor-
mation, visit facebook.com/
events/442592162791134.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s 
Comedy Boom features live 
stand-up comedy every Wednesday night. Local come-dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 
8:45 p.m., and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will accompany the show.
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
The Irie OnesThe City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs department will host its an-
nual series of free, family-
friendly concerts in downtown Gainesville. Featuring local and regional musicians, the 2017 “Free Fridays” concert 
series plays every Friday night 
from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. through Oct. 20. The series includes a diverse selection of musical 
genres, with this Friday fea-
turing The Irie Ones, a reggae band. For more information, visit gnvculturalseries.org/free-fridays-concert-series.
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista Joshua Broadhead, who goes 
by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot 
Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@
gmail.com.
Guided tour of Kanapaha 
Botanical Gardens
Kanapaha offers a guided tour 
of the Botanical Gardens, lo-
cated at 4700 SW 58th Drive, the first Saturday of every month, starting at 10 a.m. The 
price for non-members is the 
same as regular admission, $8 for adults and $4 for children, and members are admitted for free. For more information, 
visit kanapaha.org.
Weekly Bible study on deliver-
ance through discipleshipElnathan of Haven of Hope, lo-
cated at 321 SE 48th St., will sponsor a weekly Bible study. This study will focus on deliv-erance through discipleship. 
For more information call 352-
377-8669, text 352-213-2147 or email hutchinsonjoanna12@gmail.com.Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event in August. The gal-
lery features hundreds of qual-
ity, handcrafted fine arts and crafts created by regional art-ists. The event will be held at the gallery, located at 201 SW 
Second Place. For more infor-
mation, call 352-378-1383 or visit artisansguildgallery.com.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The ex-
hibition features work by 
Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-lar street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract 
photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in-clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different 
sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby 
Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  89° LOW  71°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 165TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Steigleman looks forward 
to the day he can get to class without 
getting soaked ﬁ  rst.
“The rain makes it hard to ride a 
scooter,” the 19-year-old UF math-
ematics junior said. “It also makes 
it hard to do anything outside and even makes traveling less enticing.”
On Sunday, the Florida Public Ra-
dio Emergency Network announced that Gainesville has ofﬁ  cially seen its 
rainiest summer ever. The city had 
record-breaking rainfall in both June and July.
“We’ve had a couple of different 
cold fronts coming down and then just some stalled weather systems that produced large amounts of rain-fall,” said Cyndee O’Quinn, a meteo-rologist at the UF College of Journal-
ism and Communications. 
O’Quinn said Gainesville record-
ed 16.7 inches of rain in July, which beat the city’s past record of 16.65 inches of rain in 2013.
“We broke our all-time rainiest 
summer season before we even got 
into the month of August,” O’Quinn said. “So as of July 30 we have set a new record of 33.56 inches, and that broke our record by more than an inch back in 1965 of 32.55 inches.”
O’Quinn said the heavy rain has 
advantages, especially in stopping the drought Gainesville was experi-encing earlier in the year.“The drought actually ended 
back in June for every county in the state,” she said. “We are, I guess, re-ﬁ  lling on some of the aquifers with the continuing heavy rainfall amount and the pattern does not look like it’s changing anytime soon.” 
Although Gainesville is expected 
to see more rain today, O’Quinn said the rain is expected to move away 
from the area by Wednesday or 
Thursday. 
Caroline Medelius, a UF environ-mental science and Russian sopho-
more, said she doesn’t mind the rain 
at all.
“I don’t think there are many 
negative effects of the record-high numbers,” the 20-year-old said. “If anything, the added water will re-sult in Gainesville being more green, with less dry vegetation and a small-er chance of ﬁ  res.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
Gainesville sees rainiest summer ever on record
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Cuban native was arrested Sat-
urday after police said he stabbed a man in the back for reportedly hav-ing an affair with his wife.
Hugo Paz Rodriguez, 48, walked 
behind a man in the bar area of Gumby’s Pizza, located at 2028 SW 34th St., at about 7:30 p.m. and stabbed him in his lower back with one of the two knives concealed under his arms, according to a Gainesville Police report.
He dropped his second knife dur-
ing the attack.
As Rodriguez tried stabbing the 
man again, one witness grabbed him and pulled him away while another snatched the knife away, according to the report.Rodriguez then ran away from 
the pizza restaurant and called 911 to say he “did something bad” and needed to pay for it, said GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. He told the operator that police could ﬁ  nd him lying down in the parking 
lot of the Campus USA Credit Union 
on the other side of Southwest 34th Street.
Police found Rodriguez and ar-rested him without any trouble, To-bias said.
Witnesses told police that Rodri-
guez attacked the man because the victim had an affair with Rodriguez’s wife. According to the report, Rodri-guez took a baseball bat to his wife’s 
car last Tuesday because of her in-
ﬁ  delity.
Rodriguez’s wife told police that 
her husband was very unstable due to the death of his mother, recent heart surgery and her affairs with other men, according to the report.
The victim was transported to UF 
Health Shands Hospital with a major injury to his lower back. Tobias said he is expected to survive.
As of press time, Rodriguez re-
mains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $500,000 bond and faces a charge of attempted murder.
GPD: Man stabbed in the back at Gumby’s Pizza rounds.
The final current Gator to swim was rising sopho-
more Khader Baqlah. Baqlah, who competed for Jor-
dan, participated in the 400m free, 200m free and the 4x100m free relay.
However, he didn’t advance past the prelims for 
any of his events.
Conor Dwyer (United States), who swam for the 
Gators from 2009-2011, participated in the 4x200m relay prelims and helped the U.S. reach the event’s final round.
Omar Pinzon (Columbia), who last competed as 
a Gator in 2009, only took part in the 200m back, failing to advance behind a 28th-place preliminary 
showing.
Carlos Omana (Venezuela) participated in the 
200m back and the 200m IM, falling short in the pre-
lims with 35th- and 37th-place finishes, respectively.
Corey Main (New Zealand) competed in the 
4x100m free relay, 200m back, and finished eighth in the 100m back finals.
Elizabeth Beisel (United States) took seventh 
place in the 400m IM and Hilda Luthersdottir (Ice-
land) took part in the 100m breast and made it to the 
50m breast semis.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
all staff will report to him,” a change from Priebus’ tenure.
Earlier, in an Oval Office ceremo-
ny, Trump predicted Kelly, who pre-viously served as Homeland Security chief, would do a “spectacular job.” And the president chose to highlight the rising stock market and positive 
job outlook rather than talk about 
how things might need to change in his White House under Kelly.
Trump on Friday ousted Priebus 
as chief of staff and turned to Kelly, who he hopes will bring military dis-cipline to an administration weighed down by a stalled legislative agenda, infighting among West Wing aides 
and a stack of investigations.
Scaramucci’s brief tenure shoved 
internal White House disputes into 
the open. In media interviews, he trashed Priebus as a “leaker” and senior White House aide Steve Ban-non as a self-promoter. One of Scar-amucci’s first — and it turns out only — acts was to force out a communi-
cations aide seen as loyal to Priebus.
Spicer, Priebus and Bannon had 
all objected to Trump’s decision to 
hire Scaramucci, who would have reported directly to the president.
While Trump is looking for a re-
set, he pushed back against criticism of his administration with this tweet: “Highest Stock Market EVER, best 
economic numbers in years, unem-
ployment lowest in 17 years, wages raising, border secure, S.C.: No WH chaos!”
In fact, economic growth aver-
aged 2 percent in the first half of this year, a pace Trump railed against as a candidate and promised to lift to 3 percent. The stock market first 
hit a record under former President 
Barack Obama and has kept grow-ing. The unemployment rate, too, started to decline on Obama’s watch. And wage gains have been weak.
Trump on Monday convened his first Cabinet meeting with Kelly at 
his side, telling his team it is “doing 
incredibly well” and “starting from a really good base.” On how he would deal with rising tensions with North Korea, Trump said only: “It will be handled.”
Seated across from Trump was 
Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who has stayed on the job while Trump has publicly savaged him in inter-views and on social media.
Kelly’s success in a chaotic White 
House will depend on how much authority he is granted and whether Trump’s dueling aides will put aside 
their rivalries to work together. Also unclear is whether a new chief of 
staff will have any influence over the president’s social media histrionics.
Former Trump campaign man-
ager Corey Lewandowski, who was ousted from the campaign in June 2016, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that he expected Kelly would “restore order to the staff” but also 
stressed that Trump was unlikely to 
change his style.
“I say you have to let Trump be 
Trump. That is what has made him successful over the last 30 years. That is what the American people 
voted for,” Lewandowski said. “And 
anybody who thinks they’re going to change Donald Trump doesn’t know Donald Trump.”
Kelly’s start follows a wild week, 
marked by a profane tirade by Scar-
amucci, the president’s continued 
criticism of his attorney general and the failed effort by Senate Republi-cans to overhaul the nation’s health care law.
In addition to the strains in the 
West Wing and with Congress, Kelly starts his new job as tensions esca-late with North Korea. The U.S. flew two supersonic bombers over the Korean Peninsula on Sunday in a show of force against North Korea, 
following the country’s latest inter-
continental ballistic missile test. The U.S. also said it conducted a success-ful test of a missile defense system located in Alaska.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., 
said on CBS’ “Face the Nation” that 
she hopes Kelly can “be effective,” 
and “begin some very serious nego-tiation with the North and stop this program.”
Another diplomatic fissure 
opened Sunday when Russian Presi-dent Vladimir Putin said the U.S. would have to cut its embassy and consulate staff in Russia by several 
hundred under new sanctions from 
Moscow. In a television interview, Putin indicated the cutback was retaliation for new sanctions in a bill passed by Congress and sent to Trump.
Trump plans to sign the measure 
into law, the White House has said. After Putin’s remarks, the State De-
partment deemed the cutbacks “a 
regrettable and uncalled for act” and said officials would assess the im-pact and how to respond to it.
While Trump is trying to refresh 
his team, he signaled that he does not want to give up the fight on health care. On Twitter Sunday, he said: “Don’t give up Republican Sen-
ators, the World is watching: Repeal 
& Replace.”
The protracted health care fight 
has slowed work on Trump’s other policy goals, including a tax over-haul and infrastructure investment. But Trump aides made clear that the president still wanted to see ac-tion on health care. White House 
budget director Mick Mulvaney said 
on CNN’s “State of the Union,” that 
senators “need to stay, they need to 
work, they need to pass something.”
The House has begun a five-week 
recess, while the Senate is scheduled 
to work two more weeks before a summer break.
Associated Press writers Jonathan 
Lemire, Darlene Superville, 
Julie Bykowicz and Jill Colvin 
contributed to this report.
Scaramucci served as communications director for just 11 days
AP,  from pg. 1
Associated Press
In this July 21 photo, incoming White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci blows a kiss 
after answering questions during a press briefing in the White House. He was out of a job in just 11 days.
the president was speaking about MS-13 
and serious criminals, there’s no dignity in roughing up prisoners after they’ve al-ready been handcuffed and detained. 
“Once that person is handcuffed, no 
matter what they did, they are still a hu-man being,” Tobias said. “That’s when the public looks to us to be the most pro-fessional.”
Since July 28, Tobias’ words were 
retweeted more than 109,000 times and liked more than 332,000 times. In addi-tion to appearing on CNN, his tweet was featured in The New York Times. 
Hours after Tobias’ personal tweet, 
GPD Chief Tony Jones gave Tobias per-
mission to draft GPD’s official response 
to the president’s words. Since late Fri-day night, the agency’s Facebook post has reached more than 1 million people, and its tweet has reached nearly 7 mil-lion. 
For some in the Gainesville commu-
nity, GPD’s exposure to the rest of the nation was a triumph. 
As a person of color, Gainesville resi-
dent Eddie Lee Edwards said Trump’s words pained him. 
“It just cut against what I think should 
be the message of anyone in govern-ment,” Edwards, 39, said. “Hearing that message it was like, ‘Great, now we have more fuel to an already tense situation about issues of police-citizen interac-
tion.’” 
Edwards, who’s lived in Gainesville 
since 1999, said over the years, he’s seen 
GPD grow to be one of the best police agencies he’s ever known. 
Now a second-year law student at 
the Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law in Orlando, Edwards hopes to pass the 
Florida bar and practice criminal law in 
Gainesville after he graduates. 
He said he feels safe with GPD, an 
agency he considers to be both profes-sional and community oriented. 
“The more positive press that GPD 
gets out, the better,” Edwards said. “Our 
institutions need to be speaking up for 
what’s right.”
But some residents felt as though GPD 
misconstrued Trump’s words and made a political move to get positive press. 
Daniel Wheldon, a chairman of the 
conservative Young Americans for Free-dom organization, said he thinks GPD was in the wrong. 
“They don’t have to experience the 
level of crime that MS-13 commits,” said the 20-year-old UF political science ju-nior. “I think it was an extreme political move in a very liberal city knowing that it would hit very well to get the notion that Trump was pushing for police brutality.” 
Mayor Lauren Poe said he felt GPD’s 
reaction had nothing to do with politics, but more about safety and mutual respect 
that should exist between citizens and 
their police force.
“Our police department cannot serve 
and protect our citizens if our citizens are afraid of them,” Poe said. “It is so critical today more than ever that police depart-ments build positive relationships with their community.” 
Tobias said at the end of the day, po-
lice exist to serve the American people, and, to do that, they must earn the peo-ple’s trust. He said his and GPD’s state-ments were to give what he knows the Gainesville community expects of its po-lice force.
“I wanted to remind our community, 
‘Hey, Gainesville folks, this is who we are,’” Tobias said. “‘This is is what we’re 
going to do, this is what we’re not going 
to do.’”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
They both have 7 GPD’s tweet reached 6 million
DRESSEL,  from pg. 1 GPD,  from pg. 1TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!By Samantha Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
Earlier this month, community 
leaders collaborated to lend support 
and solidarity at the Alachua County Victim Services & Rape Crisis Center’s second annual community 
outreach meeting.
Brittany Coleman, a victim 
advocate counselor with Gainesville 
Police and the county’s crisis center, said feedback from participants will be used to strengthen services for victims of sexual assault. 
Representatives from GPD, 
Gainesville public schools, the UF 
Counseling & Wellness Center and 
Alachua County Animal Services all attended the July 20 meeting, held in the Florida Department of Health in Alachua County’s Thomas Coward Auditorium, located at 224 SE 24th St.
Coleman said the center wishes to 
partner with agencies such as animal services so that victims are able to exit a difﬁ  cult domestic situation 
without leaving an animal behind.
“I think the more variety you can 
have in a conversation, the better,” 
Coleman said.
GPD works with several agencies 
in Gainesville to provide necessary services in high-risk cases by providing external resources for victims, she said.
Coleman said the center’s goal 
is to effectively promote those services while also holding outreach meetings to understand what the organization is doing well and how it can improve.
Sophia Eikenberry, a UF 
neurobiological sciences sophomore and sexual assault survivor, was one of about 20 to attend the meeting. Eikenberry said because UF’s support services are focused on prevention, 
she feels that real survivors of sexual 
assault can be left out.
Eikenberry, 19, who is 
determined to take greater action for survivors in the community, said her mother sent her a link about the outreach meeting and decided to go to see what resources she could ﬁ  nd.
“I didn’t know where to start,” 
Eikenberry said. “So I started brainstorming ideas just reﬂ  ecting on my experiences.”
Eventually Eikenberry said she 
had the idea to introduce a new measure to protect sexual assault survivors at UF. The measure would require all professors to include Title IX actions in their course syllabi in addition to listing contact information for Title IX coordinators.
“Title IX guarantees that the 
university has to take action and that will hopefully get more of a response from students,” she said.
Eikenberry said at the outreach 
meeting, she made two contacts who will help implement her idea.
Nick McMillen, who volunteers 
at the center by providing legal and medical options to victims who 
call the 24/7 hotline, said although 
he doesn’t follow up with any of the victims who call, the outreach meeting gave him a better idea as to how to support survivors.“I feel what all victims need is that 
ally, they need someone to believe them, and that’s the ﬁ  rst mantra … always believe the victim,” he said.
McMillen, who has a daughter in 
sixth grade, said he was encouraged when someone proposed 
implementing sexual assault 
prevention in the middle and high schools. 
“I am going to pursue that 
because I feel it is very important,” he said.
Coleman, who frequently works 
with GPD ofﬁ  cers in the criminal investigations division, agreed with 
McMillen’s idea.
“I think the schools were one of 
the big ideas that came out of the 
meeting,” she said.
County’s Rape Crisis Center seeks to strengthen services
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A man who police said broke into a 
woman’s apartment near Midtown early Saturday morning and watched her sleep is still at large. 
At about 3:30 a.m. the woman woke up 
to a tall black man standing over her bed holding a cellphone with the ﬂ  ash on, said Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben Tobias. The man left moments after 
she woke up and told him to leave. 
When police arrived at her apartment 
at Northwest Third Place, the suspect was nowhere to be found. Tobias said he likely entered the woman’s apartment through an unlocked front door. 
Tobias said the man may have been 
in Midtown before the reported burglary. Police released a composite picture of the suspect Monday afternoon.
Detectives are asking residents who 
were in Midtown late Friday or early Satur-day to check any pictures or selﬁ  es to see if they recognize a man who resembles the suspect’s description, Tobias said. 
The suspect has been described as being 
an overweight black man between 6 feet and 6 feet 6 inches tall, who spoke through his teeth with a protruding lower jaw and pursed lips. The woman told police the man’s speech was slow and that his gram-mar was poor. 
Tobias said residents should stay vigi-
lant and remain aware. 
“The biggest safety tip is just to double 
check to make sure your residence is secure and have a way to call for help if needed,” Tobias said. GPD: Intruder hovered 
over sleeping woman
By Sara Marino 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF administrators, concerned students and 
Gainesville city commissioners will come to-
gether today to stage an “intervention.”
After controversy in June and July, UF’s Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs announced that 
among renovation plans, the Institute of Black 
Culture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cul-tures — known as La Casita — will remain two separate buildings.
Members of the IBC and La Casita pushed 
back against plans to merge the institutes into one “U”-shaped building. Students from both groups argued that joining the buildings would dishonor the entirely separate cultures and his-
tories.
Although the MCDA’s decision to keep the 
buildings separate was a victory for many stu-dents involved, some believe the department 
sidestepped student opinions in creating new project teams to oversee the upcoming renova-tions. 
Christopher Wilde, a UF microbiology and 
cell science senior and former ambassador for La Casita, said he’s attending the event to ex-press his concerns regarding the MCDA’s lack 
of transparency. 
“There was no need to create a new project 
team,” the 21-year-old said. “They just wanted to get rid of the employment committee who 
were outspoken or who did not go with the ﬂ  ow.”
The “intervention” will take place today from 
3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at 200 E. University Ave. Some of the notable speakers attending include City Commissioners Charles Goston, David Arreola and Harvey Budd as well as Kim Pace, the as-sistant vice president of Student Affairs.MCDA renovation plans 
continue to stir controversy The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORJust another Wasserman Schultz scandal
Last Monday, Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s congressio-
nal information technology staffer, Imran Awan, was arrested at Washington Dulles International Airport by FBI agents before fleeing the U.S. for Pakistan. While Awan was accused of bank fraud for $283,000, 
a serious felony offense, it may be the least serious crime he has committed.
Awan began his congressional IT work in 2004 for New 
York Congressman Gregory Meeks before being hired the next year by Wasserman Schultz. Not only was Awan hired after being charged with a DUI a month prior and a public drunkenness charge after a month on the job (offenses that would easily preclude one from working as a congressional staffer), but he was paid four times the $40,000 salary a 
staffer usually receives. He also managed to put his wife, 
two brothers and sister-in-law on the congressional payroll during his tenure, with his youngest brother earning more than $100,000 at 20 years old.
While being employed full time by Wasserman Schultz, 
Awan ran a car dealership, “Cars International A” (CIA), which he bankrupted after stealing merchandise. He and his wife had also been accused of life insurance fraud and extortion. In normal circumstances, these offenses would 
prompt termination, especially for an IT staffer who earns 
four times what he should.
During his 13-year-tenure (12 of those with Wasser-
man Schultz), Awan had access to nearly every computer in Congress via its computer network, including those on the Senate Foreign Relations and Intelligence Commit-tee, which possess invaluable information regarding U.S. national security. According to investigators, Awan stole computer equipment, transferred files to external servers 
and accessed the congressional network without any supe-
rior’s knowledge (except possibly Wasserman Schultz’s). He went 12 years without raising any eyebrows.
The FBI began investigating the Awans in October 2016. 
They remained on the congressional payroll. On Jan. 18, Awan, well aware of the FBI activity, defrauded the Con-gressional Federal Credit Union out of $283,000. Those funds were wired directly to Pakistan. On Feb. 28, all family members, other than Awan and his wife, were fired. Sur-prisingly, both Awan and his wife, Alvi, remained on Was-serman Schultz’s payroll, despite being unable to perform their jobs (their access to the Capitol computer network was terminated months prior). Wasserman Schultz claimed 
they were only investigated because of “Islamophobia” and 
refused to acknowledge the criminal investigation. She con-tinued to abet the family, including supplying them a laptop with access to the Capitol network, demanding the return of this same laptop after it was found by federal investiga-tors, invoking a constitutional privilege to keep them from searching the laptop and even threatening Capitol Police.
Alvi fled the country with the family’s three daughters 
March 3. Despite being accosted by the FBI, she was al-
lowed to fly to Pakistan with $12,400, without a currency 
transportation report (which are required with cash trans-portations of more than $10,000). The FBI knew she would not be returning to the U.S. and inexplicably let her go. Un-fortunately for the Awans, and fortunately for U.S. citizens, Awan was unable to do the same.
Awan was still receiving his taxpayer-funded salary 
when he was arrested last Monday.  Altogether, the family was able to “earn” upwards of 4 million taxpayer dollars 
over their 13 years of “employment.”  While investigators 
are trying to get around Wasserman Schultz’s attempts to stall the investigation, her behavior begs the question of why she would go through so much to help the Awan fam-ily. What does a congresswoman as powerful as former Democratic Party Chair Wasserman Schultz have to gain from supporting and defending a lowly IT staffer?
Unfortunately for the American people, as long as the 
media remains focused on the baseless Russia collusion sto-
ry, we may never know why Wasserman Schultz behaved 
the way she did. When considering their questionable past and association with corrupt public officials, it seems obvi-ous that the Awans were, at best, up to something mali-cious. At worst, they may have undermined American na-tional security.
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column appears on 
Tuesdays.We applaud GPD for 
its respectful stance
On July 28, Gainesville Police spoke out against po-
lice brutality and their take on the flippant remarks 
made by President Donald Trump regarding the issue. 
During a speech made in Long Island, New York, the president spoke to local police officers about MS-13, 
a local gang. One piece of advice he had for the officers was “Please don’t be too nice” to crime suspects.
GPD was less than pleased with this ideology. 
Tweets posted by GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias 
about the statements made by Trump have gone viral over the 
past several days.
Tobias tweeted from the GPD Twitter account saying “The 
@POTUS made remarks today that endorsed and condoned police brutality. GPD rejects these remarks and continues to 
serve with respect.” 
He then tweeted from his personal account saying, “I’m a 
cop. I do not agree with or condone @POTUS remarks today on police brutality. Those that applauded and cheered should 
be ashamed.” He also quoted the original tweet posted from the GPD account, confirming he was granted permission to 
post the opinionated statement.
The tweets received thousands of retweets, favorites and 
responses. Some commending GPD for their courage to speak out against Trump’s statements. Others showed extreme con-
tempt toward GPD’s stance and claimed the tweets were disre-spectful to the president.
We at the Alligator would like to applaud GPD and Tobias 
for their outspoken opinion on the matter. Police brutality is nothing that should be condoned nor should it be encouraged 
by the president.
Many people began to argue that the president never out-
wardly said he condones or supports police brutality. We re-spectfully disagree and are appalled by the fact this is even a 
topic of debate.
Everything the president says is heard and digested by mil-
lions of Americans, and he should know better than to speak in a way that has even the slightest chance of encouraging events that could endanger the lives of American people — or 
any people for that matter.
No matter the criminal or severity of their crime, no one 
should be treated as less than a human, nor should they be physically harmed by police officers. Oftentimes, incidents of 
police brutality happen before an arrest is made and before a suspect is proven to be guilty of their crime in a court of 
law. This leads to the endangerment of innocent people and 
increases the fear many people have toward the police.
This leads to a less safe nation overall.
Police officers risk their lives every day for our safety, and 
they deserve to be seen as what they are — caring and pro-
tective public servants. They should not be feared, and they 
should not be thought of in a negative way if they were to use 
more aggressive measures when making arrests. 
We believe by giving officers the go ahead to increase ag-
gression and force, fear and negative stigma around the police will only inflate. When people are scared to approach officers and scared to seek help from the police, we become less safe 
and lose the impact that police departments work so hard each 
day to create for us.
Once again, we thank you, GPD. You and Tobias have done 
a phenomenal job defending our freedom and our safety while also keeping the integrity of police officers intact.
Column
Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos 
announced last week her intentions to roll back several Obama-era pro-
tections against sexual assault on 
college campuses. These changes 
embody a misguided attempt at gender equality that will directly harm survivors of 
sexual assault.  
Speciﬁ  cally, the department took aim 
against a 2011 “Dear Colleague” letter dis-
tributed to universities by the Obama admin-istration, which instituted a relaxed eviden-
tiary standard for sexual assault cases within 
universities.
The “Dear Colleague” letter urged schools 
to adopt a “preponderance of the evidence” 
standard — meaning that schools must le-
gally only be 50.1 percent, or mostly, sure that the accused is guilty in order to take disciplinary action, unlike in criminal courts, which require certainty of guilt beyond a rea-
sonable doubt.
The intent behind this relaxation is clear. 
The overwhelming majority of sexual as-
saults are never tried in criminal courts, 
mainy because of insufﬁ  cient evidence. It’s nearly impossible to successfully prosecute 
someone for rape — only .6 percent of rap-ists are incarcerated in the U.S. The “Dear 
Colleague” letter attempted to remedy this 
dissonance in part by lessening the standard for conviction in non-criminal, disciplinary hearings and allowing more opportunities 
for justice outside of the legal system.
Many, DeVos among them, balk at such 
blatantly unequal policy. Under the prepon-
derance of the evidence standard, schools hold the accused to different standards than 
the justice system. Many feel that men (and 
they are overwhelmingly men) who are un-fairly accused face life-altering consequences if they are expelled from a university for as-
sault — even if they are never charged with 
a crime.
To avoid the tragedy of the falsely ac-
cused, DeVos seeks to reinstitute a higher standard of evidence for schools.
The “preponderance of the evidence” 
standard was established for a reason. The criminal justice system is naturally weighted against rape survivors, and the protections 
put in place on campuses allow schools greater freedom in assigning guilt and inno-
cence.
The objection to these regulations origi-
nate with the idea that women often falsely report rape. Struck down again and again, this idea continues to propagate the dis-course surrounding sexual assault. Setting 
aside the sexist framework that produces this 
mentality, the reality of false reporting is rare enough to make a falsely convicted rapist al-most entirely ﬁ  ctitious. And yet, this is who DeVos seeks to protect.  
Right now, we have a federal govern-
ment that prioritizes the accused over accus-ers, and the Department of Education — in a misguided attempt at establishing equal 
treatment — has tipped the scales once more 
in the favor of the accused. This decision, if successfully enacted, will have direct and disastrous consequences for college women around the country — including those at the 
University of Texas.
Nationwide, 94 percent of victims decline 
to report. Many do so because they do not 
believe that the justice system can help them 
— and they are right. At UT, only 32 per-cent of victims told anyone at all. Of those, 
8 percent told a university or police ofﬁ  cial. That means only 2.5 percent of victims are 
disclosing to someone with disciplinary au-
thority.
UT maintains a preponderance of the 
evidence standard for rape cases, and it is 
unclear if the school will retain that stan-
dard if the Department of Education changes course. But the message sent to survivors, at UT and across the country, by raising the burden of proof would once more illustrate 
where our priorities lie — and they’re not 
with the survivors.
Loosening the standard of evidence en-
ables schools to act when they are conﬁ  dent 
in someone’s guilt but lack the evidence to 
convince a court of law. And yes, it disen-franchises the accused. But that disenfran-chisement — combined with the marginal likelihood of a false accusation — is incal-
culably outweighed by the beneﬁ  ts to survi-
vors.
A version of this column written by Liz 
Anderson originally ran in the Daily Texan.TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
August 26, 2017
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
Department of Education decides to protect assailants over survivors8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.auto repair shop
$20 Oil Change up to 4qts
We carry car, truck and trailer tires 
Four new tires gets free alignment
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By T aylor Norberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF students were among 
29 others nationwide to be offered 
the Wallace-Carver Fellowship this Summer.
Amaleah and Isaac Mirti were 
selected for the fellowship, which invites college students to partici-pate in life science research in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Amaleah, a 21-year-old UF bio-
chemistry and molecular biology and history senior, was placed at the Western Human Nutrition Re-search Center at the University of California, Davis. Her brother, Isaac, a 19-year-old UF statistics 
and economics sophomore, was 
placed at the Foreign Agricultural Service in Washington, D.C.
Under Dr. Brian Bennett, Ama-
leah said she helped with an experi-ment on mice to see how their diet affects what their genes will do with the nutrients that are consumed.
Isaac said he facilitated an anal-
ysis project that looks at products being traded internationally.
“I’ve learned that a nation’s se-
curity as a whole is greatly at risk if people are not secure with their food,” he said.
Amaleah said the two were in-
troduced to the importance of food security by growing up on an or-ganic farm in Gainesville and par-ticipating in the local farmers mar-ket.
“I would hope that in the future, 
every person in the world has ac-cess to the food they need and has an average, healthy lifestyle,” she 
said.
Isaac said the two would both 
like to follow in their father’s foot-
steps by eventually joining the Peace Corps. He said they hope to help people around the world have better access to food.
Amaleah said she hopes an in-
ternship like this will give her a dif-ferent perspective that she can take with her on her future endeavors.
“I could see how this internship 
will connect with what I plan to do in the future, because it is impor-tant to see how agriculture goes into many ﬁ  elds because it’s one 
of three basic human needs,” she 
said.
Isaac said working with his sis-
ter on a farm gave the two a special bond, and he said she’s the perfect role model.
“At UF we eat Krishna a lot to-
gether, and sometimes I kind of just barge into her house,” he said.
After the internship is com-
pleted, Amaleah will return to Gainesville for another semester at UF, while Isaac will prepare for a Fall and Spring exchange program at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland.
“I can’t wait to see my sister 
in a couple of weeks,” Isaac said. “We’re usually in different coun-tries doing something.”
Two UF students interned at USDA through fellowshipBy Marcela Astudillo
Alligator Contributing Writer
A daughter and her mother were 
labeled heroes after reporting a lost 3-year-old boy in a Walmart parking lot last week.
Just before noon July 28 in the 
Gainesville Walmart Supercenter parking lot, located at 1800 NE 12th Ave., Katrice Miller and her mother, Janice Hamilton, saw what looked like a lost child sitting on the curb. Next to him was a man on a bicycle and a man in a vehicle, Miller said.
“I didn’t know what was going 
on, but my motherly instincts told 
me to approach the situation,” Mill-
er said. “The boy looked lost and confused.”
Miller said she saw the man in 
the vehicle getting out to reach for the boy, spurring her to approach the men and ask if they were related 
to the child.
Miller said the man on the bi-
cycle told her he didn’t know the 
child, and he found him walking alone on a street while biking in a nearby neighborhood. She said the man wasn’t carrying a phone with him at the time, so he went to ﬁ  nd help for the child at Walmart.
The man in the vehicle told 
Miller the bicyclist had originally ap-proached him for help, Miller said.
Neither of the men had reported 
the lost child to the police.
Miller took the boy to her car and 
called 911 at 11:45 a.m., she said. The men drove away ﬁ  ve minutes after Miller and her mother arrived.
The 3-year-old boy told Miller 
his name and nothing else, she said. They gave him a bottle of water to drink and cleaned him with a towel.“I’m glad I went back to ask 
what was going on,” Miller said. “If I hadn’t, who knows what could’ve happened. If it was my child, I would’ve wanted someone to do the same.”
Lt. Matt Nechodom of Gainesville 
Police said he arrived at the scene with four other ofﬁ  cers. Miller, Hamilton and the boy were waiting 
in a car.
Miller and Hamilton stayed until 
his mother arrived.
Nechodom said because the two 
men left before police arrived, nei-
ther of them could be identiﬁ  ed.
“We don’t know the intent of the 
two individuals,” Nechodom said. “We can only say we’re glad these 
women arrived when they did.”
Nechodom said the mother of the 
boy, Candice Kinney, told police she 
didn’t know the boy was missing, and her 16-year-old niece was asked 
to baby-sit the child while Kinney 
was at work.  
Nechodom said the boy was sup-
posed to be staying at his grand-mother’s house, a block away from where he was located. The niece left the house to run an errand, as-suming there was someone at home watching the boy.
“His mother was crying when 
she got there,” Nechodom said. “As a parent of three, I couldn’t imagine the relief she felt knowing he was unscathed after all of this.”
Nechodom said Kinney thanked 
the two women for reporting the child to the police.
“It just goes to show how kids 
can get around on their own, no matter how young they are,” Necho-dom said. “It’s important to know where your kids are at all times.”GPD shared a photo of the two 
women on their Facebook page, where Kinney learned who saved the boy before she drove to the scene.
The photo received more than 
2,700 likes, 230 shares and more than 200 comments on Facebook. Part of the caption read, “These two ladies are exactly what’s right in our 
world.”
Nechodom said Alachua County 
Social Services is investigating the 
case. He said he believes the issue was caused by a miscommunication between the grandmother and niece.
“A small boy left the house on 
his own, was walking on the street and still managed to make it home 
safe; luckily he ran into two guard-
ian angels,” Nechodom said. “If this isn’t a blessing, I don’t know what is.”
Women help lost 3-year-old boy in Walmart parking lotBy Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
The brothers of Alpha Phi Al-
pha’s Theta Sigma chapter don’t 
do their work with the intention of 
winning awards.
However, an award is what they 
received when they were named 
chapter of the year at the frater-
nity’s international conference in 
Baltimore. 
The chapter of the year award 
takes into account the chapter’s 
community service work, GPAs, 
corporate partners and leadership 
positions, among other qualiﬁ  ca-
tions. 
Mohamad Merilan, the chap-
ter’s president, said the brothers 
just enjoyed doing their work and 
being recognized on an interna-
tional level at the July 16 confer-ence was just a nice addition.
“It has really been a series of 
attributes that have led up to this 
international accolade,” he said. “It 
was so surreal.”
Merilan said his chapter’s focus 
on community service and their 
high GPAs were what helped se-
cure the award. 
He said one of their largest ser-
vice projects was called “My Broth-
er’s Keeper,” in which chapter 
members would support the wid-
ows of brothers who had passed away. 
Merilan also said the fraternity 
registered more than 100 people 
to vote before the 2016 election 
and maintained an average GPA of 3.179, the highest of all Alpha Phi Alpha chapters. 
Winning chapter of the year 
comes only two years after UF re-instated the fraternity in 2015. The chapter was suspended because of 
serious physical hazing and visible 
injuries in 2012, according to Alli-gator archives. 
However, in its two years since returning to campus, the fraternity 
has won a collection of accolades. 
Merilan said he partially attributes 
this return success to the work of their adviser, William Atkins, who also serves as the Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs director.
“(Atkins) has been the coach 
behind everything,” Merilan said. 
“It’s really that passion that he in-stilled in us to drive that passion up in the group.”
Moving forward, he said he 
hopes the momentum from win-ning chapter of the year will help the UF chapter expand its commu-nity service ventures because com-munity partners will be more will-ing to work with them now. 
“We want to be the organiza-
tion that takes that step forward to provide change in the community,” he said.
Brothers like Brendan “BJ” 
Jonassiant, former vice president of the chapter, were excited when it was announced that the chapter had won.
“For me, I believe Alpha Phi 
Alpha is the greatest frat in the world, and to be acknowledged as the greatest chapter of the greatest fraternity in the world is something that I’m very, very proud of,” he said.
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Now accepting payments at Western Union locations including Publix, Walgreens and more.Avoid the crowd and take care 
of your service changes at 
gru.com/welcome.THIS IS
Visit wu.com or scan here 
for participating Western Union Agent locations, including: Publix, SunTrust, Walgreens, Winn Dixie
Bring your GRU account number with you to 
the agent location. 
Fill out the BLUE section of the 
Western Union form (or at Walgreens, follow the screens on the kiosk) and complete your 
transaction with the store clerk  
A receipt will be provided to confirm your 
transaction, use the MTCN number on your receipt to track your transaction
$1.50 Money Transfer fee applies Pay your GRU bill in cash at Western Union® 
Agent locations.
ONLINE | MOBILE | IN STORE
©2015 Western Union Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All other logos, trademarks, service marks and trade names 
referenced in this material are the property of their respective owners.
Courtesy to the Alligator 
The brothers of the Theta Sigma chapter of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity attended the international conference in Baltimore on July 16. They won chapter of the year for the second time, with the ﬁ  rst time being in 2010.
CAMPUS
UF’s Alpha Phi Alpha wins chapter of the year awardTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
WINDSOR PARK 2BR/2BA CONDO
Over $22,000 spent on remodel. Tile bath, wood floor throughout. New kitchen, new baths. 727-815-2219     8-1-17-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-14-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-14-25-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
WANTED:
SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT ORONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET.1BR garage apt, w/ garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-1-17-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    8-1-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. In 2016, Detroit’s Miguel Cabrera 
became the fifth-youngest player (33 
years old) to reach 2,400 career hits. 
Who was younger?
2. The New York Yankees set a 
major-league record in 2015 by hav-
ing seven pitchers with at least 100 
strikeouts. Name five of them.
3. Name the last time before the 
2015 season (Carolina) that a team 
scored at least 49 points in an NFL conference title game.
4. In 2016, the ACC set a record by 
having six men’s basketball teams in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tourna-ment. Name them.
5. When was the last time before the 
2016-17 NHL season that the Edmon-ton Oilers reached the Stanley Cup playoffs?
6. Name the first woman to drive in 
Formula One racing.
7. Who was the first back-to-back 
gold medalist in singles in Olympic men’s tennis history?
Answers
1. Ty Cobb (31 years old), Rogers 
Hornsby (32), Hank Aaron (32) and Robin Yount (33).
2. Michael Pineda (156 strikeouts), 
Masahiro Tanaka (139), CC Sabathia (137), Dellin Betances (131), Nathan 
Eovaldi (121), Adam Warren (104) 
and Andrew Miller (100).
3. In the AFC Championship Game 
after the 1990 season, Buffalo scored 51 points against the Los Angeles Raiders.
4. Miami, Fla., Duke, North Carolina, 
Notre Dame, Virginia and Syracuse.
5. It was the 2005-06 season.6. Maria Teresa de Filippis, in 1958.7. Andy Murray of Great Britain.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 31, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
1.  ____ audience
1.  Like the Everglades 5.  Conscious 
2.  In the dark6.  Similiar
3.  Catalogue 7.  ____ key
4.  CalmOSUDTI
PWSAYMAKEAW
KIALE
ANAWERU
EEIMITZLEETDE
NERSEEANSWERS: 1A-Studio  5A-Awake  6A-Alike  7A-Delete
1D-Swampy  2D-Unaware  3D-Itemize  4D-Serene  B-Mark Twain8-1-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “Get your facts first, and then 
you can distort them as much as you please.”
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Pose in yoga
studios
6 Personal
histories
11 Belly
14 Bus stop15 Portion out16 Bear, in
Barcelona
17 *Quick checkout
choice
19 Rower’s blade
20 Wall St. index21 Molecule part22 Longtime first
name in morning
talk shows
24 Wide assortment
26 “Sure thing!”27 Flowering shrubs
associated with
Augusta NationalGolf Club
30 Pocahontas’
husband John
31 Little women
32 Solo34 Asian noodle
soup
37 “__-dokey!”38 Hollywood’s
crème de lacrème ... andwhere to find theends of theanswers tostarred clues?
39 Raindrop sound40 Part of LGBTQ41 Desert plant used
to make tequila
42 Resort island
near Venezuela
43 Eyed wolfishly
45 Forest-scented
cleaning product
47 Take the __: risk
it
49 Not proficient in50 Scoundrel51 Surrealist Joan52 Govt. workplace
watchdog
56 “I figured it out!”57 *Wedding gown
attachment
60 Beaver’s creation61 In a snit62 High-end
chocolatier
63 Dollar bill
64 Ease up65 Soap unitsDOWN
1 Yemen port
2 Like hunks and
knockouts
3 Cellphone
downloads
4 “Honest, it’s true!”5 Gobbled up6 Macaroni side dish7 Brass or bronze
8 Slender
9 Heavy weight
10 Like sealed
medical supplies
11 *Social
networking site
with a math sign
in its logo
12 Federal
humanitarian org.
13 Upper body18 “The Talk” 
co-host Gilbert
23 Tiny toymaker25 High-__ graphics26 Refuses to27 Really excited28 Virus of concern
at the RioOlympics
29 *“Want to try it?”30 New Year’s Day
floral procession
33 Actress Ullmann35 Boxcar hopper36 October
birthstone
38 “The African
Queen”
screenwriterJames
39 South African city
where Mandela
was inaugurated
41 Math with x’s
42 Santa __ winds
44 Bearded
grassland grazer46 Superstar
47 Madrid art
museum
48 Actress Lindsay49 Bathroom fixture
51 Actress Kunis of
“Bad Moms”
53 Went under
54 __-and-seek55 Picnic critters58 Curved bone59 Attention from Dr.
Mom
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/01/1708/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 15 ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Big names dealt at MLB trade deadline
Wednesday's MLB trade deadline saw Rangers starting pitcher Yu Darvish 
sent to the Dodgers, Athletics starting pitcher Sonny Gray moved to the 
Yankees and Twins reliever Brandon Kintzler shipped to the Nationals.Was Chris Chiozza's buzzer 
beater against Wisconsin in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA T ournament the best sports moment at UF this year? Read on Pg. 14
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsEvery Sunday during football season while I was still at home, my Dad 
and I would sit down in the living room after our weekly run to Costco and watch that afternoon’s NFL games.
There we were, 
lounging on the coach with a footlong hot dog in one hand and our laptops displaying fantasy football scoreboards in the other. 
Our living room had two 
TVs, one to watch the New York Jets and the other to watch NFL RedZone.
While we were never in a 
league together, my passion for fantasy football stems from my Dad.
In my ﬁ  rst year playing, he 
helped set my lineup every week.
Ok, most of the time he did the 
entire thing for me.
But since that ﬁ  rst season back 
in eighth grade, I’ve gotten more involved with fantasy football, going as far as joining a dynasty league last year. For those who don’t know, a dynasty league is where you retain the same players you had on your team from the previous season. There is a draft each year for any free agents and rookies in the league.
The prize 
for winning: a championship belt and whatever money is 
leftover.
My dad also has a league he 
jokingly calls his “nerd league,” where he and his buddies meet up and draft teams to engage in some friendly competition. The ﬁ  rst and second place ﬁ  nishers earn a trophy. 
If I could recommend two 
things for a group of friends that are looking to get more interested in football, the ﬁ  rst would be to have someone create a fantasy league.
With football season 
approaching fast, now would be the perfect time to do so. It puts you in the same shoes as an NFL general manager, allowing you to draft, trade, release and sign players like a professional team 
Fantasy football the key to becoming more personally invested in the NFLJakes on a Plane / Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJake
The Associated Press
Arizona Cardinals running back David Johnson scores against the Green Bay Packers on Dec. 27, 2015, at University of Phoenix Stadium. Johnson led all NFL players in ESPN fantasy football points last season.
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Less than ﬁ  ve weeks remain 
until Florida kicks off the 2017 
regular season against Michigan 
at AT&T Stadium. The Gators 
enter this year as back-to-back SEC East champions, notching 13 conference wins under coach Jim 
McElwain since he took over the 
program in 2015. As always, UF’s 
success on the gridiron this fall 
will largely depend on its roster, 
a group of players featuring both seasoned veterans and unestablished newcomers. Here is the position preview for players 
set to play on the defensive line 
at Florida this year:
Players: Luke Ancrum (R-
So.), Taven Bryan (R-Jr.), Kyree Campbell (Fr.), Zachary Carter (Fr.), Khairi Clark (R-Jr.), Antonneous Clayton (So.), Elijah Conliffe (Fr.), Keivonnis Davis (Jr.), Richerd Desir-Jones (R-So.), CeCe Jefferson (Jr.), 
Jachai Polite (So.), Jordan Sherit 
(R-Sr.), Tedarrell Slaton (Fr.), Jordan Smith (R-Fr.), Jabari Zuniga (R-So.)
Florida is full of depth on 
the defensive line and ﬁ  gures to have anywhere from eight to 10 players see the ﬁ  eld on a 
consistent basis.
Junior CeCe Jefferson 
headlines the group with a 
career stat line of 59 tackles, 15 tackles for loss, ﬁ  ve sacks and 
seven quarterback hurries. The 
6-foot-1, 260-pounder can play both inside and outside and is projected to be selected in the 
middle rounds of next year’s NFL 
Draft, according to Fox Sports.
Redshirt sophomore Jabari Zuniga wasted no time making a name for himself last season as well. After spending all of 2015 on the sidelines, Zuniga burst 
onto the scene with 25 tackles, 
8.5 tackles for loss, one forced fumble and a team-leading ﬁ  ve sacks and 11 quarterback hurries.
Five other returning players 
on the defensive line registered at least 10 tackles and one sack last year: redshirt senior Jordan 
Sherit, redshirt junior Taven 
Bryan, redshirt junior Khairi Clark, junior Keivonnis Davis and sophomore Jachai Polite.
The Gators also have several 
new faces set to join the team this season in freshmen Kyree Campbell, Zachary Carter, Elijah Conliffe and Tedarrell Slaton. 
Carter and Conliffe are expected 
to be used as edge rushers this  2017 Florida Gators Position Previews: Defensive Line
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
CeCe Jefferson celebrates a play during Florida's 30-3 win against Iowa 
at the Outback Bowl on Jan. 2, 2017, at Raymond James Stadium.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERALLIGATOR AWARDS
Staff Report
 
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which UF 
sports moment was the best of the 2016-17 season. Sports 
writers Mari Faiello, Andrew 
Huang and Morgan McMullen join alligatorSports editors Dylan Dixon and Jake Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion to debate the five nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
 
Dixon: Chiozza’s shot an 
instant classic
March 24, 2017, definitely 
won’t be forgotten by Gators fans 
anytime soon.
The Florida men’s basketball 
team, facing Wisconsin at Madison Square Garden in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament, 
found itself down by two points 
with four seconds remaining in overtime.
Unless you’ve been living 
under a rock over the past four months, you surely know what happened next.
Chris Chiozza, UF’s speedy 
backup point guard, received the 
inbounds pass from Canyon Barry 
and took it the length of the floor before heaving a running three-pointer as time expired.
Ball game. Gators 84, Badgers 
83.
As a journalist covering 
athletics at the University of Florida, it’s my ethical 
responsibility to be impartial 
towards the Gators and always watch their games as a neutral observer rather than a fan. But even I will admit, Chiozza’s 
buzzer beater had me jump from 
my seat and shout in awe.
It was just that incredible.Between the level of difficulty 
he faced in getting the shot off in only four seconds to how crucial it was in keeping UF’s season alive, there’s no way there was a more iconic moment at Florida 
this season.
Sure, winning national 
championships in three different 
sports is nice, but how many plays did the Gators have this year that brought people to their feet all over the country the way Chiozza’s did. Absolutely none.
I rest my case.
Dreilinger: Dyson saved the 
day for UF in CWS
For a team up 1-0 in the College 
World Series Finals, Florida’s 
baseball team was backed into a corner.
Ace right-hander Alex Faedo 
threw seven shutout innings against TCU three days prior, making him unable to pitch again 
for the rest of the tournament. No. 
2 starter Brady Singer then threw a record-setting 12 strikeouts in seven-plus innings of work in Game 1 against LSU, making him unavailable as well.
To make matters worse, the 
Tigers would be throwing their Friday night starter, Alex Lange, if 
the series went to a third game, so 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan knew he had to pull out all of the stops.
That began with starting 
freshman pitcher Tyler Dyson.
Dyson emerged on the scene in 
Florida’s super regional matchup against Wake Forest, allowing only two hits and striking out 10  
batters in two appearances that 
weekend.
His heroics in those games 
secured UF’s trip to Omaha.
His heroics in Game 2 of the 
CWS Finals helped the Gators win their first national championship.
Dyson stepped on the mound 
for just his second career start 
and delivered the performance 
of a lifetime. Tossing a career-high six innings, the Bradenton, Florida, native allowed just three hits and one run. 
But what makes this moment 
the most memorable in 2016-17 is that if it wasn’t for Dyson’s performance, the Gators probably 
wouldn’t have won their first What was Florida’s best moment of the 2016-17 season?
The Associated Press
Chris Chiozza takes the final shot of Florida’s 84-83 win against Wisconsin in the Sweet 16 of the 
NCAA T ournament on March 24, 2017, at Madison Square Garden.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
would.
The second thing I would 
recommend is to add a twist.
For my dad and I, our leagues 
are just like most in America, with 
the winner earning something of 
value. But for others, it gets way more intense.
Case in point: the Tattoo League. 
The person who has the worst team gets a tattoo designed by the other owners and has it placed somewhere on their body.
The most famous one would 
have to be the Justin Bieber tattoo in 2012, which was inked on the loser’s arm and said “Fantasy Loser 2012 #yoloswag.”
While I’m not saying your league 
should force the worst team's owner to make his body a canvas for the enjoyment of others, what I am saying is to make a league that is fun, has high stakes and gives everyone a good laugh at the end of the season.
You don’t even have to play for 
money, just enjoy the competition.
Fantasy football was the best 
thing I could’ve done to get me more interested in the NFL, so for those looking to do the same, follow my path.
Jake Dreilinger is the assistant 
sports editor of the Alligator. His columns appear frequently on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 13
fall, while Slaton and Campbell are tabbed to 
play inside at tackle.
Predicted Starters: Bryan, Clark, Jefferson, 
Zuniga
UF will do so much shufﬂ  ing and rotating 
on the defensive line every couple of snaps, it doesn’t matter which players open the game on the ﬁ  eld and which ones don’t.
However, this foursome is currently the most likely combination to get the starting nod on Sept. 2 against Michigan.
Jefferson and Zuniga should separate 
themselves from the pack as the two most consistent defensive ends on the roster, while Bryan and Clark possess the experience needed to replace last year’s NFL-bound starters, Caleb Brantley and Joey Ivie, on the inside. 
Davis, Polite and Sherit are locks to receive 
signiﬁ  cant playing time as well.
The biggest questions then become which 
freshmen will step up and earn a spot in the 
line’s rotation, and can sophomore Antonneous 
Clayton rebound from a disappointing ﬁ  rst season in Gainesville.
Clayton came to Florida last fall as the 
No. 27 overall recruit in the Class of 2016, 
according to Rivals, but only managed to 
register three tackles and three quarterback hurries in ﬁ  ve appearances.
The Vienna, Georgia, native has the 
potential to be a great pass rusher for the 
Gators and showed improvements in his game 
this spring. Only time will tell whether he’s ready to produce at a high level for UF in 2017.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 13UF could see eight to 10 players in its D-line rotation
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida's defensive line gets set prior to a play during UF's 16-10 win against LSU on Nov. 19, 2016, at Tiger Stadium. The Gators 
generated ﬁ  ve tackles for loss in the victory.
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University Avenue10% oﬀ for
Alumni
352-373-6500
2435 SW 13th St.
NCAA title in program history.
UF was dealing with a limited 
bullpen, Faedo couldn’t pitch, 
Singer already played, Michael Byrne was reserved for late-
game situations only and Austin 
Langworthy was in left ﬁ  eld.
No one else had really stepped 
up until Dyson did.
His play allowed Florida to buy 
some time until it was ready to put Byrne in for the save.
Without Dyson, UF would 
most likely still be looking for that 
ﬁ  rst title.
Faiello: Little moments 
added up for men’s track and 
ﬁ  eld
It’s difﬁ  cult to pick a single 
moment from this year and declare it as the best in UF sports. There were many instances this season 
where Gators fans rallied behind 
their athletes as they reached for new titles and records. 
But men’s track and ﬁ  eld had 
the ultimate moment when it claimed its second consecutive national championship in outdoor competition.
The 2017 NCAA Outdoor 
Championships was full of talent from rival schools across the nation, including Alabama, Texas A&M, Arkansas and many others. So of course, if Florida wanted to capture another title, standout performances would be pivotal.
Freshman Grant Holloway was 
among those individuals with a solid showing in Eugene, Oregon. 
He made Division I history by 
claiming the title in the 110-meter 
hurdles the same year he secured 
the indoor 60-meter hurdles title.
His contributions helped 
Florida earn its fourth outdoor 
national title in the past six seasons. He also helped the Gators mark their 19th top-two ﬁ  nish in 30 NCAA championship meets under head coach Mike Holloway.
Holloway might not be as 
hyped up as the athletes on men’s basketball and football, but he certainly had one of the best moments back in Oregon. 
Huang: Gators D-livered in 
epic fashion vs. LSU
I’m not sure how this one is 
even going to be close.
It’s been a long time since 
I’d seen an ending as dramatic as Florida’s goal-line stand to preserve a victory over LSU.
The implications of the game 
were huge. Florida was ravaged with injuries, playing what should have been a home game in Louisiana and needed the victory to clinch the SEC East for a second straight season.
Because of inclement weather 
from Hurricane Matthew, the originally scheduled meeting—an October home game for Florida—was postponed, setting off a well-
documented controversy as the 
two SEC foes tried to negotiate a rescheduling.
Eventually, Florida agreed 
to cancel its matchup against Presbyterian and travel to Baton Rouge on LSU’s original bye week.
Tensions were high all 
afternoon, and on the game’s ﬁ  nal possession the Tigers set up shop at their own 25-yard line, down 16-10 with 3:18 remaining.
Gators fans watched uneasily 
as LSU drove 74 yards to set up a last second crack at a touchdown.
It wasn’t meant to be, however.  
Florida stopped LSU at the Gators’ ﬁ  ve yard line, then again at the one.
Fourth down loomed, with just 
three feet between a Florida win 
and a near-certain loss.
LSU running back Derrius 
Guice took the handoff and ran 
into a wall of Gators dressed in orange from head to toe.  Guice fumbled, it was recovered by teammate Foster Moreau, but it was too late.
The vaunted Gators defense 
did just enough to pull out the win and deliver the ﬁ  nest sports moment at UF this year.
McMullen: Neel secured the 
Gators’ seventh national title
Any yahoo can put a ball in a basket from a couple dozen feet away. What if that basket threw the ball back at you? What if, during that exchange, you knew the fate of your team’s entire season rested with the result of 
your sparring with that basket 
through intense physical combat?
Ok ﬁ  ne, I’ll just come 
out and say it: Ingrid Neel’s championship-clinching match point against Stanford was by far the most satisfying moment of the athletic season. 
Sure, many of you are aware 
of high-ﬂ  ying antics and staunch, beefy defenses. But that’s what’s great about this moment: Only the truly dedicated of dedicated Gators witnessed this moment live. 
What you can relive on 
YouTube for eternity is this: Neel, an 18-year-old true freshman, 
competing against Stanford senior 
Taylor Davidson, in the third and deciding set of the NCAA Division I women’s tennis championship. It’s intense. It’s laser-focused energy.
To Neel, it was just a matter of 
time before Davidson’s ﬁ  nal shot sailed wide to her right.
Throw the racquet down. Go 
hug your teammates, Ingrid.
And you know what? There 
were no Gatorade showers. No major networks offering unending praise, no ooo-ing and ahh-ing crowds.
Just a team of eight Gators who 
capped off an amazing season by 
furthering their lead in UF’s all-
time NCAA Championship count.
Oh, and one very excited 
assistant coach. 
Which do you think was UF’s 
best sports moment of the 2016-17 season? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.
 
AWARDS,  from pg. 14Ingrid Neel clinched the Gators’ championship-winning point
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Florida’s women’s tennis team celebrates its seventh national championship in program history after 
defeating Stanford 4-1 on May 23, 2017, at the Dan Magill T ennis Complex.
