We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 129 THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
Gymnastics team preps for regionals
The Gators are using unique team ritual to 
keep them loose,  pg. 1 6
UF’s Aztec stone replica predicts apocalypse
The 24-ton calendar has been at UF since the ’70s,  pg. 4
Vera Bradley co-founder to speak at UF
She will speak today in the Reitz Union,  pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville city employee was arrested Tuesday for 
stealing more than $91,000 from the city, Gainesville Po-
lice said.
Natwaina Sharee Clark, 33, who worked for the 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department for 
nearly two years, used a credit card assigned to her by 
the department and a co-worker’s credit card to make 
$91,598 in fraudulent purchases, according to an arrest 
report. The purchases began in November 2015, three 
months after she was hired, and included gift cards and 
payments to other accounts.
When an audit was conducted, two city employees in 
the department realized it went over budget, according 
to the report. Clark’s purchases were discovered when 
the employees found receipts and department paperwork 
Clark submitted, police said. Ofﬁ  cers also found videos 
of Clark making some of the fraudulent purchases.
Detectives have uncovered 169 fraudulent purchas-es so far and searched her home 
Wednesday for items, ﬁ  nding mostly 
electronics, said GPD spokesperson 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. The investigation 
into Clark’s purchases is ongoing. 
Clark was ﬁ  red March 22 for vio-
lating the employee code of conduct, 
said Bob Woods, the city’s commu-
nication and marketing director. He 
said the city is also running an internal investigation into 
Clark’s purchases.
“The city is intent on using every tool possible to un-
cover the full extent of this,” Woods said.
Police arrested Clark on charges of grand theft schem-
ing to defraud and obtain property. Authorities took her 
to the Alachua County Jail, where she was released on 
a $20,000 bond. 
Clark could not be reached for comment.
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  G P D :  C i t y  e m p l o y e e  d e f r a u d e d  
department of more than $91,000THE FOUR ADDITIONAL 
DEGREES ARE ALL 
BACHELOR’S.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Come Fall, UF students en-
rolled in online-based programs 
will be offered a wider selection 
of majors, inching them closer to 
parity with on-campus students.
Students in Pathway to Cam-
pus Enrollment, a program in 
which they take 60 credits on-
line before transitioning to on-
campus classes, will be able to 
pursue a bachelor’s in ﬁ  ne arts 
degree in Fall, said Evangeline 
Cummings, the assistant provost 
and director of UF Online.
Additionally, three new ma-
jors will be added to the UF 
Online program, . A bachelor’s 
degree for ﬁ  re and emergency 
services, microbiology and cell 
science, and communication sci-
ences and disorders will be avail-
able to fully online students. 
An accounting minor will also 
be added.
“Online courses require a lot 
of engaging content,” she said. 
“So we only take on and bring 
in the ones that we deem of the 
highest quality.”
While on-campus students 
are offered about 150 majors, 
PaCE students and UF Online 
students are offered 52 and 18 
majors, respectively.
Cummings said the commu-
nication science major is one of 
the most popular majors, so UF 
hopes to accommodate more 
students and draw them into sci-
ence, technology, engineering and mathematics ﬁ  elds.
There will be a bachelor’s 
degree for business administra-
tion with eight possible special-
izations. The program has been 
available this Spring, but Cum-
mings said UF didn’t publicize it, 
so more students are expected to 
enroll in Fall.
“I think the additional offer-
ing, in particular with business 
with the specialization, will open 
up a ton of opportunities for stu-
dents,” Cummings said.
She said the business degree 
will be good for interdisciplinary 
studies and students coming in 
with credits from state colleges. 
The ﬁ  ne arts majors were 
added for PaCE students, be-
cause faculty in the department 
requested it.
“Our college of arts really 
wanted to welcome additional 
PaCE students, and their faculty 
were really happy to learn the 
students could come to campus 
for their art studios,” Cummings 
said.
Because art majors are based 
around studio time, Cummings 
said an exception will be made 
for PaCE students in these pro-
grams so they can complete stu-
dio time on campus. Seven ma-
jors fall under this degree.
Cummings said when deter-
mining which majors to place 
online, she considers which are 
easiest to adapt to that format 
and the cost of developing the 
program. UF’s student advisory 
council also inputs their opin-
ions. 
“We take their feedback real-
ly seriously, and we work to see  UF’s online students 
promised added 
majors for Fall termBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A day before her birthday, Tessa Pirkola 
won two front-row tickets for Lil Wayne’s up-
coming UF concert.
On Wednesday, Pirkola, a 20-year-old UF 
marketing sophomore, won the tickets and a 
meet-and-greet with the rapper ahead of his 
April 4 concert. As a part of an O’Connell Center promo-
tional event, three alligator piñatas were hid-
den around campus, with one containing the 
winning tickets, wrote Renee Musson, the 
O’Connell Center’s associate director, in an 
email. 
“This would be an opportunity to do some-
thing on campus that could generate a similar 
excitement to the experience you can get by at-
tending events within our building,” she said.Tickets for UF students cost between $31 
and $63, according to Alligator archives. 
Pirkola said she planned to skip the concert 
because of its ticket price. 
The piñatas were hidden by Norman Hall, 
the Baughman Center and Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium. Pirkola found the winning piñata by 
Norman. 
Once the O’Connell Center posted hints to 
the locations of the piñatas on social media, Pirkola hopped on her skateboard and rushed 
from Norman Hall to the Baughman Center, 
near Lake Alice. However, a “better luck next 
time” message was inside.
Pirkola saw someone received the same 
message at the stadium, so she raced back to 
Norman Hall — a 4-mile-long trip in total, she 
said. 
“I thought it was a cool way to get people 
involved,” Pirkola said. C a m p u s  s c a v e n g e r  h u n t  l e a d s  t o  t w o  L i l  W a y n e  t i c k e t s
Clark
SEE ONLINE,  PAGE 4Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
 FOR THE SOUL
About 15 people marched across campus on Wednesday evening as part of a monthly UF Black Affairs event 
called Catharsis for the Soul. They protested because students of color said they don’t feel comfortable at UF . Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Visiting Artist Lecture with 
Adam Brown 
The UF School of Art + Art 
History is proud to present visit-ing artist Adam Brown as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists 
Lecture Series today at 6 p.m. 
in Fine Arts Building B, Room 
103 (FAB 103). Brown’s visit is generously supported by contri-
butions from UF College of the 
Arts Council members Lois and Mark Rule, the UF Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere (Rothman Endowment), the UF Biodiversity Institute, the UF Genetics Institute (UFGI) and the UF Biology Department. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
University Galleries presents 
‘Currents 2017’University Galleries and student organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present “Currents 2017 — Perception: Color and Content” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until April 19. “Currents” is an annual nation-al juried exhibition co-juried by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. “Perception: Color and Content” is thematically focused on the idea of how perception of color can change the way content is seen. This important annual exhibition selects jurors and ad-dresses contemporary themes in ceramic art. “Currents 2017” will expand the educational ex-perience for students in UF’s School of Art + Art History and engage the public with color and content within contempo-rary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening reception are free and open to the public.
EACN 20th Annual Glow Run
The 20th Annual Equal Access Clinic 5K Race will be a “glow run” and will take place Saturday at 7 p.m. at the Southwest Recreation Center. The EACN is a network of stu-dent-run free health care clinics established by the UF College of Medicine. The clinics are made possible through the generous contributions of student and faculty volunteers, as well as funding from the community. Register for the EACN 5K Glow Run at equalaccess5k.itsyour-race.com. Registration will be $20 for children and $25 for adults for pre-entry until 11:59 p.m. Friday. Race-day entry will be $25 for children and $30 for adults.
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at 
all levels, including first-time 
dancers. Classes will take place 
in Dance Studio A in the Reitz 
Union on Sundays. The begin-ners class will start at 6:15 p.m., 
followed by an intermediate/
advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be 
sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, ballet, salsa shoes or even 
a pair of thick socks work just 
fine. If you have any questions, 
please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week, April 3 to April 7The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s Second Annual Graduate Student Appreciation Week. This weeklong event is designed to celebrate the accomplish-ments and contributions of more than 12,000 UF gradu-ate students. The week will showcase the work of UF’s graduate students and high-light the services they provide to the university and commu-nity through research, teaching and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, Graduate Wellness Day with the Counseling & Wellness Center, professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student or-ganization showcase, an ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring game. To learn more, please visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual ViolenceJoin Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, the UF Student Health Care Center and plan-ning partners as they Take Back the Night to demonstrate sup-port for sexual violence survi-vors, share stories and create a culture of care. The event will take place April 5 at 5:30 p.m. on Norman Field. It involves a 1-mile march around campus that ends with an open-mic event. There will be speakers, resources for survivors, free T-shirts, food and amazing per-formers. Learn more at face-book.com/StriveUF or email 
RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu.
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as 
Connecting the Living to the 
Dead
A historian of the Islamic world, 
France and medicine from 
McMaster University will give a free public lecture April 6 at 5:30 
p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 
100. Ellen Amster will discuss 
the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in precolonial Morocco. For Muslim pilgrims 
visiting the tombs of the saints, 
these holy bodies offered cures 
by linking heaven and Earth. These traditions and beliefs were challenged by French co-
lonialism and notions of science 
in the late 19th century and ear-
ly 20th century. This event is the seventh in an eight-part series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars and filmmakers explore unique cultural and historical confron-tations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION:
In a subheading of an article 
published March 29 titled "After 
student death, bicycle safety a 
focus," the Alligator incorrectly reported that 28 helmets were given out at a bicycle-safety 
event. Eighty helmets were given 
out.HIGH  88° LOW  62°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 129THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
ENDS TONIGHT AT 6 PM
www.TheAmazingGive.org
ANIMALS
Alachua Conservation Trust, Alachua County Humane Society, Gainesville Pet Rescue, 
Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses, Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue, Helping Hands Pet Rescue, HOrses Helping PEople, Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary, Operation Catnip, Puppy Hill Farm Animal Rescue
ARTS AND CULTURE
Cade Museum for Creativity + Invention, Dance Alive National Ballet, Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Civic Chorus, Gainesville Youth Chorus, Inc., The Hippodrome Theatre
COMMUNITY ADVOCACY
Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, Alachua Habitat for Humanity, Catholic Charities Gainesville, Center for Independent Living of North Central Florida, Child Advocacy Center, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Community Weatherization Coalition, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Friends of T acachale, Gainesville Community Ministry, Gainesville Opportunity Center, Gainesville Police Department, Haven 
Hospice, Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation, Partnership for Strong 
Families, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, River Phoenix Center for Peace-building, Sickle Cell Disease Association of Florida, Inc., Southwest Advocacy Group (SWAG), Special Olympics Florida, The Children’s Fund, The Guardian Foundation, Inc.
EDUCATION
The Independent Florida Alligator, Aces in Motion, Alachua Conservation Trust, AMIkids Gainesville, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Buchholz Academy of Entrepreneurship, Cade Museum for Creativity + Invention, Child Advocacy Center, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Dance Alive National Ballet, FCSW Foundation, Inc., Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Black Profession-
als, Gainesville Civic Chorus, Gainesville Community Ministry, Gainesville Youth 
Chorus, Inc., Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls Place, Inc., Healthy Families ACUB, 
Hippodrome Theatre, Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary, Junior Achievement of Alach-
ua County, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., Neighborhood Housing Development 
Corporation, North Florida Foundation for Research and Education, Inc., Operation 
Catnip, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rabel, Inc., Sickle 
Cell Disease Association of Florida, Inc., Southern Legal Council, Inc., Southwest Advo-cacy Group, The Einstein School, United Way of North Central Florida
EMERGENCY RESPONSE
Gainesville Police Department
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Buchholz Academy of Entrepreneurship, Gainesville Black Professionals, Junior Achievement of Alachua County
ENVIRONMENT
Alachua Conservation Trust, Cinema Verde, Community Weatherization Coalition, Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary, We Are Neutral
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
Aces in Motion, ACORN Clinic, Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, Girls on the Run of Alachua County, Haven Hospice, Healthy Families ACUB, Helping Hands Clinic, Meridian Behavioral Healthcare, NAMI Gainesville, North Florida Foundation for Research and Education, Inc., Penny Box App Giving Fund, Rebuilding T ogether North Central Florida, Ronald McDonald House Charities of North Central Florida, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rabel, Inc., Sickle Cell Disease Association of Florida, Inc., Southwest Advocacy Group, Stop Children’s Cancer, Inc., The Climb for Cancer Foundation, United Way of North Central 
Florida, Westside Samaritans Clinic 
HOMELESSNESS AND HOUSING
Alachua Habitat for Humanity, Community Weatherization Coalition, Family Promise of 
Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, GRACE, Helping Hands Clinic, Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation, Penny Box App Giving Fund, Rebuilding T ogether North Central Florida, Southern Legal Council, Inc.
POVERTY AND HUNGER
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, Catholic Charities Gainesville, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Gainesville Community Ministry, Gainesville Opportunity Center, GRACE, Helping Hands Clinic, Junior League of Gainesville, Kids Count in Alach-ua County, Inc., Penny Box App Giving Fund, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rebel, Inc., United Way of North Central Florida
SENIORS
Friends of T acachale, Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses, Haven Hospice
SOCIAL JUSTICE
Center for Independent Living of North Central Florida, Gainesville Opportunity Center, Gainesville Police Department, GRACE, Partnership for Strong Families, Peace-ful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, South Legal Council, Inc., Special Olympics Florida, The Guardian Foundation, Inc.
VETERANS
Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, HOrses Helping PEople, North Florida Founda-tion for Research and Education, Inc.
WOMEN’S ISSUES
Alachua County  Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., FCSW Foundation, Inc., Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls Place, Inc., Healthy Families ACUB, Junior League of Gainesville, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network
YOUTH
Aces In Motion, AMIkids Gainesville, Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Buchholz Academy of Entrepreneurship, Child Advocacy Center, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Dance Alive National Ballet, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., FCSW Foundation, Inc., Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Youth Chorus, Inc., Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses, Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls on the Run of Alachua County, Girls Place, Inc. HOrses Helping PEople, Junior Achievement of Alachua County, Junior League of Gainesville, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., NAMI Gainesville, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Partnership for Strong Families, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, Special Olym-pics Florida, Stop Children’s Cancer, Inc., The Einstein School, The Guardian Foundation4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
THE COUNTRY 
EXPERIENCED ITS FIRST 
OUTBREAK A FEW  
WEEKS AGO.
By Sophia Carballo 
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
A UF professor is helping to 
prevent tiny insects from harm-
ing coffee plants in Papua New 
Guinea. Jiri Hulcr, a UF forest resources 
and conservation professor, started a partnership in 2014 with the Cof-fee Industry Corporation branch of 
Papua New Guinea’s government 
to help identify the beetle, called 
the coffee berry borer. The country 
discovered its first infestation the first week of March, Hulcr said. 
“Since Papua New Guinea is so 
isolated, it’s the only place in the world, along with China, that is not infested with this beetle, and 
that is why this is significant,” the 
38-year-old said. 
Some of the coffee Starbucks 
sells is from Papua New Guinea, he said. 
Hulcr said he’s training farm-
ers, growers and gardeners in the country to identify the insect, manage outbreaks and recognize symptoms. The bugs infest coffee plants, making them inedible and unable to be exported. 
He said he sent students to the 
country to develop an insect iden-tification lab to find the specific 
beetles. 
“We are one of the few labs in 
the world that can reliably tell the 
difference, because we’ve studied these insects before,” Hulcr said. 
People in the country rely on 
the money from selling coffee as their income, he said. But the bugs are threatening to 
eliminate the industry. 
Cristina Villena, a 20-year-old 
UF business sophomore, said she hopes the beetles are eradicated. 
“I have a cup of Starbucks cof-
fee almost every day, so for all I know this could result in my daily 
coffee supply being completely de-
pleted,” Villena said. “That would be disastrous for both me and ev-
eryone I interact with.” UF professor helping save Papua New Guinea’s coffee 
Courtesy to the Alligator 
A 24-ton stone replica of the Aztect calendar sits in the Dickinson Hall courtyard. Susan 
Milbrath, a curator at the Florida Museum of Natural History, recently interpreted the stone’s meaning to predict the death of the Aztec sun god, causing apocalyptic earthquakes.
By Harrison O’Keeffe 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Although some UF students may feel 
like the world is coming to an end as fi-
nals approach, a 24-ton replica of an Az-tec calendar stone lying on the Dickinson Hall courtyard may confirm their fears.
Susan Milbrath, a curator at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History, pub-lished her interpretation of the original stone calendar’s meaning in the Mexicon journal in February. She’s researched the stone since 1995 and says it depicts the death of Huitzilopochtli the Aztec sun god, and the end of times.
“Aztec priests attempted to predict 
catastrophic events,” Milbrath said. “The stone depicts the end of the world coming from earthquakes and a solar eclipse.”
She said the original stone, now in 
Mexico City, was most likely used as a platform for human sacrifices to stop the world from ending. The replica has been at UF since the ’70s.
Milbrath said the stone shows how sophisticated the Aztecs were at predict-ing events using astronomy. The Az-tecs predicted apocalyptic earthquakes 
wouldn’t happen until at least the 21st 
century. 
“It is the single-most important Aztec 
symbol surviving today,” she said. 
Olivia Meadows, the co-vice presi-
dent of the Undergraduate Florida An-thropology Student Association, said she’s familiar with the stone from her coursework. She said the replica is ben-
eficial for students to have on campus.
“You can go to class and listen to 
your professor talk,” the 20-year-old UF 
anthropology and philosophy sopho-more said, “but, when you have a rep-lica you can look at and appreciate. It drives home how important archaeology is for us.”
She said the stone is interesting be-
cause it shows similarities between cul-tures throughout the world. 
“I think we all predict the end of the 
world, not just the Aztecs,” she said. “It’s evident in every culture, because everyone is afraid of the unknown.”UF’s Aztec stone replica predicts apocalyptic earthquakes
what we can deliver in subsequent semesters,” she said.
Ethan Cassidy, a 19-year-old UF 
history sophomore, was a PaCE student who transitioned into full-campus enrollment. Cassidy said he has friends who didn’t want to enroll as PaCE students because their desired major wasn’t avail-able.
“I just truly never understood why all the majors weren’t offered by PaCE, to be honest,” Cassidy said. “I’m just glad they’re doing that or thinking about doing that.” 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
ONLINE,  from pg1The university offers on-campus students about 150 majors
• Fire and emergency services
• Microbiology and cell science• Communication sciences and 
disorders
• Fine Arts (Only PaCE addition)NEW MAJORS OFFERED: THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
SHE WILL SPEAK IN THE 
REITZ UNION GRAND 
BALLROOM AT 11:50 A.M. 
By Jennie Mason
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The co-founder of Vera Bradley 
will speak at UF today as part of the 
2017 Women’s Entrepreneurship Symposium.
The event, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, is free for UF students, faculty and staff, said Susana Santos, the event’s lead organizer. For those unafﬁ  li-ated with UF, pre-registration costs $55, and tickets at the door cost $75. 
Barbara Bradley Baekgaard, the 
chief creative ofﬁ  cer and director of Vera Bradley, an American lug-
gage and handbag design company, 
is the main speaker. She’ll speak about her company and women entrepreneurs in the workforce at 11:50 a.m., Santos said. 
“This is an excellent opportunity 
to empower your entrepreneurship spirit, to get inspired by stories of women entrepreneurs who success-
fully launched their business and 
develop your entrepreneurial mind-set,” she said.
Alexandra Craissati, the market-
ing director for the event, said it’s the second year the symposium is  being held at UF. 
Craissati said she expects about 
400 women to attend. 
She said other speakers at the 
symposium include Kim Wilson, the founder of the Social News Desk, a company that manages social me-dia for newsrooms; Nicole Irving, the founder of Irving Publications, LLC; and Michelle Brewer, the co-founder of the restaurant Adam’s Rib Co. All three businesses started 
in Gainesville. 
“I love this event because it com-
bines two things I’m passionate 
about: marketing and entrepreneur-ship,” Craissati said.  Vera Bradley co-founder to visit UFUF STUDENTS SHOW 
SUPPORT THROUGH THE 
ORGANIZATION GATORS 
FOR GILLUM.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
After announcing his candi-
dacy for governor at the beginning of the month, democrat Andrew Gillum has garnered support in Gainesville.
UF students and Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe are among those endorsing the former Tallahassee mayor and his candidacy.
Poe said he’s always been aware 
of Gillum’s presence, as they were both student government leaders and graduates of Gainesville High School. The local leaders’ relation-
ship strengthened after they both 
were elected as mayors of promi-nent Florida cities, Poe said, speak-ing after he publicly endorsed the candidate March 22. 
“I just really respect him, for not 
only his policies but for his char-acter and back-ground,” Poe 
said. “He has all 
of the elements 
that will make a great governor.”
Gillum, 37, 
gave a speech at the 2016 Demo-cratic National 
Convention. At 23 years old, he 
was the youngest to be elected as 
a Tallahassee city commissioner, a position he ﬁ  lled for more than 10 years, according to the Gainesville Sun.
Poe said the similarities be-
tween Gainesville and Tallahassee led him to use Gillum as a sound-ing board for ideas, and vice versa. 
Poe said he believes Gillum’s suc-
cessful record in Tallahassee can be applied to the entire state.
In addition to standing against 
gun lobbyists to keep guns out of public parks, Poe said Gillum is an outspoken advocate for equality, civil rights and public safety. 
“Coming from very modest 
means, he understands the strug-gles that many Floridians face every day,” Poe said. “He’s also shown that he understands a path 
to help those people out with those 
struggles.”
Support for Gillum has also 
emerged from UF’s community.
After going to Gillum’s cam-
paign kickoff rally earlier this month in Tallahassee, Ben Lima decided to organize Gators for Gil-lum.
The UF political science fresh-
man said he’s been looking forward to the 2018 governor’s race for a long time since Florida governors, including current Gov. Rick Scott, have steadily been republicans. 
Lima, 19, said he was ecstatic 
when he heard Gillum, whose in-spirational nature reminds him of 
former President Barack Obama, 
would be running.
“He has a record of standing up 
against special interest groups and speaking on behalf of progressive, democratic values,” Lima said. “We believe he will stand up for everyone.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org  Gainesville mayor, UF students 
back democrat’s run for governor
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
A MUSICAL MOMENT
Daniel Hopin, a 20-year-old UF public relations junior, 
performs a saxophone solo with his band, Sonic Realm Brass Band, on Wednesday night in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. The band performed as part of a celebration for UF’s College of the Arts.
Gillum
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
The top three movies in the box office last weekend were 
“Beauty and the Beast,” “Power Rangers” and “Kong: Skull Island.” What do they all have in common? They’re all reboots, remakes or sequels, capitalizing on the previous fame and success of their predecessors. 
Perhaps that’s a very cynical way to view it, but the fact is, Hollywood realized people love familiar things and are nostalgic, and that both these things mean very easy money.
Why waste time coming up with a new and creative story 
when Disney can literally rehash scenes from one of its most popular animated films? Maybe tack on a few new lines of dialogue, change some backstory, add a popular childhood actress, a ton of CGI and wham! Money comes rolling in. Dis-ney has way more live-action reboots planned, from “Mulan” 
to “The Lion King.”
We’re a bit hesitant to call any of these Disney live-action 
films good movies on their own merit, since in our minds, 
we’re always going to be comparing them to the original. “Beauty and the Beast” was pretty and fun, but the original was a work of art.  
Likewise, if Marvel had not decided to reboot Spider-Man 
with Andrew Garfield within half a decade of the Tobey Ma-guire franchise ending, perhaps the reboot wouldn’t have 
fallen flat. Perhaps had Marvel also taken a little breather 
between sequels, some of them would’ve stood out instead of seamlessly blending into mindless action sequences. 
These films aren’t terrible, but compared to their origi-
nals, they just don’t have the same spark.
But these films, reboots of reboots, remakes of remakes 
and sequels of sequels still end up making hundreds of mil-lions of dollars at the box office.
Why? Because we, as humans, are suckers for nostalgia. 
We’re not going to get on a high horse and say we don’t find the idea of a live-action “Mulan” pretty darn cool. We’re not going to pretend we’re not slightly interested in Tom Holland, the third Spider-Man actor in our lifetimes. We’re not go-ing to pretend we’re not anxiously awaiting the eighth “Star Wars” installment and every other title Lucasfilm throws at us. Even though we are wary of the changes Disney makes to our beloved childhood films, even though there hasn’t been a good Spider-Man movie since the 2002 movie, even though 
nothing will ever hold up to the original “Star Wars” trilogy, 
we still pay money and get excited watching these remakes.
There’s nothing wrong with that. If you get a little disil-
lusioned with these sequels and remakes, that’s fine. We un-derstand. But if they still get you excited, if you’re still going to line up for tickets for “Fast and Furious 96,” then that’s fine, too. But as consumers, perhaps we should demand a little more than sloppy remakes and sequels that always fail to compare to the original. Yes, there’s more sophisticated, 
Oscar-worthy films, but for quick, fun entertainment, it’s a 
little disappointing to feel, well, disappointed all the time.
Last year, in addition to the live-action adaptations and 
sequels, Disney also gave us “Zootopia” and “Moana,” two brilliant films that stood on their own, without the burden of a predecessor. It might be hard to come up with new, good material, but clearly, it is not impossible. They did, after all, do it the first time round.Why we keep 
falling back on 
remakes  
I’m not a big fan of Tomi Lahren — never 
have been. The 24-year-old ultra-conser-vative pundit from TheBlaze has made a career, if only for a few years, by belching her intentionally inflammatory opinions to 
arouse a like-minded right-wing audience. But last week, she finally said something of interest while appearing as a guest on “The View.” 
“I am someone that’s for limited govern-
ment, so I can’t sit here and be a hypocrite and say that I’m for limited government, but I think that the government should decide what women do with their bodies,” Lahren said. “I’m for limited government, so stay out of my guns, and stay out of my body as well.”
Lahren’s words made me contemplate the current state 
of the abortion debate. I found myself asking some ques-tions: Why must being pro-life be so sweepingly synony-mous with being against women? Furthermore, is it pos-sible to rationally reside somewhere in the middle between pro-life and pro-choice? 
Now, this issue is obviously an incendiary one, prompt-
ly eliciting staunch reactions from both sides. I can already hear my mother’s concerned voice telling me to write 
about something less controversial. But shying away from 
difficult topics accomplishes nothing. 
Sorry, Mom. Here we go. Pro-life and pro-choice camps should find common 
ground in recognizing the importance of providing access to affordable health care and contraceptives for women. Abortions only make up a small percentage of female re-productive care. However, clinics like Planned Parenthood, which also provide countless services such as sexually 
transmitted disease testing and treatment, cancer screen-
ings and pregnancy tests, risk losing their funding. Often, these clinics provide much more than just abortions. They care for countless women who otherwise wouldn’t be able to afford it. 
I also think it is reasonable to give the health of the 
mother priority over the life of the unborn child. If the preg-nancy puts the mother’s life in danger, abortion should be an option. These are important realities to mull. 
But even taking them into consideration, the 
debate is not cut and dried.
Often, pro-life supporters can lose sight of 
the need for improvement in access to women’s 
health care and contraceptives that could prevent 
the need for an abortion in the first place. They fail to see that the pro-choice side isn’t necessar-ily just fighting for the right to have an abortion, but for the right to have control over their bodies and reproductive systems. 
Likewise, staunch pro-choice factions conflate being 
pro-life with being anti-women. 
Why? 
Many people who are pro-life don’t innately object to a 
woman having control over her body. They object to the 
morality of abortion. More than anything, there is one, fun-damental element at the crux of the argument that some-times becomes lost, yet must always be taken into consid-eration: the sanctity of human life. Just because someone believes in protecting the life of an unborn child doesn’t necessarily mean they want to repress women. 
Yet this stigma exists. 
For example, at the Women’s March this past January, 
a group of pro-life women were discouraged from partici-
pating by the largely pro-choice crowd. In essence, their voices were de-legitimized, their choice to be pro-life was scoffed at. Should a woman’s choice to be pro-life not mat-ter because it goes against the grain of the majority? 
I don’t think so.In this debate, a gray area exists. I think it’s possible 
to be both pro-life and pro-women: to want to protect the 
unborn life while simultaneously recognizing the worth 
and importance of expanding women’s rights. As a soci-ety, we have the responsibility to protect those who can’t protect themselves, including our most vulnerable, born and unborn. Being pro-life and pro-women does not — and should not — have to be mutually exclusive. 
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays. No man’s land: in between pro-life and pro-choice 
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORBrian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Throwback tracks to add to your playlist
Songs in honor of #tbt, pg. 10THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Reggae band The Wailers to perform in GNV
The group will play at  High Dive on Sunday,  pg. 8By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
The sixth annual UF MusicFest, hosted by the Asian 
American Student Union, the Hispanic Student Asso-
ciation, Student Government and Health Educated Asian Leaders, will be on Flavet Field on Sunday. 
MusicFest was created with the slogan, “Good Vibes 
for a Good Cause,” and it’s evident from the organization’s passion to support local musicians from throughout the Florida and Asian American community, as well as their drive to beneﬁ  t Gainesville philanthropies, they’ve lived up to their motto. 
Nikki Nguyen, a 22-year-old UF sociology senior and 
ﬁ  rst-time director of this year’s MusicFest, said she intends to use her leadership skills within both the university and the AASU to create an event that will encourage others to 
give a helping hand to those in need.
“Through the position of director, I would not only use 
my leadership skills to encourage others to become more 
involved, both on an extracurricular and philanthropic lev-el, but I would also elevate an event in a way that would set it apart from others on campus,” Nguyen said.
MusicFest was originally created in 2012 by prominent 
AASU members Hai Huynh and Christina Chan-Pong with the intention of giving back to the Gainesville community 
by bringing attention to both local talent and charity orga-
nizations, Nguyen said.
“They both had a passion for music and saw that there 
was so much local talent in Gainesville and wanted to ﬁ  nd a way to give artists an outlet to showcase their talents,” Nguyen said. 
Nguyen was initially exposed to the event because of 
a friendship with co-founder Chan-Pong, and seeing ﬁ  rst-hand the true purpose of the concert inﬂ  uenced her to get 
more involved with the organization and ultimately get the 
opportunity to direct the festival. 
“My end goal is to execute a high-quality show that will 
undoubtedly bring out an ever-increasing turnout from previous years and set the foundation for a show that will continue to grow even more in years to come,” Nguyen said.
MusicFest, which hosts a variety of talent ranging from solo artists, musical groups and dance teams, generally has an average of 500 attendees, and its turnout has gradually increased every year, Nguyen said.
She said she believes her passion to give back to the 
Gainesville community will ascertain a successful event that will most deﬁ  nitely emanate “Good Vibes for a Good Cause.”
MusicFest sticks to its humanitarian roots by hosting 
a clothing drive to support the St. Francis House, an or-ganization that provides the basic necessities to help the homeless and less fortunate in the Gainesville community.
“For each article of clothing that is brought, participants 
will be entered into a drawing for prizes such as MusicFest tank tops and Beque Holic gift cards,” Nguyen said. “Last year, MusicFest collected over 600 articles of clothing, and this year, I only hope to donate more.” 
By providing a platform in which students can show-
case their talent in an accepting environment, MusicFest brings more attention to UF’s abundant music scene, which Nguyen argues could use more awareness. 
She said the university could create this awareness by 
creating more opportunities for people to express their gift with others, whether through programming more open-mic nights or even highlighting student musicians through UF’s social media.  
“The art and music scene is so diverse here at UF, with 
the presence of organizations such as Hip Hop Collective to various different cappella groups, and this richness in the students’ experience with music is something that the university should take pride in,” Nguyen said.
Nguyen said she intends to use her director position to 
create an event that will not only bring this exposure, but also continue the organization’s remarkable trajectory into the future, where they can continue to support local acts and causes.  
“I want everyone who goes to MusicFest to have a re-
laxing evening before ﬁ  nals start taking over and that ev-eryone is there for the same purpose: to give back to the Gainesville community that has given all of us so much,” 
Nguyen said. 
The free festival will be from 6:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Fla-
vet Field and will include interactive booths, prize rafﬂ  es 
and free food.  UF student groups give back with 2017 MusicFest
MUSIC
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer
A new exhibit at the University 
Galleries is showcasing top ceram-ic art picked by acclaimed artists.
Currents 2017 — Perception: 
Color and Content is being shown in the Gary R. Libby Gallery lo-cated on UF’s campus from now 
until April 19. 
An opening reception will be 
held tonight from 5:30 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m.
Currents is an annual national 
juried exhibition, meaning the pieces are selected.
Currents addresses contempo-
rary themes in ceramic art. This year’s theme, Perception: Color and Content, is thematically fo-cused on the idea of how percep-
tion of color can change the way 
the content is perceived.
The pieces shown in the gallery 
were selected by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker, acclaimed artists in their ﬁ  elds of ceramics and mixed media art.
This year, about 250 different 
pieces were sent in for selection, 
and only 19 were chosen for the 
exhibit, said Carin Sankus, a UF second-year ceramics graduate student and curator of Currents.
Participants do not have to be 
students to send artwork in to be juried and possibly selected for the exhibit.
“It’s always a national call,” 
Sankus said. “This year we have 
an international team of artists 
from Israel, also.”
Although the exhibit is focused 
on ceramic art, only 10 percent of the artwork in any given piece is required to be made with clay this year, Sankus said.
“Every year the jurors get to 
choose how much clay (is re-
quired),” Sankus said. “This year 
they decided on 10 percent, be-cause the jurors work is a lot of mixed material and mixed media.”
H.O.T. (Handbuilt or Thrown) 
Clay, the UF ceramics student organization, has sponsored the exhibit annually for the last ﬁ  ve years. This exhibit is a chance to expand the educational ex-
perience for students within the 
School of Art + Art History, ac-cording to a press release issued by the University Galleries.
A goal of the exhibit is also to 
engage the public with color and content within contemporary ce-ramic art.
One of the 19 pieces in the ex-
hibit was created by fellow Gator G.V. Kelley.
“I am interested in the perfor-
mative nature of gender conveyed through ﬁ  gurative sculpture,” Kelley said. “My use of color and material in the surfacing of my ﬁ  gures speaks to a history of per-formance as well as draws from subcultures such as that of drag, 
club kids and the club culture of 
the goth/industrial/electronic mu-sic scenes.”
The Libby Gallery presents art 
exhibitions that are organized by graduate student curators, which provides the opportunity for stu-dents to learn through experience about curation, exhibition design 
and presentation.
The gallery is located on the 
ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of Fine Arts Building C. 
The reception will be held tonight at 5:30 p.m., but the operating hours of the gallery are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.
New exhibit Currents hosts opening reception tonight
ART
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Reggae legends The Wailers are set 
to perform at High Dive this week for 
what is expected to be a sold-out crowd.  
The show will take place Sunday 
from 7:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m., with early entry to High Dive’s Beer Garden of-fered at 6 p.m. 
Tickets are $20 in advance and $23 
at the door, and those under 21 will be charged a $3 fee. Tickets are being sold 
at Hear Again Music and Movies, High 
Tides Tobacco and Gifts and online at 
ticketﬂ  y.com, as well as at High Dive it-self. The bands Ozone and Propaganjah 
will provide opening entertainment. 
Pat Lavery, the facility and events 
manager at High Dive, said this will be 
The Wailers’ fourth time performing 
at High Dive. Lavery has booked and produced shows at High Dive since it opened almost six years ago, and he said The Wailers are always memorable 
performers. 
“What’s great about this show is see-
ing people of all ages singing along to 
the classic songs of Bob Marley and The 
Wailers,” he said. 
Lavery added that he has had a re-
lationship with the band that goes back a decade. He said The Wailers always 
come to him when they want to per-
form a show in Gainesville. 
“They are the most iconic band in 
reggae history, having sold over 100 
million records,” he said. “High Dive 
is the most iconic venue in Gainesville. It’s a perfect ﬁ  t.”  
The Wailers will be playing Mar-
ley’s greatest hits, including songs they 
recorded with Marley himself when 
they played under Bob Marley and The Wailers. These include “Could You Be 
Loved,” “Buffalo Soldier,” “I Shot The Sheriff,” “Is This Love” and many more. 
Two of the original The Wailers 
members, Aston “Family Man” Barrett and Junior Marvin, have since rejoined 
the band and will be present at the 
show, an aspect Lavery said will make 
the event “a very authentic experience.” 
The Wailers band was what took 
reggae from Jamaica to the worldwide stage, something younger fans of Mar-
ley may be completely unaware of 
when enjoying his music. Marley was 
catapulted to international success with 
the direct support of The Wailers, and 
during their time together as Bob Mar-
ley and The Wailers, some of Marley’s most iconic music came to be.  
The Wailers went their separate 
ways after Marley’s tragic death in 
1981, but they have since reunited to 
bring true reggae music to a world that has changed drastically since their origi-
nal time together. Famous reggae band The Wailers to perform at High Dive 
THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
My dad bought me a set of tickets 
for my last birthday that he hyped 
up for weeks leading up to their re-veal. He’d ask me what I wanted for my birthday, to which I’d reply with 
the names of expensive music gear 
I knew he wouldn’t recognize. Then he’d say something like, “Well I got you something even better. A set of tickets that are going to blow your mind.” 
I was excited. One of my favorite 
comedians, Louis C.K., was touring, and I thought maybe my dad bought 
me tickets to see him. Then my birth-
day came around, and he told me the news. Instead of Louis, I would be seeing Bob Dylan live in concert at the Broward Center for the Perform-ing Arts in Ft. Lauderdale. I tried to feign excitement. 
At this point, I’d heard terrible 
things about Dylan’s live shows. The 
once enigmatic and soulful youth 
who released revolutionary albums in the ’60s is now a crabby 75-year-old man, long beyond his prime. I felt bad for dreading the concert, espe-cially considering how expensive the tickets probably were. My dad was so excited to take me to see a mu-sician we bonded over, so I tried to 
keep an open mind. How bad could 
a live Bob Dylan show really be?
The answer is bad. First off, there 
was a rule that nobody in the audi-ence was to have a phone out while in the concert hall, made apparent by all the signs outside the room. Now I’m not one to scroll through my phone while someone is perform-
ing in front of me, but sometimes 
a phone can be really helpful. I had this really nasty experience with one of the ushers while using my phone’s ﬂ  ashlight to try and ﬁ  nd my 
seat. I was about to shufﬂ  e my way 
through a line of people, settled in their chairs, when I felt a hand grab my shoulder. Hot breath ﬁ  lled my ear with a raspy, “Hey you! Can’t you read? No cellphones allowed!”
I put my phone in my pocket and 
stuck my tongue out at him. Then I took my seat.
I had a perfect view of the stage 
as the deep red curtains dispersed and old Bob Dylan sat in front of a shiny grand piano. He wore a black top hat, his signature style during the later years of his career. I sat in a cozy seat and watched as Dylan strolled around the stage, presenting weird half-hearted dance moves, like 
ﬂ  icking his wrist and widening his 
legs. His lyrics were indecipherable through the scratchy mumble of his voice. He played a bunch of tracks from albums of his I never cared to 
listen to, and when he did play the 
Dylan essentials, like “Desolation Row” or “Blowin’ in the Wind,” he absolutely butchered them by dras-tically altering their instrumental arrangements and mumbling up-dated lyrics I didn’t recognize. He also played about six Frank Sinatra covers, which really confused me. 
Drunken middle-aged classic rock 
fans shouted for him to play “Hur-ricane,” which he never did. 
I sat in my comfortable seat and 
thought about all the best concerts I’ve attended over the years. I wasn’t sitting down for any of them. There were no stringent rules on cellphone use either. Come to think of it, my 
best experiences seeing live music 
were mostly casual and lawless, in bars you can smoke inside of, with no assigned seating, and where the band plays one Frank Sinatra cover, 
tops.
I don’t mean to knock Dylan — 
he’s one of the greatest songwriters 
of all time. I think it’s great he can still tour and release music, since there will always be people who will buy it all. I would never pay to see the guy perform, though. There’s just something about seeing old rock 
stars, years past their primes, in big, 
fancy, expensive venues playing to audiences who work hard to hide their disappointment, who spend $8 on each bottle of Budweiser just to get buzzed off of something while they shout at the wrinkly men on stage to “Play the hits!”
In the car on the way home from 
the show, my dad said, “Well, that was disappointing.”
Thoughts on seeing artists perform past their prime10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
This year has given listeners 
countless tracks to add to their 
playlist. Whether looking for a love ballad, a head-banger, a road-trip soundtrack or anything in be-
tween, 2017’s new releases have 
had it. However, the best playlist is achieved through diversity, and that means incorporating tracks from various genres that have been released throughout time. In honor of Throwback Thursday, here are some throwback tracks you should consider adding to your playlist.
‘La Tortura’ —  Shakira feat. 
Alejandro Sanz
I will preface this by saying I 
am not ﬂ  uent in Spanish. However, like English music, Latin music is not only for Spanish speakers, con-sidering the universal messages of the songs and catchy beats. 
Upon taking a closer look at the lyrics of the track, the pas-sion in the song is unparalleled by English music, even with talented 
songwriters like Ed Sheeran and 
John Mayer. Listeners feel the pain of the lost lovers portrayed in the song with every line. Lyrics like, “I can’t ask winter to spare a rose bush” encapsulate the struggle of being separated from your beloved. 
Although overpowering mu-
sic can often minimize the impact 
of the lyrics, the beat of this track 
punctuates the words, adding ﬂ  are and a feeling of lust to the song. 
All in all, this is a track that 
will help you cope with heartache, while encouraging you to get on the dance ﬂ  oor. 
‘If I Ain’t Got You’ — James 
Bay 
Covers are the best way to ﬁ  nd a 
new appreciation for an older song, with each artist bringing their own style to the track. “If I Ain’t Got You,” which was released by Alicia Keys in 2003, ﬁ  nds a new sound with British singer-songwriter James Bay. 
Bay kept the simplicity of the 
song by only accompanying the lyrics with his guitar, leading into the song with the light plucking of his strings.
What Bay brings to the track are 
his vocal abilities. Throughout the song, he hinders his voice to add dimension to the song, giving it an 
updated sound.
His raspiness adds a soft mas-
culinity to the song, giving listen-
ers a new perspective to the lyrics. His ability to belt during the cho-rus brings power and, much like Keys’ version, adds emphasis to the track. 
‘Take Me to Church’ — Hozier
Released in 2014, “Take Me to 
Church” shot Hozier into popular-
ity, allowing listeners to dip their toes into the realm of rock music. We all listened to this track more times than we can count, attempt-ing to match Hozier’s vocal ability. However, once the song gained 
popularity on the charts, it became 
overplayed and slowly faded into the musical horizon.
Although “Take Me to Church” 
was the breakout hit from his self-titled album, the album itself is worth a full listen. While maintain-ing his style, Hozier varies his in-strumentals throughout the tracks 
and adjusts his vocals to ﬁ  t the 
song material. 
When ﬁ  rst listening to “Take Me 
to Church,” I did not even realize the power and emotion behind lyr-ics like, “My church offers no abso-lutes, she tells me ‘worship in the bedroom.’”
Now that ample time has passed, 
this dark rock ballad deserves to be blasted from your speakers again. 
‘Don’t Wanna Fight’ — Ala-
bama Shakes
Occasionally a song comes around that doesn’t require a full listen to know if it’s worthy of a download. “Don’t Wanna Fight” by 
the band Alabama Shakes is one of 
those tracks.
From the light guitar picking 
in the lead-in of the song to lead singer and guitarist Brittany How-ard’s piercing screech, this song is one-of-a-kind. 
Although Alabama Shakes is 
classiﬁ  ed under the rock genre, 
there is no one description for the 
band’s unique sound. The guitar styling in this track lends a psy-chedelic disco feel, the falsetto in the chorus gives the song that rock edge, and the other instrumentals offer a jazz-like sound.
Normally, combining all these 
competing sounds and musical 
styles into one track overwhelms 
the song. However, this 2015 re-lease gives listeners a blast from the past that works seamlessly and should be added to your playlist.
#TBT: Throwback tracks to put on your latest playlist
MUSIC
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer 
Foodies and wine connoisseurs 
alike will appreciate the second an-
nual Embers Wood Grill Food and 
Wine Festival on Sunday.
The three-hour event, located at 
the high-end chophouse off Archer Road and 34th Street at 3545 SW 34th St., starts at 2 p.m.
The tasting will feature more than 
200 wines, champagnes and liquors selected by the certiﬁ  ed in-house sommeliers, the restaurant co-owner 
June Allen said. Swamp Head Brew-
ery, a Gainesville establishment, brewed two specialty beers for the 
event.
Food options include artisan 
cheeses, specialty desserts, an out-door grill station and a seafood and 
raw bar station, all prepared by the restaurant’s culinary team.
“It can actually educate and el-
evate our diners and our guests in North Florida and Alachua County 
for their taste, their experience with wine,” Allen said.
Allen said Embers is the only 
Florida restaurant north of Orlando 
to have two in-house sommeliers. 
She said she hopes this event puts 
their high-end restaurant on the map.
“People don’t think when you 
come to Gainesville or you live in Gainesville that you can have that 
type of dining experience,” she said.
The festival is a way for new and 
regular guests to attend a rare culi-nary event, Allen said.“There’s a lot of unique things 
that you get to see and try that you 
might not see anywhere else at any of the other restaurants in Gainesville,” 
she said.
The event will support scholar-
ship programs in the Eastside High School’s Institute of Culinary Arts 
Program in Gainesville. Briton Du-mas, the executive chef at Embers, 
is a graduate of the program, Allen 
said. They plan to award the scholar-ship during the event.
Embers worked for years to build relationships with distributors and 
wine makers to put on this event, 
Allen said.
“It takes a lot to build those rela-
tionships, and so people were very, very surprised last year that came — that Gainesville, a business and a 
restaurant in Gainesville, could pull 
something off that was that quality,” she said.
Tickets for Sunday’s event are 
$100 and are available online to those 21 and older at emberswine-
andfoodfestival.com.Gainesville restaurant to host food and wine festival
LOCALTHURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
3 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! 
Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     4-5-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-5-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a re-covering brain-damaged woman in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bkgrnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    4-4-17-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Sun Country Sports
is hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestBudget Lawn Cuts
Full service lawn care
Sm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40
Other services, like pressure washing
are available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    
4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Research A ssistant position
requires Javascript, AWS,  
email 1 page resume to 
science@mammacare.org    3-30-17-10-14
Looking for someone to drive a beverage cart at our golf course selling beers, soda & snacks to our golfers. PT, hours flexible. Easy, fun, casual work environment. Salary + tips. 352-807-3176 ask for Doc.    2-28-5-14
GatorWell Seeking Health Hut Wellness Educators GatorWell HPS is seeking current UF students to work at the GatorWell Health Hut, to begin Summer 2017.  For more infor-
mation go to jobs.ufl.edu & search requisition # 501769.      3-30-17-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
ACROSS
1 “Yeah, sure!”
6 Some CPAs and
MBAs
10 __ bean
14 What choir
members have to
carry
15 Lined up, with “in”
16 2001
Winslet/Dench
title role
17 Hero makers
18 Window
shopper’s buy
19 Bottle part20 Double-helix
molecules
21 Stat for which
Babe Ruth’s 457
is the single-season record
23 Site of many
Ansel Adamsworks
25 Online chortle26 Wide awake28 Joan __32 Aplenty
36 Carmelite,
perhaps
38 Muffin topper
39 What the groups
of circled letters
graphically
represent
42 Labyrinth
43 Plop down
44 Legal scholar
45 “Obsessable
series” moviechannel
47 What “two”
meant to Paul
Revere
49 Bow __51 Billboard charts56 Tart vodka
cocktails
60 Petunia part61 Greenish blue62 Use the
escalator, about
half the time
63 Plant swelling
64 What a stet
cancels
65 Alternatively66 Cheap mags67 Old jet-set jets68 Bob or dog
attachment
69 Canines, e.g.
DOWN
1 Irrigated grain
field2 Courtroom figure
3 Hippy dances?
4 Italian cookie
flavoring
5 Filmmaker
Craven
6 Holly Golightly’s
creator
7 Place for annual
pledging
8 Chaplin of
“Game of
Thrones”
9 Balloon
10 Elite Eight
survivors
11 War god12 Target of many a
New Year’s
resolution
13 Poses
21 Floor installers22 Savior of Scout
and Jem, in “ToKill aMockingbird”
24 Filly, eventually27 Mild rebuke29 End of a ball
game?
30 Great American
Ball Park team
31 COLA
component
32 69-Across
holders33 Vet school subj.
34 Joel’s “Cabaret”
co-star
35 Hinted-at hidden
meanings
37 AFC East team
40 Sis or bro
41 Grade of
excellence: Abbr.
46 Cab alternative48 Opposite of
guzzled
50 Cube’s dozen52 Expectant mom’s
words
53 Inscribed pillar54 Lead on55 Blockbuster
56 Some TV screens
57 They work better
when they focus
58 Dairy Queen
order
59 Lucky streak63 Skillful,
facetiously
By Richard F. Mausser©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/30/1703/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida Pepsi Relays begin today for track and ﬁ  eld
Olympians, college athletes and high school competitors will take part 
in the weekend track meet, which runs from today until Saturday at UF's 
Percy Beard Track.Florida's Alicia Boren is 
leading the UF gymnastics team into regionals. Read the story, pg. 16NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
How often is Florida’s softball team cast under the national spotlight for something that happens after  
a game?
Almost never. 
That was until Monday night, when 
Florida lost 1-0 to Auburn and immediate-
ly after the loss during the high-five line, Tigers shortstop Haley Fagan and Gators 
head coach Tim Walton got into it. 
Though the sequence of events is up 
for interpretation, here’s how I saw it: 
Fagan dropped her hand, choosing not to high-five Walton at least a couple play-ers before the two would’ve slapped palms. Walton, who had plenty of time to see what was happening in front of him, chose to high-five Fagan’s shoulder 
instead. An annoyed Fagan then pushed 
Walton’s back before the two exchanged words. 
What you also need to know is the 
backstory here. Back in 2012, Walton 
dismissed Fagan’s sisters — Kasey and Sami — along with Cheyenne Coyle from the program following a team 
altercation. 
The details as to why never 
fully emerged. 
So it’s safe to say Monday 
night some of that bad blood 
between Walton and the Fa-gan family spilled onto the field. 
And it was all very petty, from both 
sides. 
But Walton was in the wrong more 
than Fagan was, and here’s why.
Nowhere in the NCAA rulebook does it 
say a player has to high-five every single member of the high-five line (though page one does say sportsmanship is a core val-ue of the NCAA). Heck, she doesn’t even have to say “good game” to anyone if she doesn’t feel like it. 
Think of it like standing for the Pledge of Allegiance in school. Sure, everyone else expects you to take part, but by no means is it mandatory. 
I’ve played baseball for 
nearly my entire life, and I’ve congratulated every player of the opposing team I’ve shared the field with. 
But if someone didn’t want 
to fist bump? Fine by me. Be 
the poor sport you are. 
What Walton should have done was 
put his hand down too, and thought to 
himself, “Man, I sure am glad that brat 
isn’t on my team.”
Instead, he brushed Fagan’s shoulder 
and issued an apology through the team’s Twitter account less than a day later. 
“I apologize to Haley. I just wanted to 
congratulate Auburn on the win – it was a good series,” Walton said. “My intent was to give a high-five to each opposing player 
as we do after every game. Apparently, her hand wasn’t up as I said ‘good game’ 
and I touched her shoulder. I should have paid closer attention and did not intend to upset her.”
He went on. 
“I regret that this has taken attention 
away from the effort and sportsmanship 
both teams displayed all weekend.”
The key word there is “apparently.” I 
believe Walton knew exactly what he was doing, but I’ll let you be the judge. 
Sports are emotional. Players and 
coaches get heated. That I have no prob-lem accepting.
But this was different. This wasn’t like the time LSU running 
back Leonard Fournette shoved Florida defensive backs coach Torrian Gray in a pregame scuffle this past football season. 
Players are childish all the time. That 
much seems pretty obvious. 
But coaches — especially at a school 
like the University of Florida — should 
hold themselves to higher standards. 
 The now-infamous softball push: Why UF's coach deserves more of the blame
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12SOFTBALL: UF 15, BCU 7
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Midﬁ  elder Sydney Pirreca controlled the ball af-
ter a successful clear attempt.  
The Gators were trailing Maryland 2-0 with 
17:46 left in the ﬁ  rst half and were looking for a 
way to get past Terps goalie Megan Taylor, who 
had seven saves already.
After getting past her defender, Pirreca shot the 
ball towards Taylor.
It found Taylor’s stick for her eighth save of 
the game. 
The Maryland goalie's saves were the highlight 
of the game for the Terrapins, who denied Florida 
early and often on just about every shot the Gators took. 
Behind Taylor’s career-high 20 saves, 15 of 
which came in the ﬁ  rst half, No. 1 Maryland (10-0) defeated No. 3 Florida 18-8 on Wednesday in Gainesville. 
“We played a terriﬁ  c Maryland team today,” 
coach Amanda O’Leary said. “They had an answer 
for us all afternoon, and we did not force them out 
of their comfort zone.”
Before the loss, Florida (8-2, 2-0 Big East) boast-
ed the NCAA’s best scoring offense with 16.67 goals per game. 
For most of the game, the Gators had no answer 
for Taylor, as it took Florida 14 minutes to score its ﬁ  rst goal. 
On offense, attacker Lindsey Ronbeck was the Gators l acrosse 
team falls to 
No.1 MarylandBy Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Bethune-Cookman’s Yvonne Siordia 
hit a pop up toward second baseman 
Nicole DeWitt. 
Even though it looked like an easy out, 
Siordia kept running — a good choice on her part. DeWitt couldn’t make the catch, and as the ball dropped onto the ﬁ  eld, the Wildcats' third run of the ﬁ  rst inning crossed home plate.
The three runs marked the ﬁ  rst time 
since 2006 that the Wildcats scored on the Gators, and they weren't done. 
Meanwhile, UF shortstop Sophia 
Reynoso also committed an error in the 
ﬁ  rst inning. The pair of errors made for 
Florida’s seventh and eighth errors all 
season. Add on another error later in the game, and the three miscues were the most the Gators have committed in a 
single game this year. 
“I don’t think we were our best," coach 
Tim Walton said. "Clearly.” 
With the midweek game having started 
so uncharacteristically for the Gators, the team needed to respond.
It did, converting nine runs on eight 
hits in the bottom of the ﬁ  rst. The Wild-
cats had no response, and No. 2 Florida (30-2) beat Bethune-Cookman (12-24) by a score of 15-7 in ﬁ  ve innings at Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium.
“I don’t know if we came out our 
sharpest ready to play, but I thought (we) Bethune-Cookman no pushover for UF 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Jordan Roberts bats during Florida's 15-7 win over Bethune-Cookman on Wednesday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
SEE LAX,  PAGE 15 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Email cover letter and resume to Trisha Carey · tcarey@alligator.orgHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTEDHELP WANTED
Responsibilities
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night. 
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production 
department, and coordinate newspaper design 
and layout with content from student editors. Requirements
• Knowledge of newspaper design is a plus.
• Expereience working with students is a plus.
• Must have expereience with Adobe software.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring. 
Schedule changes during summer semester.Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
The Alligator is an equal opportunity employer. Great work atmosphere. Modest salary. 
No phone calls, please. Must be willing to begin working late April or early May.
only player who was able to consistently ﬁ  nd the 
back of the net, providing four of Florida’s eight goals. Attacker Shayna Pirreca scored two goals, and midﬁ  elders Allie Pavinelli and Brianna Harris also recorded one apiece. 
On defense, however, the Gators fell apart, 
amassing 55 fouls and giving Maryland seven free-position goals on 14 free-position shots. The Gators also collected nine yellow cards. 
Despite outshooting Maryland 37-36 and win-
ning the ground ball game 17-11, Florida lost in draw controls 19-9, which led to the Terps easily going on runs throughout the game. 
Maryland was led by ﬁ  ve goals from midﬁ  elder 
Zoe Stukenberg and hat tricks from attackers Megan Whittle, Caroline Steele and Brindi Grifﬁ  n. 
The game was close for most of the ﬁ  rst half, 
with Florida tying the score at 2-2 with 12:14 left. But Maryland regained the lead on a 4-1 run to end the half.
Even with the strong defensive play from both 
sides in the ﬁ  rst 30 minutes, Maryland took over in the end.
Florida was held to 13 shots in the second half, 
and committed eight turnovers. 
And throughout the game, Taylor continued to 
stiﬂ  e UF's offense, ﬁ  nishing with a .714 save per-centage. 
Up next for the Gators, they'll host Vanderbilt 
(5-3, 2-0 Big East) on Saturday. The Commodores enter the game 3-1 over their last four games, in-cluding a 22-4 win against Butler and a close 14-12 
victory over Villanova. 
Vanderbilt is led by attacker Kayla Peterson with 
24 goals and midﬁ  elder Julie Blaze with 20 goals. 
On defense, Margaret Fee leads the team with 11 caused turnovers.
“We have a lot to work on before hosting a great 
Vanderbilt team,” O’Leary said.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org LAX,  from pg. 14UF had 55 fouls
did a good job of responding with the nine 
runs,” Walton said.
The offense began with a three-run 
homer by freshman Jordan Roberts, her 
ﬁ  fth of the season. The Gators followed 
with a two-RBI single to center ﬁ  eld from 
Justine McLean. The senior from Rancho Cucamonga, California, now has 11 on the season. After that, it was DeWitt who smacked a three-run homer to center ﬁ  eld 
that pushed Florida’s lead to 9-3.
Every starter batted in the inning at 
least once.
“Coming back from the 3-0 in the ﬁ  rst 
inning was really important to us,” junior Kayli Kvistad said. “It was a great ﬁ  ght 
from both teams.” 
Florida tallied another four runs in the 
second inning to extend its lead. Aleshia 
Ocasio, Amanda Lorenz and DeWitt were 
walked, which helped the Gators score off 
a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y from McLean and a single 
from Kvistad.
After the ﬁ  rst two innings, Florida’s 
bats went fairly quiet. Brooke Clemens 
hammered her ﬁ  rst home run of the sea-
son to left ﬁ  eld in the third inning, and 
Jacqui Switzer bunted her way on base in the fourth. Switzer evetually reached third and stole home off a Wildcats wild pitch.
Bethune-Cookman’s response came in 
the top of the fourth inning, when it scored four runs. After loading the bases with one out, sophomore Brianna Sanders hit a two-RBI double to left center ﬁ  eld. Two batters later, Siordia followed suit with a two-RBI single. 
Despite Herndon laying out for a diving 
catch in right ﬁ  eld, the four runs scored in the inning were the most an opposing team has scored against the Gators in one 
inning all season.
“Coming back, we knew we had to get 
runners on base, and Jacqui did a great job 
getting that ﬁ  rst hit,” Kvistad said. 
Overall, both teams had a strong offensive game. Florida will look to roll this offense into the weekend when the 
team travels to Fayetteville to face SEC foe 
No. 23 Arkansas on Friday.
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Clemens hit her irst home run of the year
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Brooke Clemens runs during Florida's win over Bethune-Cookman on Friday.
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2017
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
There’s a lot at stake for the No. 3 Florida 
gymnastics team, which will have to notch 
one of the top two scores at this weekend’s regional meet to advance to the NCAA Championship on April 14. 
But for new team members, the stakes are 
just as high when it comes to annual team ritual that sophomore Alicia Boren is espe-cially looking forward to. 
The regional tournament incorporates bye 
periods where teams aren’t performing, so to keep their muscles warm and their attitudes light during those off rotations, the Gators have each of the newcom-ers perform a dance in front of everyone on the 
sideline.
Last year, Boren per-
formed a Florida Dazzlers-
inspired routine.
“It went really good, 
actually,” Boren said. 
Florida coach Jenny 
Rowland, who also had to participate last season, said that while she thought she was 
a good dancer, she couldn’t say the same for 
assistant coach Owen Field.
“That was really rough,” Rowland said. 
“We actually had to tell him that he could stop. That’s how ‘awesome’ it was.”
The ritual is one way to help keep Florida 
ready for a meet where, in the past, the 
team’s energy hasn’t been as high as usual.
Boren, though, is someone who has had 
high energy all season long. 
The sophomore is the only Gator who has 
competed as an all-around entry in every one 
of the team’s 11 meets so far, which earned her ﬁ  rst team NACGC Regular-Season All-American honors on all-around, vault and ﬂ  oor and a spot on the All-SEC team.
But competing in 44 events over such a 
short period of time has taken a toll on the Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, native, so having the last two weeks off from competition has helped refresh her heading into Saturday’s regional.
“It was really nice,” Boren said. “I do put 
a lot into the meet mentally, even more so than physically. So it was really good to just have a break.” 
But break or not, Boren and the rest of the 
Gators know regionals will be difﬁ  cult. 
“Regionals is always a tough meet,” junior 
Alex McMurtry said. “It’s kind of a loss of momentum coming off a down week, but this is the time for us to pick up momentum again 
and go into NCAAs conﬁ  dent and strong.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Boren, UF gymnastics team waltzing into regionals
Boren
