We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF athletic department silent on 
Spencer
Our columnist argues the department should follow Luke Del Rio’s lead and condemn, pg. 14Amid protests, rest of campus quiet
Students pledged good deeds with Chabad, pg. 3
Get ready for Pupperween
Dogs dressed up for a competition at The Swamp, pg. 10
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 25
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Contributor
Hundreds of protesters yell, chant and display signs on their initial approach to the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday. See the photo story on pgs. 8 and 9. 
OUTSIDE THE PHILLIPS CENTER INSIDE THE PHILLIPS CENTER
Staff Report 
Syleena Powell went to bed listening to 
whirring police helicopters ﬂ  ying overhead.
On Thursday morning, Powell woke up 
anxious, just a few hours ahead of white su-
premacist Richard Spencer’s speech on UF’s 
campus. 
By 12:45 p.m., about 2,500 people, mainly 
protesters, ﬂ  ooded Southwest 34th Street near 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, located at 3201 Hull Road, to make clear  to  Spencer his radical beliefs don’t belong in Gainesville.  
“It wouldn’t feel right just staying home 
when literal change is happening in our back-
yard,” said Powell, a 22-year-old UF African-
American studies senior.
Over Powell’s head, an airplane ﬂ  ew in 
between overcast clouds, casting a banner high that read, “Love Conquers hate! Love will Prevail!” Troopers stood on the roofs of the nearby Southwest Recreation Center and the Harn Museum of Art to keep watch over protests. 
As she stood among pockets of protesters, 
Powell exhaled. 
“All of this here did not start with Rich-
ard Spencer, and it will not end with Richard Spencer,” she said. 
As early as 10 a.m., protesters gathered 
at the corner of Southwest 34th Street and Southwest 20th Avenue. Groups including Women’s March of Gainesville, No Nazis at UF and National Women’s Liberation made signs and passed out water bottles to protest-
ers. 
At 2 p.m., as hundreds of protesters lined 
up for tickets to Spencer’s speech, the group 
chanted, “Whose campus? Our campus,” their voices echoing down the road. By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Heather Monae Jackson wants Richard 
Spencer to know she is not afraid.
The UF international business master’s 
student said she has encountered racism be-
fore in her hometown of Polk County.
Jackson, 22, got the emails from UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs urging students not to at-tend Thursday’s event hosted by the National Policy Institute. Still, she couldn’t imagine herself anywhere else but in the audience at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts at 2:30 p.m.
“As the president, (Fuchs) has to do his 
job but, as a student of color, I didn’t think he was talking to me,” she said. “It didn’t ap-ply.”
She said all students of color should have attended the event.
“There’s no other place for you to be,” she 
said. “If you are a student of color on this 
campus, you should be here.”
When Spencer came out onto the stage, 
Jackson and a majority of the more than 
400 people who attended Spencer’s speech 
stood with their ﬁ  sts raised and chanted, “Go 
home, Spencer.”
“I’m not going home,” Spencer respond-
ed.
As the chanting continued, Spencer told 
the crowd they were childish.
“This is the best recruitment tool you 
could give us,” Spencer said. “They don’t 
hear anything you’re saying. All they hear is a bunch of shrieking and grunting morons.”
Randy Reddell held up a sign with a pic-Protesters take a stand, out-
number Spencer supportersSpencer speech derailed, drowned out by booing crowd ‘WHOSE CAMPUS?’ ‘OUR CAMPUS’
SEE OUTSIDE,  PAGE 4 SEE INSIDE,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
HIGH  85° LOW  65°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s “on-time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Apply well before the dead-
line. to ensure the federal pro-
cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-
sistance with completing your 
FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid advis-er at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
GatorNights: World of Color
Come celebrate UF’s World of Color with sand art, body paint and a canvas painting class. Take a ride on the ballistic swings or express yourself at Spoken Word Open Mic Night. GatorNights 
will bring its colors out in the 
dark with glow sticks and salsa lessons from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Create your own friendship bracelets or take a trip across the globe with the Arab Students’ Association with their event Arabian Nights in the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 
11:30 p.m. The featured film is “Atomic Blonde,” showing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate and 
are allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event.
Fall Day of Service
The David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service is holding a Fall 2017 Day of Service on Saturday. Join several hundred volunteers for a 
day of reflection and service for 
a wide variety of nonprofits, in-cluding Keep Alachua Beautiful, Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more information, call 352-392-
1215, email cls@leadershipand-
service.ufl.edu or visit bit.ly/daysofservice.
Night of Dance
UF HealthStreet, a community engagement program, will host its second annual Night of Dance on Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
in downtown Gainesville on 
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. The event will be an evening of live music, dancing, wellness and food trucks. Last year, more than 500 community members attended. This is a free event that is open to all ages. Come learn some new dance moves 
from live performers, eat local 
food and learn more about your health from the free wellness re-sources. For more information, visit healthstreet.program.ufl.edu/.
What I Did this Summer: Seedy 
AdventuresMeet Melissa DeSa, a self-de-
scribed local seed-aholic and 
biodiversity addict. Learn why seeds are important for the fu-ture and get a taste of the trav-els and connections that have been made over the last few years. The workshop will be held Monday from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Forage & Working Food, 
located at 219 NW 10th Ave. The 
workshop is free to the public, but donations are always wel-come at the door. For more infor-mation, visit workingfood.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 25
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Friends ofthe
Library
LibraryFriends ofthe
Library
Most prices 25¢ to $4
In 64 categories such as Mystery, Sci-Fi, comics, 
manga, non-ﬁction, education, cook books, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records, and more
Bring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlySat. October  21 9am - 6pm
Sun. October  22 noon - 6pm
Mon. October  23 noon - 6pm
Tues. October  24 noon - 6pm
Wed. October  25 noon - 6pm
T ue/s.end1/2
pric/e.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.end1/21/21/21/2
pric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.end
We/d.end ever/y.end We/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.end
thin/g.end10¢
ever/y.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end10¢10¢10¢10¢
FOLACLD.org
@FOLACLDBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
.com/FOLACLD@FOLACLD
430 N. Main St.
By Camille Respess 
and Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writers
As thousands of protesters gathered around 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts 
before white supremacist Richard Spencer’s speech Thursday, Rabbi Berl Goldman asked students on a quiet campus if they’d like to do a good deed.
Gathered on the Plaza of the Americas, 
members of the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center asked passersby to pledge a good deed as part of their Good Deeds Marathon, which lasted four hours.
Participants were able to write their name, 
a good deed and a message of love. Individuals taped their messages on a world map on the plaza, ﬁ  lling up the large board.
“Tell my wife I love her,” “Hug a troubled 
friend,” “Call my grandparents” and “Spread 
love and respect to everyone” were all written on the board.
UF President Kent Fuchs wrote, “To love 
even those who hate” and taped it on the 
board. 
The Daily Stormer, a white supremacist 
website, posted an outlined plan for supporters of Spencer to follow Thursday. The guide in-structed individuals who could not get into the Phillips Center to stage ﬂ  ash demonstrations in public places, including the Lubavitch Chabad 
Jewish Center, the Institute of Black Culture, 
The Gainesville Sun and a Starbucks on Archer Road. Goldman, the director of Chabad, said the threats were just a fear tactic. However, Chabad increased its security Thursday and 
extended its hours. 
“Not only have we not shut our doors, 
which many people thought we would, but we 
have been resilient and proud and extended our hours to give our students and community 
a safe haven to turn to,” Goldman said.  
Amber Grafft-Weiss baked cookies the morning of Spencer’s event. 
The UF archeology doctoral candidate said 
she didn’t want to meet aggression with more 
aggression, so she sat at a table on Turlington 
Plaza with two friends, displayed homemade 
signs and handed out cookies. 
“When you get the opportunity to ﬁ  ght Na-
zis in your lifetime, you show up for that,” the 39-year-old said. 
They were the only protesters on Turling-
ton Plaza all day. 
Fuchs said he felt it was important to pre-
vent people like Spencer from shutting down the campus. Although classes weren’t can-celed, Fuchs said it did seem the event had driven people away.
“It’s been an eerie feeling having the cam-
pus so quiet,” Fuchs said. “I really miss having all the students and everyone walking around. That disturbs me that we are not as vibrant as we always are.” 
Overall, Fuchs said he felt the day went as 
well as it could have. 
“We’ve learned a lot from how he and oth-
ers have come to other universities,” he said. “Someone will now learn a lot from us.” 
Fuchs said UF’s uniﬁ  cation and messages of 
love overpowered Spencer’s speech. 
“All of us can try to attract some good out of 
this,” Fuchs said. “In the end I think we will be 
stronger and better, at least I hope so.”
When Aditta Riha walked around campus 
Wednesday, she said she wasn’t comforted 
by the overwhelming presence of law enforce-ment.
“I don’t personally trust law enforcement 
anymore,” the 21-year-old said.
The UF family, youth and community sci-
ences senior works at the ofﬁ  ce of academic support on campus, but she didn’t show up 
to work Thursday because she feared for her 
safety, she said. 
Like Riha, Other Personnel Service (OPS) 
staff at UF will not receive pay if they chose to stay home from work Thursday. The Alachua 
County Labor Coalition urged people to call UF 
and rally for OPS employees to receive a paid day off Thursday in light of Spencer’s arrival. 
Most OPS workers are people of color and 
women, wrote Jeremiah Tattersall, the union 
liaison for the labor coalition, in an email. 
“We thought it was an oversight and 
reached out to UF, and we quickly realized 
that it’s UF’s standard operating procedure to 
mistreat their OPS workers,” he said. 
Although Tattersall doesn’t think Fuchs 
should have allowed Spencer to come in the 
ﬁ  rst place, he thinks Fuchs should’ve at least canceled classes, he said. Not doing so created an unsafe work environment for employees, 
Tattersall said. 
Jodi Gentry, the vice president of UF human 
resources, wrote in an email the safety of fac-
ulty, staff and students is UF’s No. 1 priority. Paid days off were not offered to any workers, 
Gentry said.
“Temporary OPS hourly employees are 
paid for hours worked,” Gentry wrote. “This 
is consistent and long-standing throughout the State University System.”
Riha was not satisﬁ  ed with UF’s response. 
“Honestly, UF, like, you just keep disap-
pointing your students,” she said. “You don’t really truly care about our safety.” On a quiet campus, students pledge good deeds
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Tyler Ellman, a 22-year-old UF theatre and telecommunication ﬁ  fth year, and Rabbi Berl 
Goldman, 46, take a selﬁ  e with students participating in the Good Deed Marathon.
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017Mariam Mohamad, a 19-year-old UF phi-
losophy and women’s studies student, said she 
and other protesters were turned away for hav-ing phone numbers written on their arms or being a visible minority.
Mohamad said she was denied entry for 
having emergency contacts scribbled on her forearm. When she offered to wash them off, the distributors laughed in her face, she said.
“I mean, it’s clear they’re systematically 
denying entry to people who they think will disagree with them,” she said. 
Juan Paniza, a UF history junior who wore 
a walking boot on his left leg, said he was 
turned away by event organizers who thought 
he could use his crutches as a weapon. 
“It’s obvious that they haven’t heard about 
the American Disabilities Act, but it’s whatev-er,” the 20-year-old said.
William Fears, 29, identified himself as 
a Spencer supporter and said he heard him speak twice before, once at Texas A&M and once in Charlottesville, Virginia, this summer.  
Compared to the vast number of protesters, 
Fears was one of few Spencer supporters who came to the event.
On Thursday, Fears said he traveled to 
Gainesville from Houston, Texas, for the speech. 
“I wasn’t for segregation at first,” Fears 
said. “But it doesn’t seem like we’re gonna be able to get along.”
Fears said he’s concerned about the future 
of America and the white race. He’s worried his children might live in a country where white people “become the minority.”
Protests were almost entirely peaceful 
Thursday, with the exception of a few instanc-es where crowds of more than 100 chased after Spencer supporters. Five injuries were record-ed and treated by fire rescue teams. Law en-
forcement officers arrested two men, according to a joint press release. Sean Brijmohan, 28, 
of Orlando, was charged with possession of a firearm on school property, and David Notte, 
34, of Gainesville, was charged with resisting 
an officer without violence. Notte was issued a trespass warning.
At about 3 p.m., a man wearing a T-shirt 
decorated with swastikas walked in the crowd of protesters, who pushed him toward po-lice. Other Spencer supporters were also sur-rounded by people shouting expletives and “Nazi scum” as they followed them to police 
barricades. Some urged the crowd not to be-
come violent. The swastika-wearing man was shoved by multiple protesters, and witnesses saw a protester punch him in the mouth. 
At about 4:30 p.m., another Spencer sup-
porter walked out of the event to a crowd of more than 500 protesters that flooded Hull Road. Protesters chased the man eastward on Hull Road until he hopped over a barricade and 
was handcuffed by police and escorted away.
As most protesters chased after the man 
wearing a swastika, some approached Larry 
Green, a Westminster Presbyterian Church pastor. 
Wearing a clerical collar over a sweat-pud-
dled purple shirt, Green said he attended the protest to offer support. He hugged and prayed with anyone who asked him to, he said.
“When I realized most clerical groups in the 
community decided not to come, I knew that I needed to be here,” the 47-year-old said, add-ing Spencer’s message is the opposite of every-thing Christianity teaches. 
As Alex Tepperman stood in front of the 
Phillips Center, he held up his white sign and looked at what he had taped onto it: a rain-bow-colored Star of David.
And then he sighed.“It’s kind of a miserable experience to con-
front people who want you wiped off the face of the Earth,” he said.
Tepperman, a 34-year-old UF doctoral stu-
dent, said he woke up Thursday feeling con-flicted about whether to attend.
“Normally Nazis wouldn’t be a very signifi-
cant concern of mine,” he said. “But we have 
to start taking Nazis seriously.”
Outside the Harn Museum on Hull Road, 
about an hour before Spencer’s speech, a 
group of five people from East Gainesville played a beat from their phones and started rapping verses to a homemade track about what modern racism would look like if a white man could be in a black man’s shoes.
Remy Ferrara pointed to his skin as to why 
he and his friends came out to protest Spencer. As a black man, Ferrara, 24, said he had an obligation to protest.
“We’re being told to ignore it, but we’ve got 
to be here,” Ferrara said. “I understand why he has the right to speak, but that doesn’t mean we’re not gonna be here; we’re going to keep coming … Here we are.” 
On the days leading up to Spencer’s visit, 
Juan Lozano’s cellphone blew up. The UF pub-lic relations senior planned to protest, but his family begged him to drive home to Miami for the weekend. 
In a text message, Lozano’s mom told him 
she was holding the rosary in front of her mouth praying for his safety. Six alarming ex-clamation marks punctuated the message.
As a result, Lozano, 22, walked with his 
sign that read “Mom! I’m OK.”
As a small smile danced on his face, Lozano 
sighed and said, “Moms will be moms.” He then narrowed his eyes, getting serious, and added, “But I had to come. Today is a fight day, not a flight day.” 
Oggi Parry, a UF computer science senior, 
protested Spencer with his body wrapped in an American flag and wearing red, white and blue 
sunglasses. He said he believes American ide-
als are not inherently racist.
Parry said he voted for President Donald 
Trump in the recent presidential elections and wanted to show others that Trump supporters don’t align with Spencer’s views. “Conservative views are not (Spencer’s) 
views,” the 21-year-old said. “We are not with him.”
As Spencer took the stage at the Phillips 
Center, Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe watched on a Florida Department of Law Enforcement livestream from about six miles away at the city emergency center in the Gainesville Pub-lic Works Department, located at 405 NW 39th Ave. Poe said he felt “dirty” while watching Spencer’s speech. 
“It was nothing but division and hatred 
and everything we stand against here in Gainesville,” he said. 
Poe said he was proud of the protests, which 
he felt were entirely peaceful and expressed a message of love that contrasted Spencer’s hate.
“The No. 1 thing, the thing that guys like 
me lose sleep over, is whether or not things will get violent, and that didn’t happen,” he said. “It was a message of unity, inclusiveness 
and common, universal love.” 
After the crowd finished filing into the 
Phillips Center to hear Spencer speak, Wanda 
Nelson, 54, stood outside with her handmade sign. “God is love,” it read. A red heart was drawn next to the words.
“To me,” she said, looking down at her 
sign, “this means love is the answer.”
Nelson, a Gainesville resident, said she felt 
nervous about coming to the protests. But once she arrived, she said she realized there was no reason to worry. 
The chants from protesters had died down 
slightly. One protester leaving the crowd saw Nelson’s sign and asked to take a picture with her. Nelson smiled.
“It’s not about who can yell the loudest,” 
she said. “People’s hearts have to change. 
That’s the bottom line.” 
Ian Cohen, Romy Ellenbogen, David Hoff-
man and Jimena Tavel contributed to this 
report. 
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Richard Spencer speaks on stage at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday. 
There were 456 tickets given out, and the majority of attendees were protesters.
Nearly 2,500 came out to protest around the Phillips CenterSpencer called audience morons and childish for protesting
OUTSIDE,  from pg. 1ture of NPI organizer Cameron Padgett.
“Im (sic) Cameron Padgett and Im (sic) 
a racist piece of s---,” Reddell’s sign read.
During the event, his sign was ripped 
into pieces by a Spencer supporter behind 
him.
Padgett picked up the pieces of his sign 
and continued to hold it up when police removed him from the room. He was is-sued a trespass warning from UF’s cam-pus.
Police in riot gear watched as the tense 
shouting match between audience mem-bers and Spencer’s group continued. 
Eli Mosley, the leader of Identity Evro-
pa — which the Anti-Defamation League identifies as a white supremacist group — took the microphone from Padgett as the crowd booed louder.
“We are here today at the University 
of Florida because we would like to talk to students and the nation as a whole be-cause we know eyes are on us,” he said. “We will represent you, white America.”
The audience was mostly made up of 
protesters. Days before the event, NPI an-nounced it would distribute tickets but stated it wanted the audience to be made up of people with a diversity of opinions. 
Michael Presley Bobbitt, a Gainesville 
resident and playwright, was one of the first people to get tickets for the event. While the 41-year-old said he doesn’t ap-prove of violence or Nazis, he said Spencer is still entitled to his freedom of speech.
“There’s free speech all the way or 
there’s no free speech,” he said. “I’m not 
sure if we had collectively ignored this 
idiot, maybe things would have been dif-ferent.”
Sam Hyde, a UF classical studies soph-
omore, said he attended to learn what 
terms like Nazi, white supremacist and 
identitarian mean. 
“I just wanted to see what the hubbub 
was about,” the 19-year-old said. 
Spencer called the Thursday event 
the most important free speech event in 
the audience members’ lifetimes. He was 
angered when people chanted, “F--- you, 
Spencer” in response.
“Do you not want to hear something, 
you poor babies, that might contradict 
with what your professors say? Are any of 
you willing to think at all?” he said.
Chants and screams echoed among the 
crowd as Spencer supporters and protest-
ers fought among themselves. 
Ryley Valenti, a UF theatre senior who 
identifies as androgynous, was called a “tranny” by a Spencer supporter. Valenti 
said she thought protesters did a good job 
expressing their points, but Spencer was 
disrespectful. 
“The answers he gave us weren’t very 
satisfactory,” the 23-year-old said. “We are Americans. That’s what ties us togeth-
er, not our skin color.”
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgINSIDE,  from pg. 1FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com
12 PC SUPER TAILGATE
GO GATORS!GO GATORS!
$5 off  with 
this ad
Sat., October 21, 2017
6 PM – 10 PM
Location:
First Magnitude Brewing
1220 SE Veitch St.
$20 Entry Fee
$25 at the door
Register at:
www.eventbrite.com- $300 in Cash Prizes
-  Free First Magnitude Brewery 
pint glass for all entrants
- Massive T ournament  
Championship Trophy
- Best Costume Contest with  
$50 Cash Prize
- Relish Food Truck- Live Music- PokeStop
Fun for the whole 
family. UF Students, 
Fraternities, and 
Sororities all Welcome!By Robert Lewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
After helping Nobel Prize in Physics-win-
ning scientists discover gravitational waves, 
UF’s design helped observe a new gravitation-al wave.
LIGO, or Laser Interferometer Gravitation-
al-Wave Observatory, is a laboratory made up of scientists from different institutions work-ing to observe gravitational waves. UF created the LIGO’s lenses and developed an algorithm for data analyzation, according to Alligator ar-chives. 
About two months ago, LIGO detected 
the merging of two neutron stars, said David Reitze, the executive director of the LIGO labo-
ratory. This was the ﬁ  rst time an event that 
produced observed gravitational waves also produced something visual — light. 
Reitze said the waves produced by the neu-
tron stars are different from those produced by black holes merging, which was observed four times.
Roughly four hours after LIGO detected the 
neutron star collision, scientists conﬁ  rmed the event and could identify where it occurred in the sky, he said. 
“This event was the most intensive obser-
vation event in the history of astronomy,” Rei-tze said. 
Simon Barke, a UF researcher, works with 
the LISA lab, which will send equipment into space for observation.
Barke said if it weren’t for LIGO, no one 
would have noticed the collision of neutron stars had taken place.
Reitze said UF was essential to the discov-
ery, which made waves across the scientiﬁ  c community.
“It’s a combination of feeling stunned and 
relieved,” Reitze said. “A combination of ‘wow’ and relief and satisfaction that we built 
these detectors that work.”UF helps in space discovery
By Allison Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
After 38 years of teaching, Esther Lynn 
Mauffray was recognized Tuesday by Gov. 
Rick Scott.
“It’s just amazing,” said Mauffray, who 
teaches 15 students who are visually im-
paired. “I’m so honored.”
Mauffray works with preschool to high 
school aged students on skills such as ori-
entation, mobility and Braille to help them adjust to daily life.
She is one of eight who were given the 
Governor’s Shine Award for their impactful career contributions to education, accord-ing to a press release by the Governor’s 
staff. 
“I always say I have the best teaching 
job in Alachua County,” Mauffray said. 
“Every independence that my students show is an emotional highlight for me.”Regina Currens, Mauffray’s supervisor, 
said she was a perfect candidate for the award.
“Her knowledge and skill level is amaz-
ing when it comes to this ﬁ  eld,” Currens said. 
Scott also recognized Renee Andrews 
of P.K. Yonge Developmental Research School, located at 1080 SW 11th St.
Andrews, the assistant university school 
professor of marine and Advanced Place-ment environmental sciences, has been 
teaching for 26 years. 
“Every day is another adventure,” An-
drews said. “ I enjoy seeing them have an 
aha moment.”
She and Mauffray said keeping up with 
past students is one of the most rewarding parts of their jobs. 
“This award is for inspirational teach-
ers, and it made me feel good because I like 
to think I inspire kids,” Andrews said. Teachers receive recognition
POLICE ARE UNSURE IF THE 
SHOOTING WAS RELATED TO 
RICHARD SPENCER’S EVENT.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
An hour after white supremacist Richard 
Spencer’s speech ended on UF’s campus, a gunshot was ﬁ  red at the corner of Southwest 
Archer Road and Southwest 34th Street, police said
Two groups of people began arguing shortly 
before 5:30 p.m. in the parking lot of the CVS on the opposite corner of the intersection, said 
Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias at a Thursday afternoon press confer-ence. One group was walking on foot and the other was in a silver Jeep. After the argument, as one of the groups sat 
down at the bus stop at the southeast corner of the intersection, the Jeep approached the group and witnesses watched a white man step out of the vehicle, open ﬁ  re on the group and leave with his group in the car, according 
to a GPD press release. 
Tobias said police are unsure whether the 
shooting was connected to the Spencer speak-
ing event or related protests. “Anything is possible at this point,” he said. Forensic Crime Unit investigators recovered 
a single shell casing of the bullet ﬁ  red. 
Police are still looking for the silver Jeep 
and believe the back window may have been broken. The content of the argument and/or 
reason of the shooting are also still unknown 
at this time, Tobias said. 
No injuries were reported. 
@hoffdavid123GPD: Gunshot ﬁ  red at Southwest 34th and Archer intersectionThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORThank you for     
helping spread love
On Thursday, in the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts, Richard Spencer tried to speak. 
And you told him, “No.” There were 456 tickets distributed to protesters and 
supporters alike. For 1 1/2 hours, you denied him his 
platform and called him out on his racist bullshit. Spencer tried to spread his message of hate.
And you told him, “No.”
You shut him up and sent him on his way. We wouldn’t call 
that statement editorializing, because we saw it happen. We 
livestreamed every second of it for everyone to see, and we’re 
glad we did.
We read the comments, and a couple of people reacted nega-
tively to the decision to make the speech public. Readers argued 
we shouldn’t be giving him a platform he doesn’t deserve or that leaving him alone would render him powerless. We disagree with both these sentiments, and we’d like to assure you, dear reader, our decision was not in the interest of likes and shares but of love 
and change. 
We are a student newspaper. In the newsroom, the prospect 
of going viral or getting national attention doesn’t really cross 
our minds while we’re in the ﬁ  eld trying to meet deadline (The most petty we get in that regard is comparing our Twitter follow-
er counts). We are storytellers ﬁ  rst and foremost; we will cover 
events as they happen. If we don’t inform, then we haven’t done our job. We will not ignore an event to make a point; to do so 
would be a disservice to our readers. 
We do not believe ignoring Spencer and his band of racists 
will make them go away either. That is a dangerous, foolish as-sumption to make. They are not passive. They pose threats to 
people of color, the LBGTQ+ community and anyone who’s not a white male. To “not give them attention” is to turn a blind eye 
to the violence they incite — to accept it. That cannot happen. 
We must cover these kinds of events, even if they go unopposed.
So, if an event spreads hate, then that hate will carve our 
story.
But if you, dear readers, step up and challenge those events 
with protest and passion, that will carve our story instead. The 
community is what guides our stories, not an agenda or an ob-
ligation.
This is what happened Thursday. 
As a result of nonviolent protest, about 152,000 people tuned 
into our livestream to see Spencer refuted and shut down by 
more than 200 people inside the center. That, to us, is not giving 
Spencer a platform. That is giving those who tuned in, especially 
those who felt too threatened to leave their homes, hope. The livestream, thanks to you, is irrefutable proof that love conquers 
all — it’s as simple as that. That is why we set up this livestream: 
because we trusted you to conquer him with love.
We did not want to write about bigotry Thursday, and your 
calls to action lifted that burden from us. For that, we thank you, because now our writers have written stories of love and union 
instead. That’s why we’re passionate about journalism: love. We 
implore you, dear readers, to continue spreading love, to con-
tinue protesting, to continue making your voices heard. 
Whether you know it, you, the community, are leading us by 
the reins. And we will follow you; it’s what we love to do. So let 
us follow you to exciting and loving places. Let us hear what you have to say about brotherhood and speaking out against hatred. 
Give us the pleasure of telling your stories of revolution.
Just make sure we get your name, age and major before you 
go.Shutting down Spencer’s movement
As I write this at nearly 11 p.m. Thursday, 
it’s been only a few hours since racist Rich-
ard Spencer spoke on UF’s campus and 
failed miserably to divide our community.
I am immensely proud of how UF and 
Gainesville turned a potentially dangerous situa-tion into a peaceful outcome worthy of emulation. 
The whole world was watching, and the whole 
world saw how we responded to a hateful and de-spicable bully.
It is worth noting, however, that this happened 
despite divisions over how we should respond. This presents an opportunity to consider some deeper issues related to hate speech, freedom of speech and ﬁ  nancial burden and come up with some longer-term solutions.
We are united in our rejection of Spencer’s white suprem-
acist message. We are divided on how his message can be ef-fectively thwarted so his movement does not gain in followers and momentum. 
My position is past protest strategies don’t thwart Spen-
cer but rather provide fuel on which his racism and white 
supremacy will blaze brighter and hotter. We need a new 
strategy, or we risk winning the local battle by shutting down his speech and chasing his followers out of town — yet losing the larger war for the hearts and minds of the public, and his 
movement of racism and hate will grow.
First, there’s the issue of if UF should and could have 
banned him from speaking on our campus. Had we done that, 
it wouldn’t have thwarted his movement, but it would have spared us from direct exposure to him and his followers. But 
as long as we could provide reasonable security on campus 
then we could not legally bar him from renting our facilities and speaking. Fighting him in court was not an option once there was a possibility of adequate security, despite the cost.
Could we have indirectly blocked Spencer from speaking 
by requiring him to pay the more than $600,000 in security costs, which provided nearly 1,000 law enforcement ofﬁ  cers across our campus? Again, the answer is simply no.  This question was litigated and decided by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in 1992 and is known as the legal doctrine of the “heckler’s veto.” 
Although answers to the ﬁ  rst two issues are 
clear, an even more important issue remains. How 
can we thwart Spencer’s movement, not just for the few hours he was on campus, but forever?
I argue old strategies of protest, which include 
shutting down Spencer and chasing his followers 
out of town, are exactly what white supremacists 
need to attract attention and followers.  For Spen-cer and his ilk, I believe the right strategy is to 1) shun the speaker, his followers and his events, and 
2) as loud as possible, speak up with acts of inclusion and love and messages rejecting racism and white nationalism.
For example, members of the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish 
Center headed by Rabbi Berl Goldman shunned Spencer and his event, and on Thursday, courageously held a Good Deed 
Marathon on Turlington Plaza. Rabbi Berl Goldman said on 
Chabad.org, “Despite the negative energy that some people are bringing to our city on Thursday, it’s important that we do our part to counter that with random acts of love and kind-ness, which can chase away much of the darkness.”
UF students created #TogetherUF and held a Virtual As-
sembly about race relations and diversity during Spencer’s event. The assembly had twice as many participants as Spen-cer had tickets distributed. Those who attended the virtual 
assembly were shunning Spencer and instead discussed the 
values and truth that have power to thwart his movement.
A plane ﬂ  ew over the Phillips Center for the  with a ban-
ner reading, “Love conquers hate! Love will prevail!” A mu-ral on the 34th Street Wall had the word “Diversity” in an 
American ﬂ  ag with stripes representing people’s different skin 
colors. Children made diversity afﬁ  rming chalk drawings on sidewalks. 
There are many ways students, faculty and staff have stood 
up to white supremacists with counter messages of love and 
inclusion with the power to bring Spencer’s movement to an 
end.  We are all, particularly me, learning how to most effec-tively counter evil with good. If you have thoughts, I would love to hear from you. My email is kent.fuchs@uﬂ  .edu. If you 
would like to discuss in person, please let me know.
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
This past week Kaká, an 
Orlando City Soccer Club star and worldwide soccer 
icon, announced he will 
not be returning to the 
team next season. The decision is not at all shocking, consider-
ing the Lions’ recent mediocrity, 
but it does leave the club look-ing at quite a bleak future faced with the daunting task of ﬁ  lling the massive void Kaká’s departure is bound 
to create.
For the last two years, Kaká has been 
playing out his own little version of David 
Beckham’s famous splash into American 
soccer. Both cases involved massive inter-
national stars signing expensive and highly publicized deals with average MLS teams, all with the hope of giving the sport a des-perately needed push toward mainstream 
relevancy. The results of both experiments 
should not be considered complete failures, but they were both far from successful.
Signing foreign soccer stars to bloated 
and disproportionate contracts is not un-usual for the sport. However, placing the weight of being the sport’s savior and sole catalyst in promoting the country’s seventh most popular sport on a single player is ab-
surd. How many more failed instances like 
Beckham and Kaká are we going to subject ourselves to before we realize the sport is doomed in America?
Sure, American soccer has certainly gar-
nered a few more fans in recent years, but it is not solely the result of these pricey European visitors. MLS’ modest ascent in recent years should be credited more to the 
small, but thriving, culture and the fantas-
tic marketing by the league. Fan bases for most American soccer clubs are small but mighty groups. Their numbers pale in com-
parison to the most mediocre college foot-
ball programs, but their loyalty and passion is arguably superior. Soccer in the Paciﬁ  c northwest, speciﬁ  cally the Seattle Sound-ers FC and Portland Timbers, has reached 
levels of fanfare almost comparable to Eu-
ropean clubs. This level of fanaticism has failed to spread across the continent, in-stead occupying rather isolated (but intense) pockets of support, peppered across the nation.
There is nothing wrong with 
the sport itself. If there was, it wouldn’t be the most popular sport on the planet. The reality 
is, while soccer’s popularity in 
the U.S. increased from 3 percent in 1985 to 6 percent in 2014, it still ranks seventh overall in the 
country.
Soccer will always have an uphill battle 
in the U.S., not only because it is a nation saturated with sports, but also because of history. Had soccer obtained more support 
early on — late 1800s/early 1900s — it 
likely would be as popular as it is across the pond. The problem is, over the 20th century, football, baseball and basketball cemented themselves in the country’s col-
lective culture and identity.
So what about soccer? Why has it failed 
in the U.S.? A popular argument is it is a 
90-minute snore, with a ﬁ  nal score of 2-3 
considered a high-scoring game, and the 
typical, impatient American simply doesn’t have the attention span for it. However, if this were the case and American attentive-ness was the issue, then baseball would be 
the least popular sport, which it certainly 
is not.
I believe soccer’s shortcoming in Amer-
ica has nothing to do with any ﬂ  aws in 
the sport itself. Soccer is a simple and, at 
times, beautiful game. The problem is there isn’t any room at the table for it. America is bursting at the seams with sports, and the big three at the top are not going anywhere 
anytime soon. This is not necessarily a bad 
thing. Soccer can still thrive on an individ-ual level, occupying a unique niche in vari-ous passionate communities countrywide. 
Soccer will never be a top sport in the U.S., 
but if the camaraderie, loyalty and love of the game is all there, then I’d say you have a sport doing just ﬁ  ne.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.Soccer does not have to be 
popular to succeed in AmericaColumn
I’m the type of person who 
needs a plan. And then a backup plan, with a back-
up backup plan — just in 
case. I like to be prepared.
Now maybe you think this 
column is going to be about 
my realization that I don’t 
need to plan, that I can live life on the edge. Maybe I had some life-changing journey and realized by the power of my quirky 
personality I can get by the rest of my 
life without making plans and making backup plans.
It’s not going to be about that.
I will admit, I often get stuck in a bit 
of a rut, afraid to act until I’m ready. 
But to quote Daniel Handler under the pen name Lemony Snicket, “If we wait until we’re ready, we’ll be waiting for 
the rest of our lives.” That hits me es-
pecially hard these days: I don’t want to test my code until I think it’s going to be perfect; I don’t want to write my paper 
because I haven’t found the right source 
or the right location to sit. I know when it comes to bad anxiety, I should repeat that mantra and act.
But that’s not what I want to discuss. 
I want to discuss why the trope of be-ing carefree, spontaneous and flexible is the ideal. So many movies start with a stiff workaholic who doesn’t know how 
to live, who plans their daily life and 
then they meet a hot lady, hot man or young kid who shows them living with-out a plan is fun. It’s good, and it frees you from responsibilities. Look up any 
movie with Zooey Deschanel as the lead 
actress and most, if not all, romantic comedy movies.
The same thing goes for introverted 
characters. It seems the biggest accom-plishment an introverted, quiet fictional character makes is becoming outgo-ing like their hot lady, hot man or best friend and learning that partying and 
other large social settings are totally 
cool. Teen staples like “The Perks of Be-ing a Wallflower” and “She’s All That” pride themselves on the mes-sage: Hey, uncool teen, you need cool friends!
It is the social ideal to be 
extroverted and spontaneous.
In her novel, “Quiet: The 
Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking,” and 
its resulting TED Talk, Susan 
Cain talks about being an in-trovert in a society that values extroversion. Introverts are ca-
pable of great ideas, she argues, and we should let them work in the ways that best allow those ideas to naturally oc-cur.
I agree, and I’d like to further elab-
orate. Cain talks a lot about work and school environments, but I want to ex-amine things from a recreational and social perspective. It is hammered in 
us that we cannot truly experience life 
unless we live in the moment. We are told unless we have a solid “squad” of friends, we don’t really experience friendship. It is in our books, our mov-
ies and our televisions that you should 
go to the beaten road and make friends with strangers at parties because you’re not living until you do those things.
I think the modern standard by which 
to measure a fulfilling life is skewed so vastly in favor of spontaneous extro-verts — or at least the standard that is reflected in modern millennials. We 
need to take a step back and realize 
that comparing oneself to a standard de-signed for others is a fatal error. What we introverts, what we planners, should 
define as our own fulfilling recreational 
and social lives and what the rest of so-ciety needs to realize, as well — taking a cue from the end of Cain’s TED Talk — is there is no right or wrong way to 
be social. We can work in harmony, two 
halves of the whole human experience.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English 
and computer science (super) senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.An introvert’s reﬂ  ection: Society 
favors the outgoing and spontaneousColumn
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
BANDING TOGETHER: Protesters swarm the Phillips Center
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Alan Alvarez / Alligator StaffAlan Alvarez / Alligator StaffLindsey Crown / Alligator Staff Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff 
Zachariah Chou / Alligator
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Jordan Bourne / Alligator1
2 34 5
6 7
81. Calvin Kilby (center), a 31-year-old T ampa resident, and a crowd of protestors chant, “No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA” on the UF Cultural Plaza on 
Thursday. 2. Elizabeth Kramer, a 22-year-old University of South Florida student and affiliate of the Freedom Road Socialist Organization, chants, “The people 
united will never be divided, ” in unison with the crowd of protesters on the UF Cultural Plaza. 3. John Nunes, a local Gainesville resident, leads the “No Nazis 
at UF” protest march. “Showing up here and saying ‘no’ to Nazis is an absolute moral obligation, ” Nunes said. 4. Richard Spencer protesters march toward the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts holding a “Gators not Haters” sign. 5. Protesters yell toward the Phillips Center as people began to enter for Richard 
Spencer’s speech. Law enforcement stood in front of the crowd to ensure no one could get past the barricades. 6. A Nazi supporter is pushed off the UF 
Cultural Plaza by a crowd of protesters as they walk west toward Southwest 34th Street while a man walks beside, attempting to engage in a dialogue about his ideology. 7. A man hugs a man wearing swastika apparel. 8. Police in riot gear were stationed at the intersection of Southwest 34th Street and Hull Road, 
where most of the protesters accessed the secure area. 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sunny, a 10-week-old gold-
endoodle dressed in an Oktober-
fest outﬁ  t, had no expectations of 
winning a dog costume contest 
Wednesday.
His owner, Adam Langley, 
placed a Robin Hood-looking cap 
on Sunny’s head and sat on the 
patio of The Swamp Restaurant, located at 1642 W. University Ave., with a beer and friends at about 5 p.m., judging the other dogs’ cos-
tumes during Barktoberfest Yappy 
Hour.
“Winning would be great, but 
we are trying to stay humble over 
here,” Langley said.
The Swamp collected donations 
in exchange for entry in a rafﬂ  e for 
various prizes, including donated dog toys and stuffed animals. The 
$400 raised was given to the Ala-
chua County Humane Society. The restaurant tries to give $5,000 a year to ACHS, said Ryan Prodesky, 
the manager of The Swamp.
Finn, a 10-month-old shih tzu, 
won ﬁ  rst place in a cardboard box 
with holes for his legs, head and 
tail. With ﬁ  ve balloons ﬂ  oating over his head, he didn’t ﬂ  y away. His owner was dressed as Russell, the junior wilderness explorer.
The staff of the restaurant voted 
to ﬁ  nd the most liked costumes, Prodesky said. 
“(The voting process) is not 
scientiﬁ  c,” he said. “But it’s very 
precise.”
More than 35 dogs entered the 
contest, which was free to partici-
pate in.
Dogs and their owners were 
able to eat and drink, as there was a special menu for dogs. The Barky Burger, Corn Pup and B------’ Chicken were $5. The Doggone 
Salmon was $12. All of the dishes 
were served on orange Frisbees, which the dogs got to keep.
Baylor Cherry, a UF journalism 
senior, works at the restaurant as part of the marketing team and helped plan the event. Cherry, 21, said the dog menu was successful because it was also human food.
“We treat dogs like humans 
here,” she said.
Prodesky said the customers 
and employees both enjoyed seeing 
the dogs participating in costumes.
“It’s good to do events like 
this,” he said. “There’s too much 
negativity in the world, and this takes people’s attention off of it.”The Swamp Restaurant hosts costume contest for dogs
Gaby Eseverri / Alligator Contributor
Smidge and Creek, who are 11-week-old puppies, wear sombreros and colorful ponchos. The brother 
and sister competed in a dog costume contest at The Swamp Restaurant’s Barktoberfest Yappy Hour. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com  1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
2/1 + office
across from beef unit great street very quiet. $775 month. W/d hookup large screened porch. 3522581752     10-23-17-2-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.
Family business in Alachua.
Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      
10-27-17-7-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.
The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 - 20 hours / week. Fast & accurate typ-
ing required. Send resume to combehserv@
gmail.com    10-30-17-5-14
Elder and special needs law firm seek-
ing a receptionist for a part-time position. Candidate should be familiar with Microsoft Office, be comfortable on the phone, and have reliable transportation. Please email resume and cover letter to amandam@millerelderlawfirm.com.     10-30-17-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)COMEDY CLUB Not Needed! Go To:   https://shortstoriesforthetwisted.com/ Enjoy!                                            10-20-4-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Kind of rain or
rock
5 Affect profoundly
8 Often-converted
residence
12 Like the “funny
bone” nerve
14 Poet Silverstein
15 Declare firmly
16 Early sustenance
for Bruce Wayne?
18 Country where
Quechua isspoken
19 Great Plains
native
20 Pluto quintet
21 Gets on the
wrong train, say
22 Handing a St.
Louis team an
embarrassingloss?
26 Mother with a
Nobel prize
27 Fight in the
backwoods
28 Vacation fill-in:
Abbr.
29 Message often
included in its
response
32 Central Dallas?
33 Tribal VIP’s
family?
37 Elastic wood40 Sister magazine
of Jet
41 God with a quiver45 Where the groom
may walk downthe aisle
47 Soi-__: self-
styled
49 Easy out in
rodent baseball?
53 Components of
56-Across
54 Quartet member55 Org. with
Jungians
56 Malt creations57 Went all out on
stage ... or a hintto the four otherlongest puzzleanswers
59 Ticket booth sight60 Protected, in a
way
61 Sister of Thalia62 Hardy heroine63 Perception-
changing drug
64 Letter heading
abbr.DOWN
1 Masters course
2 Fabled emperor’s
lack
3 Emotionally
overwhelmed
4 Morse “T”5 “Can’t you 
take __?”
6 Like Roald Dahl,
by birth
7 Yellowstone
grazer
8 Settings for small
American flags
9 Do to death
10 Voice of
President
Business in “The
Lego Movie”
11 Bridge supports13 “Ghostbusters”
actor
14 Air quality issue17 Lisa’s title23 Team whose
mascot’s head isa baseball
24 Viking history VIP25 Island near Java29 Confessional
music genre
30 Anthropologist’s
subject
31 Whichever34 Give a hand
35 Assist badly?
36 Storied loch
37 It might be on the
road for years
38 Cop’s info source
39 Stumbles (upon)42 Snare drum
sound
43 Feature of many
a birdie
44 Secure, as a
knapsack46 Smooches
47 Glen relative
48 “__ these wars
for Egypt”:
Antony
50 Shapes formed by
angled spotlights
51 Zeroed in
52 Telecommuter’s
workplace
57 Clarke computer58 Nest egg
acronym
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/20/1710/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Wing it
6 Doing battle
11 Quarterback
Brady
14 “Fun With Dick
and Jane” (2005)
actress
15 Hourglass, e.g.
16 Political
commentator
Navarro
17 Southern dish, so
we hear
19 Tap site
20 Justice Dept.
branch
21 Fair
22 What “A” is for, in
Sue Grafton’s
mystery series
24 Hot rod?
25 World’s
navigable waters,so we hear?
27 __ Friday30 Savory Chinese
snack
31 Manufacturing
facility
32 Manhattan
developer?
33 #1 texting pal36 Welcome relief,
so we hear
41 Sevilla sun42 Nice way to say
no?
43 __ signs44 “I bet!”47 Composes, as
music for a poem
48 Suggestive
dance, so wehear
50 Put on51 Hindu class52 Works on walls53 Nursery
complaint
56 __ Dhabi
57 Warning hint, so
we hear
61 “Little ol’ me?”
62 “Middlemarch”
novelist
63 Flowed back64 Soup cooker65 Criticize sharply66 Butch and
SundancechasersDOWN
1 Goya’s “Duchess
of __”
2 Muscle used to
raise your hand in
school, for short
3 Lollygag4 “Monsters, __”
5 Spokesperson’s
route?
6 Till now7 In those days
8 Gum ball9 Galaxy download
10 Maintain, as roads11 Bookie’s work12 Last non-AD yr.
13 Tricks
18 Wicked23 Cut of lamb24 Belted out25 Burn slightly
26 They may ring or
have rings
27 Calculating pros
28 Plus29 Outfit with bell-
bottom trousers
30 Steak named for
its shape
34 Bravo automaker
35 Dough used in
baklava37 Letter-shaped
fastener
38 One might be
made of sheets
and pillows
39 Exceed, as a
boundary
40 Bris, e.g.45 Flop’s opposite
46 Gushed
47 Go it alone
48 Rapscallion
49 Just not done50 Quick with
comebacks
52 Funk
53 Halloween 
decor
54 All in favor
55 Literary alter ego58 Stadium cry59 Wrestler Flair
nicknamed “TheNature Boy”
60 “Entourage”
channel
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/1710/19/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 19, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Would’s cousin
1.  Inferior, in bad shape5.  Most senior
2.  Requested, directed to6.  Domain, world
3.  Lassoes 7.  Famous inventor 
4.  Archer, or “2001” DaveOLUSHD
HSDDYORLEOD
EARML
REREODD
TSRLIAAONDIES
WMBNOAANSWERS: 1A-Should  5A-Older  6A-Realm  7A-Edison
1D-Shoddy  2D-Ordered  3D-Lariats  4D-Bowman  B-Hollywood10-20-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ was incorporated as 
a municipality in 1903.
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment
Caroline Knop and the rest of 
the Gators volleyball players are looking to bounce back from their ﬁ  rst loss tonight when they play at Alabama. Read the story, pg. 15. Gators linebacker says he'll be on Fox News on Friday
Florida redshirt sophomore Danny Weldon posted on Twitter Thursday 
night that he'll be a part of the channel's programming: "Make sure to watch me live tomorrow morning on Fox & Friends!"Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Staff Report
The halfway point in the season is 
upon us, and Florida is already limping 
to the ﬁ  nish with a 3-3 record. Luckily for the Gators, they have a bye week, giving their fans a chance to have at least 
one fall Saturday without inevitable dis-
appointment. With a looming matchup against No. 3 Georgia, things are look-ing bleak for the Gators’ season. But is it time to ofﬁ  cially declare Florida’s 2017 campaign is over? That’s for our writers to decide. Before we make our picks for this weekend’s college football games, alligatorSports editor Matt Brannon and 
assistant editor Dylan Dixon are going 
to debate whether Florida’s season is al-ready over.
Florida’s season is over because … The Gators are debilitated by injuries, 
suspensions and a lack of talent on their roster.
Although there’s still ﬁ  ve games re-
maining on its schedule, the 2017 Flor-ida football team is the equivalent of a stray kitten that just ran onto the middle of Interstate 75 during rush hour.
It isn’t dead yet, but any moment an 
18-wheeler is going to come ﬂ  ying up the freeway and pulverize the unsuspecting baby feline into a mixture of blood, guts and wasted potential.
UF is all but guaranteed to fall to 
Georgia next weekend, and a loss would mathematically eliminate it from the SEC East title race. With Florida having no shot at winning its conference cham-pionship, is there really anything left to play for? I think not. This season is of-ﬁ  cially a lost cause.
- Dylan Dixon
Florida’s season isn’t over yet … 
Sure, the Gators won’t win a na-
tional championship this year. And yes, fans expected more out of Jim McEl-wain’s third season as head coach. And of course, Florida’s lucky to even have 
three wins after squeaking by against 
Tennessee and Kentucky. But it’s not time to push the panic button yet. UF is supposed to be an institution of higher learning, so if we look at the team’s situ-ation mathematically, Florida still has a PICKS
BYE WEEK EDITION: HEADING 
INTO OFF WEEK, IS FLORIDA'S 
SEASON ALREADY OVER?
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
The University of Florida sat 
still on Thursday. Classes contin-ued on like normal, but campus felt dead. Or at least, everywhere except its southwest corner. That’s 
where white nationalist Richard 
Spencer’s speech attracted atten-tion and sparked confrontations between his small number of sup-porters and hundreds of protesters. The event was one of the biggest spectacles in recent university memory, with more than half a million dollars spent on security. 
But if you took a peek at most 
Twitter accounts associated with UF athletics, you’d have no idea it happened. 
That means one of two things. Either UF’s athletic 
department is so social-ly unaware of what’s happening in its com-munity that this slipped 
by without them notic-
ing or caring, or com-mentary on Spencer’s appearance was for-bidden. In either case, quarterback Luke Del Rio deserves credit. 
Del Rio tweeted “Let hate fall 
on deaf ears today #SpencerAtUF” 
at 10:18 Thursday morning. As of 
8:30 p.m., it had over 500 retweets and 2,000 likes. He also lashed out at conservative pundit Ben Shapiro, who said Spencer got exactly what he wanted with atten-tion from UF students. “I’m pretty sure today was a far cry from what #SpencerAtUF ide-
ally wanted,” Del Rio 
tweeted, “But thanks for the insult.”
He later deleted the 
reply, but still, he did what his higher-ups wouldn’t.
There were other players who 
did their part as well. T.J. Mc-
Coy and Martez Ivey retweeted 
president Fuchs’ condemnation. Vosean Joseph tweeted “#UFTo-gether.” Jake Allen urged fellow students to be safe. The UF football account? Athletics director Scott Stricklin? Silence. It was the one event in Gainesville that required helicopters aside from one of their precious football games, and they 
couldn’t be bothered to address it. 
Even the school’s main athlet-
ics account, @FloridaGators, said 
nothing. On the bright side, it wasn’t tweeting trivial — at least in this context — statistics and athletics updates. But silence is unacceptable for an institution so inextricably linked to the univer-
sity and to Gainesville. And I don’t 
necessarily mean it needed to con-demn Spencer and his speech. 
Sure, condemnation would be As athletic department stays quiet, QB condemns Spencer Sweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriAlligator File Photo
Florida quarterback Luke Del Rio was the highest-proﬁ  le Gator athlete to condemn Richard Spencer's speaking event Thursday.
SOCCER: UF 2, UK 0
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Sarah Troccoli took the ball into the attack-
ing third, cut inside from the left ﬂ  ank and ﬁ  red 
a shot 18 yards from goal just before halftime. The junior midﬁ  elder’s shot curled over the head of Kentucky goalkeeper Abigail Zoeller 
and dipped under the bar, giving Troccoli her 
ﬁ  rst goal of the season.
“I didn’t realize that was her ﬁ  rst goal,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said in a release. “It came at a good time because it was nice to go into the locker room with a lead instead of 0-0.”
The goal also broke Florida’s 238-minute 
scoreless streak, as the Gators took down Ken-tucky, 2-0, at Embry-Riddle University in Day-
tona Beach.
The match was moved to Embry-Riddle due 
to the controversial speaking arrangements of 
Richard Spencer on UF’s campus, but the un-familiar facilities and two-hour bus ride didn’t affect the Gators’ performance. 
“It was a little bit of an odd day. A 5 o’clock 
start, a neutral site,” Burleigh said. “But again, I think we handled it pretty well.”
UF played a staunch, defensive ﬁ  rst half 
where it didn’t register many offensive oppor-
tunities but nearly held the Wildcats shotless. 
The ﬁ  rst Kentucky shot came 10 seconds 
before halftime, just after the Gators took the 
lead on Troccoli’s strike. The Florida press  Gators defeat Kentucky in Daytona BeachSEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The No. 4 Gators are looking to re-
bound from a 3-1 home loss at the hands 
of then-No. 8 Kentucky on Sunday.
It was Florida’s first defeat of the sea-
son and ended its three-week run as the nation’s top-ranked team.
“We want to be peaking in December 
and not October, so for us to put that loss 
behind us will be really important,” senior 
Caroline Knop said. “We just have to be a little bit cleaner in some spots.”
The Gators (14-1, 6-1 SEC) will spend 
the next few days in Alabama, stopping 
first in Tuscaloosa for a match against the 
Crimson Tide tonight at 8 and then in Au-burn, where they face the Tigers at 2:30 
p.m. on Sunday.
Alabama (14-7, 2-5 SEC) is coming off 
a 3-1 loss at LSU on Sunday and has strug-
gled offensively, ranking 12th in the SEC in hitting percentage. 
Alabama runs its offense through out-
side hitter Christine Jarman (196 kills) 
and middle blockers Leah Lawrence (204 
kills) and Hayley McSparin (179 kills). Lawrence also leads the Crimson Tide in service aces and blocks.
Meanwhile, Auburn (11-7, 4-5 SEC) is 
looking to end a four-match skid on Sun-day. The Tigers’ most recent setback came in the form of a 3-1 loss to South Carolina on Wednesday.
The trio of Gwyn Jones (188 kills), Shaina White (184) and Brenna McIlroy (184) has helped Auburn average 13.7 kills per set, the fourth-best rate in the SEC.
Defensively, Auburn is third in the con-
ference in digs but is last in blocks per set.
Fortunately for the Gators, they have 
Rhamat Alhassan and Rachael Kramer to lean on this weekend.
“They’re growing together this year 
and becoming a huge force for us,” assis-
tant coach Dave Boos said before the team 
left Gainesville.
Alhassan and Kramer are second and 
third, respectively, in kills for the Gators.
Alhassan ranks third in the nation in 
blocks per set and both Kramer (11th) and Alhassan (13th) rank in the top 15 nation-
ally in hitting percentage.
Senior Carli Snyder is the team’s most 
productive player overall, however.
“She does pretty much everything you 
could ask,” Boos said. “You know, great server, defender, passer, attacker. She’s got a lot of toughness in her.”
Snyder leads Florida’s offensive attack 
with a team-high 179 kills and is also sec-
ond in digs. She leads the Gators in serv-
ing as well, ranking seventh in the NCAA in service aces per set.
“Carli truly can do it all,” Knop said. 
“She makes everything flow very well and 
is extremely fun to play next to.”
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgGators face ‘Bama tonight coming off season’s first loss
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
After taking two weeks to practice what 
they learned at the Riviera ITA All-Ameri-
can Championships, Florida’s women’s ten-nis players traveled to Atlanta on Thursday for their next tournament. The Gators will play in the ITA Southeast Regional Cham-pionships — a competition that includes 17 schools from Florida and Georgia.
The Regional Championships, hosted by 
Georgia Tech, mark the Gators’ fourth tour-nament of the season.
Last year, senior Josie Kuhlman and 
now-graduated Belinda Woolcock captured the doubles title in the Southeast Regional Championship in a three-set match against Eleni Christofi and Kennedy Shaffer of Geor-gia.
This year, qualifying action began on 
Thursday with the main draw starting on Friday morning.
The Gators will start competition on Fri-
day in the main draw of singles play. Seniors Peggy Porter, Anna Danilina, Brooke Austin and freshman Katie Kubicz are representing the Gators in Atlanta.
This season, the women’s team is 15-13 
in singles play and 3-3 in doubles play.
“Matches are really good, win or lose,” 
coach Roland Thornqvist said. “They tell the tale of what it is we need to improve. Sometimes when we play points in practice, it’s not the same pressure, so tendencies are more easily masked.”
Doubles play will begin at 9 a.m. on Fri-
day with the round of 32 in the main draw. 
The duo of Danilina and Porter will take 
on No. 8-ranked pair of Andrea Lazaro and Mina Markovic of Florida International. The 
pair of No. 3-ranked Austin and Kubicz will 
compete against Jemi Aguilar and Naiya 
Oden of Florida Atlantic. 
Singles play will follow, starting with the 
Round of 64 at 11 a.m. 
The first matches for singles play will 
feature No. 5-ranked Austin vs. Arianne de 
Winter of Georgia Southern and Kubicz vs. 
Arijana Korac of Stetson. 
Porter will take the court at 12:30 p.m. 
against Nicole Dzenga of South Florida. No. 
2-ranked Danilina will follow against Brooke 
Milner of Stetson at 2 p.m. 
Florida’s players will also be battling 
for a spot in the Oracle ITA Fall National Championships in Indian Wells, California. 
No one on the women’s team has claimed a 
spot so far, only adding to the pressure for 
the defending national champions.
“It will be interesting to see how well we 
can support each other and how well we can 
do as a team,” Danilina said. “I think we 
have really good players and I’m excited to 
see how the freshmen do.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgBy River Wells
Sports Writer
 
After a 25-day break, the Florida men’s 
and women’s swimming and diving teams will face the Texas Longhorns and the Indi-ana Hoosiers on Friday and Saturday in the O’Connell Center.  
The Gators, after placing first in the All-
Florida Invitational for the eighth consecu-tive year, haven’t been completely idle dur-ing their break. On Oct. 7, both teams held their annual awards banquet to honor the team members for their athletic performanc-es, academic achievements and leadership.
The Giovanni Linscheer award, given to 
the swimmer who “contributed the most to the overall success of the team,” was award-ed to Jan Switkowski on the men’s team and Hannah Burns on the women’s team. The Skip Foster Award, given to the most valu-able swimmer, went to Caeleb Dressel on the men’s team and Savanna Faulconer on the women’s team.
Both UF teams were also ranked in the 
CSCAA-TYR preseason poll. The men were ranked No. 4, and the women were ranked No. 18. Last year, the men’s team ended the season tied for No. 5 with Stanford, while the women’s team finished No. 20.
The Gators will see tough competition this 
weekend, with both the men’s and women’s teams facing ranked opponents. Three-time defending men’s champions Texas heralds a top-three program on 
both teams, with its men ranked No. 2 in the nation and its women ranked No. 3. In-diana also boasts impressive teams, with its men’s team ranked No. 6 in the nation and its women’s team ranked No. 10. Last year, the Hoosier men’s team swept the board, de-
feating the Gators 181-100 on Day 1 and 204-
77 on Day 2. The women’s team excelled as 
well, defeating Florida 150-131 on Day 1 and 
183-98 on Day 2. The Gators were defeated 
by Texas in both of their matchups.
There is also a key difference in how 
the event will work this year. Last year, the 
swimmers competed in a long course meters 
pool, or a pool 50 meters in length, on the first day, and a short course yards 
pool, or a pool 25 yards in length, on the second day. 
This year, however, the 
Texas/Indiana tri-meet will exclusively feature 
short course yards swim-
ming this time around.
“I’m excited for this meet. Texas and In-
diana are high caliber teams,” sophomore 
Kelly Fertel said. “I think we’re definitely 
looking forward to improving as a team. Last 
year we came short of our goals, so this year 
we’re very motivated to succeed.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgWomen’s team in Atlanta for 
regional championship eventIndiana, Texas facing UF 
tonight in O’Connell CenterAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF libero Caroline Knop and the rest of the Gators are trying to move on from losing 
to Kentucky. “For us, to put that loss behind us will be really important, ” Knop said. 
TENNIS SWIMMINGVOLLEYBALL
Fertel
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2017
ideal. No matter where you are on the political 
spectrum, Richard Spencer’s ideas are disgust-ing, and no entity should feel bad for saying so. Especially an entity that’s so important here. Still, I can understand why there wouldn’t be 
condemnation. Many sports fans don’t like poli-
tics/the real world mixing with sports, even if the message is as revolting as Spencer’s. Fine. 
But come on. Not even an acknowledge-
ment? Allen said he wished for folks to stay safe. The athletic department he plays for could at least do that much. That’s why it could learn from Del Rio.
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Florida’s injured 
quarterback has spoken candidly about non-sports issues on Twitter, or in general. I remem-ber talking to him at media day about how con-cussions were affecting the sport. He told me it was legitimately scary, and I could hear the sincerity in his voice. His coach, meanwhile, told me about how glad he was that UF is doing research on the subject without addressing the problem when I asked him the same question. 
Again, UF’s athletic department can learn some-
thing about authenticity from Del Rio. 
But who am I kidding? UF’s athletic depart-
ment doesn’t value authenticity. It values im-age. That’s why it makes its football players wear Gators golf shirts for press conferences no matter what they show up wearing themselves. It’s all about uniformity and making the brand look proper and sterile. 
Even considering that goal, the university 
president was all over the airwaves condemn-ing Spencer, and he arguably speaks for the school’s brand as much — or more — than the athletic department does. The athletic depart-ment’s own vision statement says it’s supposed to elevate that brand, so where the hell was it on Thursday?
I’ll tell you where. Cowering in fear of judg-
ment. In fear of appearing off-brand by speaking candidly about a real-world issue rather than embracing roboticism. Well, if judgment for tak-
ing a stand — or at least making an acknowl-
edgment — is what its leaders were afraid of, I 
hope they’re scared as hell now. Because they 
deserve to be judged for this, and they deserve 
to be found guilty.COLUMN,  from pg. 14UF QB speaks out
shot at making the SEC Championship Game. If the Gators go undefeated in the SEC for the rest of the season and Georgia drops at least one conference game (potentially to Auburn), McElwain will be back in Atlanta for the third 
consecutive year. That’s pretty cool, isn’t it?
- Matt Brannon
Now, onto our competitors!
In ﬁ  rst place at 34-21 is 247Sports’ Thom-
as “are we there yet?” Goldkamp, who was 
so annoyed that he has to cover the Gators 
that he ﬂ  ed Florida for the bye week. He says 
he’s off visiting friends out of state, but we know that’s just code for landing in a South Carolina clinker after another one of his moonshine-fueled benders.
Next up at 31-24 is Gator Country’s Nick 
“peaked in high school” de la Torre, who recently posted a grainy photograph of him-self playing baseball at St. Thomas Aquinas. 
While the picture worked ﬁ  ne for “throw-
back” Thursday, Nick is getting so old that soon, he’ll only be able to post about “throw your back out” Thursday.
Tied for third at 30-25 is the Alligator’s 
Ethan “attempted puppy murderer" Bauer, who nearly ran over a puppy with his car Wednesday afternoon and then bragged about it to his fellow colleagues. "Dude, when I saw it, I didn't even try and slow down," he 
boasted with glee. Geez Ethan, that's almost 
as psychotic as the time you interrupted a Jim McElwain press conference to announce you hadn't bathed in six days. Get a grip.
Also at 30-25 is the Orlando Sentinel’s Ed-
gar “I can't believe I have to skip work for this" Thompson, who missed last week's Florida - Texas A&M game because he was "obligated" to go to his sister's wedding. Ed-
gar wasn't too pleased, as you can probably 
surmise from his nickname. But let's face it. It was the least he could do for his sister, Cary, who stuck by his side for years while battled his addiction with Rogaine. She deserves bet-ter from a brother.
In ﬁ  fth at 29-26 is the Gainesville Sun’s 
Graham “zero credibility” Hall, who was excoriated by a writer from The Associated 
Press on Saturday after he incorrectly tweet-
ed that Florida football is off to its worst start since the 1980s. Graham, not only were you wrong, but you were off by more than 10 years — which is the amount of time it’ll take before your already questionable reputation recovers.
After Graham at 27-28 is the Alligator’s 
Ian “religious persecution” Cohen, who punched his ticket to hell Wednesday when he said he’s annoyed that Feleipe Franks talks about God after every game. Ian says no one wants to read about God. Hey Ian, you 
know what the best-selling book of all time 
is? A little thing called the Bible. Maybe if you spent more time repenting and less time complaining, God wouldn’t curse you with perpetual pessimism.
And now, we get to the Alligator’s two 
pathetic sports editors, who are in a tie for piss-poor last.
First at 24-31 is Matt "I'm a clown and 
I'm proud" Brannon, who recently revealed to a colleague he likes to powder his face white and wear a red wig on his head while he parades around his living room in over-sized clothing. Some might think that's un-usual, but for Matt, it's just another day in his wacky life.
Also at 24-31 is Dylan "anything for 
Aaron Rodgers" Dixon, who hasn’t been 
seen or heard from since the Packers’ quar-
terback broke his collarbone last weekend. Legend has it that Dylan tried to donate his collarbone for a transplant, but was rejected when doctors realized his bones are weaker than the average toothpick.
Find out picks for each game online at
 alligator.org/sports.
PICKS,  from pg. 14kept the Wildcats from building 
any meaningful attacks, causing 
turnovers and allowing UF to dominate the ball for the dura-tion of the half.
“It was a little slow in the be-
ginning,” Troccoli said in a press release. “But then we talked about pressing higher up at half-time so we kind of picked it up.”
Troccoli’s goal also caused 
Kentucky to play a more aggres-
sive style, making it more vul-
nerable to counter attacks in the second half.In the 52nd minute, another 
substitute, freshman Madison Alexander, exploited UK’s vul-nerability. 
Alexander controlled the ball 
atop the Wildcats’ 18-yard box on a pass from redshirt senior Gabby Seiler and riﬂ  ed it into 
the top-right corner. 
“We put a challenge to the 
team to score a goal in the ﬁ  rst 
15 minutes in the second half,” 
Burleigh said. “So it was kind of 
nice to see that two players that 
came off the bench could make 
a big difference.”
Alexander’s goal proved to 
be the insurance that Florida needed to see out the match, but 
that didn’t stop the goal-starved Gators from trying to add to their tally. 
Florida recorded 10 second-
half shots, putting four on goal and even rattling two off of the post. Seiler nearly replicated Al-
exander’s goal in the 66th min-
ute and junior defender Sara Wilson almost deﬂ  ected in a Briana Solis shot going wide just 
before full time, but both were 
saved by the woodwork.  
By the end of the match, UF 
registered more shots on goal 
(7) than Kentucky had total 
shots (6) as Florida limited the Wildcats to only three meaning-
ful chances on goalkeeper Kay-lan Marckese, who registered her ﬁ  fth clean sheet since re-turning to the starting lineup on Sept. 14. 
“We had some really big 
game changers that went into 
the game that upped the ur-
gency,” Burleigh said. “I think it was a good team effort, and obviously that’s favorable for us 
Sunday as well because we’ve 
got a quick turnaround.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org 
SOCCER,  from pg. 13Gators beat Wildcats in neutral-site matchup