We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 94 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
Does UF’s signing class matter?
The Gators ﬁ  nished strong, but can they 
compete with Alabama? See our column, pg. 15
Local businesses raise money for ACLU
In light of immigration ban, a beneﬁ  t
 concert was held Wednesday, pg. 3
City Commission plans to improve internet speed 
Gainesville has the highest rate in the state, pg. 4FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain strolled into his scheduled 
press conference 10 minutes late, passing 
through a tunnel of streamer-waving fans and strutting to the Florida ﬁ  ght song. 
As he made his way to the lectern, he 
sported a smile. He joked with reporters. He greeted the assembled UF cheerleaders along with Albert and Alberta. 
“I can’t tell you how excited I am for the day,” he said when he ﬁ  nally got to the mi-
crophone. “How excited we are as a program, 
how happy I am for the guys who chose to be Gators.”
He was late because minutes earlier he’d 
staged a National Signing Day surprise that stunned fans and reporters alike: snagging four-star wideout James Robinson despite re-ports that he wouldn’t be allowed to enroll at Florida. 
Even without Robinson, though, McEl-
wain had already made a signing day state-ment, picking up signatures from four new players on Wednesday, including two of UF’s top three commits. 
Robinson, however, along with the sub-
sequent signing of three-star running back Adarius Lemons, punctuated a signing day vault that catapulted the Gators from the na-tion’s No. 19 recruiting class to No. 10, ac-cording to 247Sports.
The recruiting coup came after McElwain 
took heat from many Florida fans for his al-leged inability to bring in quality prospects, 
which he addressed. 
“I have people in the ofﬁ  ce that say, ‘Mac, 
you’re taking shots from all over the place,” he quipped. “We get a kick out of it, too.”
He added that the players he signed — in 
this class and in past classes — may not have ﬁ  ve stars, but he knows he can work with 
them. 
“Did we get every single guy?” he asked. 
“No.” 
“Did we get a lot of them that maybe some 
other people weren’t recruiting as highly or whatever but we actually had them ranked where we had them ranked in our evalua-tion? “
“Yeah, absolutely.”Besides Robinson, an explosive 6-foot-4 Florida football ﬁ  nishes  strong on signing day
SEE SIGNING,  PAGE 15
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Contributing Writer
After eight years spent just blocks 
from campus, a Gainesville coffee 
shop has moved closer to down-
town — and now it serves beer.
Karma Cream, now located at 
607 W. University Ave., will open its doors today at 8 a.m., in the same space the now-defunct Swift Cycle once occupied.
While its menu of coffee and 
vegan snacks will remain mostly 
unchanged, the shop will now serve 
organic beer on tap and offer ex-panded seating, said owner Kyle Flick. 
An expired lease at its former 
1025 W. University Ave. location, along with a demand for more space spurred the move, Flick said.
“Our last place was pretty small,” 
he said. “Here we have room for more seating and operations.”
The response to the location change on social media has been mostly positive, he added.
“Overall, everyone is pretty ex-
cited,” he said. “This is an up and coming area with all of the nearby apartments and Innovation Square.”
Prices range from $2 to $10, and 
its hours of operation are 9 a.m. to midnight on weekdays, and 11 a.m. to  midnight Saturday and Sunday.
From his apartment at The Con-
tinuum, 23-year-old Sebastian Bel-
loni would walk about half a mile 
once a week to grab his morning coffee.
The move puts his favorite shop 
within 200 yards, he said.
The UF political science graduate 
student said he the former location seemed to be doing well, so he isn’t sure why the owner moved. But he 
isn’t complaining.
“I will be more likely to go grab 
a coffee more frequently since I will 
be able to just walk a block down University Avenue,” he said.  Karma Cream debuts 
new location today
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
A FIXER UPPER
John Young, a UF math and statistics senior, works on a bike at the Student Government Bike Repair 
shop on Wednesday afternoon. Young began working in the SG Bike Repair shop because of his passion for biking.
UF hauled in the 10th-best class
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
An animal rights group has accused UF re-
searchers of violating federal law after they 
cut into the brains of live cats without autho-rization.
In procedures that took place in 2014, the 
researchers placed seven cats under anes-thesia before removing large chunks of their brains, according to an incident report ﬁ  led with UF’s Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. 
The procedures were part of research to 
aid in pneumonia treatments in humans, wrote UF spokesperson Janine Sikes in an email. 
But the researchers weren’t authorized to 
perform the procedures, the report states.
The group, Stop Animal Exploitation Now, 
ﬁ  led a federal complaint Jan. 24 against UF on 
allegations it claims violate the Animal Wel-
fare Act, said the group’s leader Michael Bud-kie.  The complaint was ﬁ  led with the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
The group requested reports from UF re-
searchers that discussed the unauthorized procedure, which then spurred the legal ac-tion. 
The procedures were approved prior to 
2014, the report states. Once the researchers’ error was noted, the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee met in 2016 and deter-
mined the “problem was an oversight.” The 
procedures were approved prior to 2014. 
“This is something that we consider to be Frankensteinian in nature,” Budkie said, “and then we see that for seven of the cats involved 
in this, in this gruesome procedure, the proce-
dure itself was not even approved.” 
According to the report, the incident was 
an isolated case resulting from researchers not reviewing protocol.
The report stated no UF employees were 
reprimanded. 
Sikes said
 UF is committed to following fed-Animal rights group claims UF researchers violated federal law
SEE CAT,  PAGE 4WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’
The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” 
from Friday to Sunday in the 
Constans Theatre. This new play by Canadian playwright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the story of Talbot and Michaud, two Quebec City seminarians from opposing social classes with conflicting ideas about life, religion and art. Tickets for the 
production are $18 for the gen-
eral public, $15 for seniors, UF faculty and UF staff and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Art from the Heart Art Auction 
on Saturday The Council for Exceptional Children and the Gainesville Woman’s Club is hosting the Art from the Heart Art Auction at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, located at 2809 W. University Ave., on Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is a live 
and silent art auction benefit-
ing students with special needs in Alachua County schools. The auction features the work of lo-cal artists, and drinks, live mu-sic and food will be provided by Napolatanos. Join us for our 35th year of art and entertain-ment. Tickets are $25. Purchase 
tickets in advance by contact-
ing Debra at 352-955-7671, ext. 1624, or Jan at 352-538-3067. Tickets may also be purchased at the door. For more information, visit Council For Exceptional Children — Gatorland Chapter 1024’s Facebook page.
International brass festival 
UF’s School of Music is pleased to present the 2017 International Brass Festival on Saturday and Sunday. The two-day event will feature internationally rec-ognized guest artists Nathan Zgonc and Christian Paarup, the U.S. Air Force Band Trombone 
Quartet, the University of 
Tennessee Faculty Brass Quintet and more. The festival includes numerous master classes and recitals and  is open to musi-cians of all ages. The 2017 International Brass Festival will also feature an exhibit room with many popular brass manu-
facturers. All events are free and 
open to the public. For more in-formation, please visit arts.ufl.edu/brassfestival.The Diversity Project
Want to share a story or expe-rience about racial diversity, relations and/or discrimina-tion? The Diversity Project 
will explore issues of diversity 
with a focus on race and class through storytelling and theater. We will provide a safe environ-ment to share your experiences at UF. Your story may be incor-porated into a live theatrical/multimedia performance, which will become a platform for dis-
cussion and possible solutions. 
Students are invited to join Feb. 7 from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2102, and Feb. 8 from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3310. Faculty and Staff are invited Feb. 9 from noon to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2315. 
Please contact Jeffery Pufahl at 
JeffPuf@ufl.edu for more infor-mation.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career Expo The annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be held Feb. 
8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers representing the food, fiber, natural resources and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent em-ployment, as well as representa-
tives of graduate programs and 
professional schools. All stu-dents are encouraged to attend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. For more informa-tion, visit cals.ufl.edu.
Time Warp ‘80s Night at the 
Hippodrome 
Go back in time with the 
Hippodrome State Theatre. On Feb. 8, the Hippodrome will fea-ture a special showing of “When Harry Met Sally.” What better way to welcome Valentine’s Day than with a throwback roman-tic comedy? For more informa-tion or to purchase tickets, call 
the Hippodrome Box Office at 
352-375-4477 or visit tickets.the-hipp.org.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with as-sistance from UF’s Sexual 
Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence 
Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is producing an empowerment-art show and performance-art showcase for the semiannual anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. Artists and performers of all styles are welcome to submit work that evokes themes of re-
covery, healing from trauma, 
self-discovery and love. A pub-lic display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a range of art workshops and art-making opportunities such as a public canvas and storytelling exercis-
es. All couples are welcome to 
participate. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more in-formation.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge The Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the 
UF Student Health Care Center 
are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017 in the Florida Gym on Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. Spring Break tips, in-formation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited quantities available), will be fea-tured. The event will also feature 
a Condom Design Challenge. For 
more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-designchallenge no later than Friday.
352Creates leadership team op-
portunity 
The UF Center for Arts in 
Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 94
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  77° LOW  47°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
ABOUT 130 STUDENTS 
ATTENDED; MORE THAN 
EXPECTED.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When it comes to Donald Trump’s travel 
ban, UF law student Zara Asante said it’s near 
impossible to find someone who could dis-cuss it objectively, without letting their emo-tions show.
The first-year law student didn’t wish to 
judge the ban’s morality, or get into a scream-ing fight; she wanted to find a way to under-stand its legality.“This is one of those topics that everyone 
has an opinion on,” the 34-year-old said, “and I hadn’t encountered someone who could talk about it without getting emotional.”
On Wednesday, Asanta attented a panel 
at UF’s Levin College of Law, where three UF law professors spoke about the legality of Trump’s ban, which entry for citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries.
Faculty members who organized the panel 
had planned to hold the event in a room that holds 73 people, but minutes before the event began, they had to set up a live video feed for 
the crowd of about 130.
The three professors, Darren Hutchinson, 
Berta Hernandez-Truyol and Shalini Ray did 
not make definitive claims about the ban’s lawfulness, but they were apprehensive about certain aspects of it, such as reports of trav-elers being unable to ask for asylum once reaching the U.S.
Ray, who teaches asylum and refugee law, 
discussed how U.S. law creates different types of non-citizens — such as refugees, green card holders and special visa holders.
Hernandez-Truyol, who teaches constitu-
tional law and international law, said there’s nothing wrong with executive orders as long as they don’t break federal laws. But if that happens, there are federal procedures, called 
remedies, that are put in place to help people.
Hernandez-Truyol said she’s reviewed the 
four law suits already filed against Trump’s 
travel ban.“I am very excited to see the level of inter-
est that is on this topic,” she said.
Hutchinson, a remedies professor, said the 
ban could be challenged by citizens who feel 
wronged.
“And frankly the best results come from 
courts of law rather than just hashing it out 
on social media,” Hutchinson said.
Asante, a British citizen, said she’s not in-
terested in staying in the U.S. after witnessing the recent tumultuous political climate. 
“I don’t like this system,” she said. “I’ll 
probably leave quite quickly when I gradu-
ate.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org UF law professors discuss legality of immigration ban
By Brooke Bajgrowicz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two Gainesville High School stu-
dents will travel to Los Angeles after 
winning Best in Show at a regional science fair. 
Amir Helmy and Brindha 
Rathinasabapathi, both 15, will rep-resent Eastside High School at the Intel International Science and Engi-neering Fair in May. 
About 200 students competed in the Regional Science and Engi-neering Fair on Friday at Santa Fe College, said Maureen Shankman, who oversees the students and their projects. Winners were announced Tuesday during a ceremony at Abra-
ham Lincoln Middle School.
Shankman said she was im-
pressed by the knowledge this year’s 
students brought to the fair.
Helmy, who will compete at the 
international fair for the third time, won for developing a smartphone app that analyzes the heart, he said. 
The app is used to predict sei-
zures and heart disease by using an algorithm and a phone’s accelerom-eter, a device that measures motion, to record heart waves. All a user has 
to do is hold the phone in their hand, 
he said.
“The whole year-round I’m trying 
to do cool research,” he said. “Mo-bile health, it’s kind of my thing.”
Rathinasabapathi’s project fo-
cused on potential treatments for hypertension.
Research proved that the Angio-
tensin-converting enzyme, an en-zyme that raises blood pressure, can be stopped with natural supplements instead of medication, she said. 
“This year’s project taught me a 
lot of patience and the ability to not give up on my project,” she said.
Judges searched for students who 
were thorough, understood their content and communicated well, Shankman said.“Being able to take a problem 
from the beginning and then analyze it all the way through and come up with a solution — that’s what we’re looking for in students,” Shankman said.
Helmy said he’s excited to spend 
a few days in LA, but he never goes into the fair expecting to win. 
“I’m just hoping for a good expe-
rience and a good showing, because it’s really next-level stuff,” he said.
 Two students to compete in international science fairCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
3D PRINTING PRACTICE
Jean Bossart, an engineering librarian at UF, picks up a 3D-printed rosebud to show at an “Introduction 
to 3D Printing” workshop in the Marston Science Library on Wednesday. More than 20 people attended the workshop and received 3D-printing vouchers, worth $3, for the Marston Science Library.
THEY’RE SEEKING $12,000 ON 
GOFUNDME.
By Isaac Heller 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
If all goes according to plan, a student-built “hy-
perloop” pod will make possible a 30-minute, 750-
mph trip from Miami to Orlando.
Sebastian Quesada, 26, and more than two dozen 
other UF students who make up the group Gator-
loop, want to revolutionize transportation by build-
ing a pod that works like tubes at a bank drive-thru, the UF aerospace engineering senior said.
“Think about when you go to a bank and you put your credit card or ID or money into a tube,” he said. “It’s the same concept.”
The group of 27 was selected to attend a Janu-
ary competition hosted by SpaceX, a spacecraft com-pany founded by Elon Musk. Gatorloop designed a pod that could possibly travel up to 750 mph, but they couldn’t test its speed in January. The team has raised $12,000 on GoFundMe to continue revising 
their design and to compete again in summer, Que-
sada said.
Grace Everitt, 26, the marketing and sponsorship 
lead for Gatorloop, believes the UF pod costs less than half of other teams’ pods.
“We have a completely, 100 percent ready pod 
that we’re really proud of” the UF alumna said.UF students design high-speed podTHE HARDBACK CAFE 
HELD A BENEFIT 
CONCERT.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
John Osbron chatted with his 
girlfriend and his sister Wednes-
day night as they waited to hear 
four local bands play in support of 
immigrants.
When the Gainesville resident 
went to The Hardback Cafe, lo-
cated at 211 W. University Ave., 
at about 9:30 p.m., he realized the fee to enter the bar would go to the American Civil Liberties Union as part of the cafe’s Emergency ACLU 
Benefit concert.
The ACLU, a nonprofit active 
that provides legal assistance to 
those whose civil liberties may be 
at stake, has received more than 
$24 million in donations since Trump’s immigration ban, accord-ing to The Washington Post. Each person’s $5 to $10 entry fee went 
to the nonprofit, said Alan Bush-
nell, the cafe’s owner.
Elsewhere, Gainesville tea shop 
Lollicup, located at 3550 SW 34th 
St., announced Wednesday on 
Facebook it will donate 10 cents to ACLU every time someone “checks in” to the chain cafe through social media. The owner could not imme-
diately be reached for comment.
Bushnell, an attorney, said a band approached him about hold-
ing the benefit concert a few days ago. He immediately said yes.
The UF alumnus, who hosts 
bands at his venue Wednesdays through Saturdays, said he doesn’t expect the Trump administra-
tion to implement any intelligent 
policies, and the immigration ban proved as much. The executive order, which suspends entry from citizens of seven Muslim-majority 
countries, could affect up to 90,000 
people, according to The Washing-ton Post.
“It’s a stupid thing to do,” 
Bushnell said. “It was only certain countries, not including ones that he (Trump) does business with, so it’s an inherent conflict of inter-est.”
Osbron, 24, who disagrees 
wholeheartedly with Trump’s ex-ecutive order, said he decided to stay late into the night at The 
Hardback Cafe after hearing the 
reason for the fundraiser.
Though Osbron sees some resi-
dents divided by politics, he said the concert gave him hope for 
unity.
“The city, or the country in gen-
eral, I think it’s getting divided into 
two main factions,” he said, “but 
those two main factions are also 
growing and coming together.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgGainesville businesses 
raise money for ACLUeral animal research laws, and 
that UF self-reports incidents.
“Additionally, the university 
also took appropriate measures to prevent recurrence, which 
may have included additional 
training, updating protocols and disciplining employees or students,” Sikes said.
Budkie said he hopes to see 
UF receive the maximum ﬁ  ne of $10,000 per infraction per animal.
“This could be a very signiﬁ  -
cant ﬁ  ling,” Budkie said.
Budkie said the cat research 
didn’t apply to humans. In a report from the study, which Budkie said he received, inves-tigators said the system was unique and differed from the animal’s biology. 
“That means that this re-
search is not worth, literally, not worth the paper that it’s printed on,” Budkie said.
Sikes said the research was 
to understand the airways of animals and humans, which ultimately relates to studying pneumonia. 
Sikes said the study also 
looked to understand how the nervous system causes reﬂ  exes such as coughing or swallow-ing, which prevents humans and animals from aspiration, or accidentally sucking food par-ticles or ﬂ  uid into their lungs. 
“Aspiration of food or liquid 
cause pneumonias which can 
occur in as many as 55 percent 
of patients in long-term care fa-cilities,” she said. “These pneu-monias can be life threatening. Animals also suffer from aspira-tion.”
Sikes said UF’s research will 
help treatments be developed for animals and humans.
“There is a strong link be-
tween therapies that are devel-oped for human use and trans-lation of these treatments into veterinary medicine,” Sikes said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgCAT,  from pg. 1Cats were alive at time
THE CITY HAS THE HIGHEST 
RATE IN FLORIDA.
By Spencer Thompson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville City Commission 
announced Wednesday its plan to im-prove internet speed in the city.
Following recent spikes in Cox 
Communication’s internet bills, a 
new organization called Connected 
Gainesville will investigate alterna-tive options to provide residents with affordable and reliable internet ac-cess, Gainesville City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said.
“Our problem is a lack of compe-
tition,” he said. “We have one com-pany that sells broadband internet in 
Gainesville, and they are taking ad-
vantage of that.”
Gainesville is currently paying the 
highest internet rates of any city in Florida, said Bryan Eastman, a mem-ber of Connected Gainesville. 
The city’s rates are $100 more per 
year than Tallahassee, $250 more than Hollywood, Florida, and $450 
more than St. Petersburg, Florida. Additionally, 22 percent of Alach-
ua County residents don’t have access 
to high-speed internet, Eastman said. 
Without quality internet, students 
are forced to use free Wi-Fi in places like Starbucks or McDonald’s to do their homework, said Rob Hyatt, the chairman of the Alachua County Pub-
lic School Board. 
“Students are limited,” Hyatt said. 
“They’re going to have to work that 
much harder.”
Hayes-Santos said a lack of inter-
net resources could cause students to fall behind and small businesses have no incentive to open in Gainesville. 
“We need to ensure that we have 
a community that can work for every-one,” Hayes-Santos said.
The commissioner said he will 
work with Cox if it lowers its prices, but his main goal is to provide afford-able internet to everyone in the city. 
Hayes-Santos said he hopes to have 
new plans this fall and enact them in early 2018. He said until these possi-
bilities become a reality, Gainesville 
will continue to lag behind.
“Gainesville residents deserve bet-
ter, and our city commission needs to make that clear to them,” Hayes-Santos said. 
The commissioners believe this is 
the ﬁ  rst step in ﬁ  nding a solution to Gainesville’s internet deﬁ  cit, Hyatt said. The study will look at cities like Huntsville, Alabama, and Chattanoo-ga, Tennessee, which have partnered 
with other private companies like 
Google Fiber, as examples of what Gainesville could be. 
Until then, Alachua County Com-
missioner Robert “Hutch” Hutchin-son said he thinks that the city may fall behind in job creation, education and government services.
“We have a digital divide in our 
community,” Hutchinson said. “We need to ﬁ  x that, and this is the effort that’s going to get it going.”
Once the plan is underway, 
Hutchinson said he believes Gainesville will be able to live up to its potential.
“We call ourselves the innovation 
city, and we’re trying to lead the inno-
vation economy,” he said. “That’s not 
going to happen without broad-based broadband.”  Gainesville to aim for better internet  4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR  5
THREE CHILDREN LIVED 
IN THE HOUSE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
By the time the cops came knocking in 
December, Roy McCoy Cone had developed 
a toxic regimen, his wife told Gainesville Po-lice.
Several times a week, in a home he shared 
with three children, 43-year-old Cone cooked 
methamphetamine, according to a police re-
port.
Inside the home, located in the 400 block 
of Southwest Second Street, dirty clothing 
ﬁ  lled a hallway and molded-over food occu-
pied a refrigerator, according to the report.
Outside, in a trash can, empty cold pack 
packaging, Mountain Dew bottles and boxes 
of pseudoephedrine served as tell-tale signs of Cone’s past, according to the report.
Cone was arrested Tuesday following a 
Dec. 16 raid on his home. He faces charges of child abuse, using a home for drug traf-ﬁ  cking, manufacturing of a controlled sub-stance, possession of drug paraphernalia and unlawful possession of a listed chemical. 
After contacting UF’s 
Child Protection Team,  police learned one of Cone’s children, who was 7 years old, only weighed about as much as a 4-year-old. The children exhibited likely signs of substance abuse, physical abuse and 
neglect, according to the report. 
Alachua County’s Environmental Protec-
tion Department told law enforcement the home was hazardous. Police learned from Gainesville Regional Utilities that electricity in the home was turned off for two months 
because of nonpayment.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he remains as of press 
time in lieu of a $30,500 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  Police: Man arrested for 
cooking meth near kids
IT RECEIVED ABOUT $11.6 
MILLION IN GRANTS.  
By Isaac Heller 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Two UF research teams have received 
about $11.6 million to pinpoint the ben-
eﬁ  ts of exercise.
UF was one of only a few organiza-
tions to receive two grants, announced in December, from the National Institute of Health to study the health beneﬁ  ts of ex-
ercise over a six-year period, said Karyn 
Esser, the associate program director for UF’s Institute of Myology. 
One grant is for animal studies and the 
other for The Coordinating Center at UF, 
which will organize data from about 17 
sites across the nation.
Researchers aim to know the exact sci-
ence behind how exercise makes people 
healthier, Esser said.
“If we are active, we have a lower prob-ability of certain kinds of cancers, like co-lon cancer or like breast cancer,” she said.
Researchers will study rodents going 
through endurance and resistance train-
ing, and they will collect blood and tissue 
samples for chemical analysis, she said. 
They will also study how rodents’ bod-ies react to exercising, such as changes in proteins, which help form muscles.
“The long term goal is saying ‘yes, 
we’re going to try to identify this molecule or factor that gets released that makes your whole system healthy,’” Esser said. 
Dr. Marco Pahor, the director of the UF 
College of Medicine’s Institute on Aging, will oversee the research centers.
“This is a very complex study, which 
involves several disciplines and research-ers and scientists from very different 
backgrounds,” Pahor said. “The major 
challenge is to coordinate and harmo-nize — synergize the efforts of all those people.”    UF to lead six-year study 
on benefits of exercising
Cone
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
A disclaimer: Don’t 
romanticize darker 
aspects of fiction 
What I say today might sound a little hypocritical. I am 
going to discuss why people should stop comparing the current political climate to fiction. This seems a bit counterintuitive, since I spent the past few Thurs-days comparing aspects of American politics and cul-
ture to two staple dystopian novels.
I will, however, preface this with saying that by no means am 
I dismissing the power of fiction. Books and films can change the world, cast a shadow of warning, be a brilliant reminder of the past, inspire courage in others and spark empathy and com-passion. Fiction is a good thing. People borrow aspects of what particularly calls to us, and we apply it in our day-to-day life. We can incorporate the heroism of “The Avengers” and “Harry Potter” in our everyday lives or reflect upon the grim warnings 
that “1984” and “Brave New World” have for us. 
But the important thing to remember is that fiction is fiction, 
and there are some elements of fiction that should stay fiction.
Though we are hesitant to admit it, “Harry Potter” often be-
comes the critical example of where we need to stop making 
comparisons for every single event that makes headlines. Yes, it’s like the Ministry of Magic has been overthrown. Yes, you can compare current politicians to the dark wizards in the nov-els. Yes, the whole thing was about the rise and fall of an auto-
crat who was bent on eliminating a specific race of people. Yes, 
there were a lot of Holocaust allegories and yes, “Harry Potter” can inspire people to be like Harry and Dumbledore and the rest of the Hogwarts gang and tackle the big bad villain. Makes it sound exciting, doesn’t it?
There lies the problem. People cannot romanticize the darker 
elements of fiction because, in reality, we cannot just close the book or pause the film when it gets too intense. This isn’t a world where a problem is going to be solved by hunting down Hor-
cruxes. Although “Harry Potter” is the most common example in 
this — with brave acts of defiance being called “Gryffindor-like” and very broad and unresearched comparisons to key villains in the novel being made (for the record, Kellyanne Conway’s equivalent is definitely not Bellatrix Lestrange) — it’s not the only one, and it’s definitely not the first. How many people have thought that war was some glorious, exciting prospect because of heroic movies and books? How many comparisons to the rug-ged rebellion leaders in “Les Miserables” and “Star Wars” came 
about because of the protests — failing to remember, of course, 
that almost everyone in “Les Miserables” ends up dead and so did basically all the Jedi? How many times has some teenage girl posted on her Tumblr about being the Mockingjay after this election and preparing for “The Hunger Games” — picking out her weapon, attire and district? 
The risk of comparing real life to fiction is that sometimes 
we may secretly crave that excitement that comes from books, television and movies — forgetting that, in actuality, things like 
dystopian governments, authoritarian leaders, rebellions, resis-
tances and long wars are not exciting. In reality, they are grim, bloody, traumatic and serious. 
So do we stay away from fiction? No, of course not. We just 
need to remember what stays in fiction and what we should take away. Because there are great things we can learn from fiction — bravery, standing up for those who cannot stand up for them-selves and being a kind soul in a world that tells you otherwise.Take time to disconnect: a week in the woods 
When was the last time you were tru-
ly alone? I’m not talking about the last time you were by yourself. I assume every person spends some time each day unaccompanied, 
whether it be sleeping, studying late at night or using the bathroom (I hope). Yet most of the time, although we might be physically by ourselves, we aren’t actually alone. We’re constantly plugged into our phones and com-puters, communicating with others via text message, email or Snapchat. It’s a relentless barrage of electronic sensation and information. 
I’m talking about the last time you were really de-
tached — cloaked in isolation so thick that no one could reach you even if they tried. Chances are you can’t re-member. That’s normal. But it’s unfortunate. Because when we disconnect ourselves from our devices, we start to actually connect with the people around us. 
I’ve been seeking this solitude for a while. It arrived 
a few weekends ago. 
On that Thursday, five good friends and I drove to 
my roommate Mike’s cabin in Sparta, North Carolina, to spend a long weekend. It’s a sleepy town tucked away in the Smoky Mountains, with a population of about 10,000. It’s so close to Virginia you could throw a rock there from the front door, so rural that Mike’s neighbors across the street are a herd of cows. It was the ultimate outdoors trip.
We rode all-terrain vehicles, fired guns and explored 
an abandoned cabin from the 19th century. And there’s nothing quite like sitting around a campfire on a cold night with nothing to look at but the stars (although mother nature sometimes had other plans). 
But the best part of the trip came on the third day, 
when we embarked on a hike. We discovered a trail in a forest shrouded in dense fog. For several miles, it fol-lowed a creek that eventually led down to a series of cascading, winding waterfalls. It was here I finally found what I was searching for. 
At the cabin, we had Wi-Fi. On the trail? 
Nothing. 
There was no cell phone service. No con-
nection to the outside world. No one knew where we were, save for several other hikers and their dogs, with whom we had pleasant encounters. I could’ve stayed there forever, reveling in the excess of solitude. But we were 
only on the trail for a few hours before the impending sunset forced us to retreat. 
The time we spent that day wandering through the 
woods made the 10-hour drive from Gainesville worth it. We discovered something rare in today’s world: a place of resounding seclusion. Eventually, we found our way back to the car. We were reconnected with our phones. 
It was amusing to watch some of my friends devour 
unread texts and Snapchat messages. Even though we hadn’t been off the grid for long — only an afternoon — you’d think they had been lost for as long as Tom Hanks’ character in “Castaway.” It was an amusing re-minder of how hooked we are on technology.
I understand that heading out into the woods fre-
quently as a means of disconnecting isn’t realistic. We’re all busy with school and work, and it can be difficult to get away sometimes. Yet disconnecting can be as simple as flipping your phone into airplane mode the next time you get lunch with a friend or leaving it at home when you go to the gym to work out. They’re small steps to take that can make an immense difference in improving our relationships with others. Connect with the people around you, not just to the screen in your pocket.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORBrian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Ballet company performs ‘Robin Hood’
There will be shows Friday and Saturday, pg. 10Gainesville Improv Festival brings laughs
It will run until Saturday, pg. 9By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
This Saturday, French house 
music producer Tchami will be 
performing at the Florida Theatre 
in downtown Gainesville. He will 
be joined by Canadian producer Angelz, Alex Wood, Side Trakd and Blac Bear. 
Tchami’s show in Gainesville 
is part of his two-month long North American Prophecy Tour, to which he brings a unique church-style stage setup. Tchami 
is the self-proclaimed pioneer of 
“Future House” music, which blends elements of electronic dance music with deep house 
music. With his European roots, 
Tchami will bring a truly unique house music performance to this small Florida city.
“I’m looking forward to going 
out and hearing live music from a foreign and respected house art-ist,” said Tom Kane, a 21-year-old UF history junior. “It will be 
a nice change from going to the 
same bars that play the same mu-sic every weekend.” 
Though fellow French house 
music producer Mercer was set 
to accompany Tchami on his 
shows around North America, the Florida dates of the tour will see Angelz, a Canadian artist opening 
for Tchami instead.
Anglez, whose real name 
is Henry Verreault, has never 
played in Gainesville before but is quite popular in Miami. About two years ago, Angelz released a deep house music rendition of rapper Stitches’ track “Mail.” This remix got a lot of play in Mi-ami because of Stitches’ popular-
ity in his hometown. 
Angelz performed at Miami 
Music Week last March and was 
welcomed by fans who found 
him through his remix.
“The ﬁ  rst song I put out that 
got super popular was a remix 
of this song ‘Mail’ by this Miami rapper, Stitches,” Angelz, 25, 
said. “I turned his gangster rap 
track into a deep house song.”Angelz is also on Tchami’s 
new record label, Confession. 
This label put out Angelz’s “Saint 
Thug” extended play in 2016 and “Hey Girl” single in 2015. Artists like Angelz and Tchami are part of a music scene based around in-
novations in house music, techno 
music, bass music and EDM. 
“I think Tchami and I working 
together is the greatest represen-
tation of what is happening in the 
current world of house music,” Angelz said. “We are carrying the house scene around and shaping its sound.”
Tickets for the show are avail-
able to purchase on eventbrite.com. 
General admission is $25, and 
$30 buys access to express entry into the venue and an elevated viewing area of the stage. 
The event is set to to run from 
10 p.m. to 2 a.m.French DJ Tchami to perform at Florida Theater
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
T chami will perform in Gainesville on Saturday as part of his North American Prophecy T our.
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
The Coathangers have been per-
forming together for 10 years, but 
the band gets just as pumped to play each show as they did for their ﬁ  rst one. 
The indie punk trio from Atlan-
ta, Georgia, will be playing at the High Dive, located at 210 SW Sec-ond Ave., in downtown Gainesville tonight.
The Coathangers consist of Stephanie Luke on drums, Julia Ku-gel on guitar and vocals, and Mer-
edith Franco on bass and vocals. 
While they’ve performed in 
Gainesville before, Pat Lavery, the 
owner of Glory Days Presents and High Dive promoter, said the staff 
looks forward to welcoming The 
Coathangers to the High Dive for 
the ﬁ  rst time. 
Lavery said it’s rare to see all-
female bands at his venue or any 
others in Gainesville. 
“We are excited to give a stage to them to empower all ladies out 
there to play music and start band,” 
Lavery said. 
The Coathangers strive to put on 
an energetic show, Luke said.
“Sometimes it’s a little humor-
ous,” she said. “We try to have a good time and keep it live.” 
They use their music to help the 
crowd escape real life, Luke said. 
The band feeds off the energy of the audience. 
“I get to do what I love,” she 
said. “Just getting to look out and see people having a good time to the music that we play — that’s a 
really good feeling to have.”
While The Coathangers have put 
out ﬁ  ve albums since they formed 
in 2006, they look forward to per-forming their newer songs. Luke 
said she’s a big fan of playing their 
song “Perfume,” which is off their 
ﬁ  fth album, “Nosebleed Weekend.”
Along with touring, The 
Coathangers have been in the stu-
dio recording new songs. The band 
is signed to Suicide Squeeze Re-cords, an independent record label 
based in Seattle, Washington. Luke 
said the band also hopes to tour Eu-
rope this summer.
“We’re always trying to keep up 
with everything,” she said.
Tickets are on sale now for $10 
or $12 the day of the show. They are available at TicketFly, Hear 
Again and the High Dive Box Of-ﬁ  ce. 
Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 9:30 
p.m. show. Donkng and Average 
Friend will open the show.Female punk trio The Coathangers to play show tonight  
MUSICCourtesy to the Alligator
T chami will be joined on stage by Canadian artist Angelz, who will replace Mercer for the Florida 
leg of the tour. Tickets for the show are $25 for general admission and $30 for express entry.
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9th
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Neon Liger started out small. 
The underground dance party, 
which ran successfully for seven 
years, began as a onetime party at 
Spannk, later known as The Motor Room, on Feb. 2, 2008. 
What started as a gathering 
between friends to listen to elec-tronic music, which wasn’t popu-lar at the time, turned into a party of about 300 people. 
Vijaya Seixas, a 30-year-old 
DJ who created the party back in 2008, stuck with the project for nearly a decade. 
What he created became a 
memorable experience around Gainesville, and not just because of the unique name. 
“We just wanted something 
that you literally couldn’t forget,” 
Seixas said. “If you Google Neon 
Liger, it’s always the very ﬁ  rst hit.” 
Neon Liger was the only dance 
party in Gainesville playing elec-tronic music in 2008, Seixas said. Patrons ﬂ  ocked to it for that rea-son and more, packing out The Motor Room every Saturday night 
to get down to good dance music. 
Beyond good music and a 
good time, Neon Liger offered an 
open environment for all kinds of 
guests.
“We gave the hipsters, out-
casts, weirdos, locals and LGBT 
community a place to come and feel welcome,” Seixas said. 
The weekly event concluded in 
2015 with the closing of The Mo-tor Room, Seixas said. The dance party was what was keeping the 
club alive at the time, so Seixas 
and his partner, Jimbo Rountree, decided to close as things began to slow down. 
“I didn’t want it to be in any-
one else’s hands,” Seixas said. “I wanted it to end on its own, how it started.” 
Although its weekly run ended 
years ago, Neon Liger returned in 2016 for its eight-year reunion. 
The dance party is returning 
once again this Saturday for a multi-room, nine-year reunion at 
The Atlantic, The Alley and Ar-
cade Bar, all located downtown. 
The event, which will run from 
9 p.m. to 2 a.m. and cost $10 at 
the door, will bring Neon Liger’s resident DJs from over the years 
back to Gainesville to perform. 
Artists will be traveling from 
cities such as Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Chicago and more. Although Seixas isn’t giving the DJs anything speciﬁ  c to 
play, he said the night will revolve 
around the same music Neon Liger always had. 
“The underlying thing that 
brings it all together is house mu-sic,” Seixas said. “That’s what the party’s always been, that’s what it’ll be primarily.”  
Jimbo Rountree, the 29-year-
old former co-owner of The Motor Room with Seixas, still works in Gainesville today as the manager of Arcade Bar. 
Although Rountree never per-formed with Neon Liger, he be-came a part of the event a year 
in and has remained with it ever 
since. 
He said he and Seixas became 
co-owners of The Motor Room in order to be more in control of 
their events.
“We saw a lot of opportunities 
in parties that weren’t being done 
and events that we wanted to 
see happen,” Rountree said. “We 
thought we could implement a lot of other things if we were essen-tially in charge of the operation.” 
The Motor Room and Vault, 
which is now known as the Flor-ida Theatre, went on to host acts that dominate festival stages now, from Steve Aoki to Odesza to 
Skrillex, Rountree said.Each of these artists started at 
grass-roots parties such as Neon Liger. 
As for the nine-year reunion, 
both Seixas and Rountree look for-
ward to a party reminiscent of the Neon Liger events that dominated 
Gainesville for years. 
Along with that, the two are 
excited to reunite with old friends 
who moved on to new parts of 
their lives. 
“I have so many friends com-
ing in,” Rountree said. “I’m hon-
estly looking forward to seeing people I haven’t seen in years.” 
Guests 18 and up are welcome 
at the Atlantic, but The Alley and Arcade Bar will only be for those 
21 and up.
 Neon Liger dance party to host nine-year reunion 
LOCAL
Rodrigo Lizarraga for the Alligator
Neon Liger, an electronic dance party that ran from 2008 to 2015 in what was formerly known as The Motor Room, will make its 
return downtown on Saturday night. The Atlantic, The Alley and Arcade Bar will host a reunion party, with $10 tickets at the door.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR  9
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville Improv Festival has 
returned this weekend for it’s 11th run of 
making students and residents laugh.
The festival has four nights of shows, 
starting Wednesday and running until Sat-urday. This year, GIF will be presenting a live performance and recording of the hit podcast “Our Father.”
“I’m really excited for the ‘Our Father’ 
podcast,” said Skyler Stone, a co-founder and co-producer of GIF. “It’s cool because it’s improv being captured in the moment. It creates this time capsule of a night.” This will be the ﬁ  rst live recording of the podcast.
Many of the performers and both of 
GIF’s co-founders got their start with im-prov at UF with the Theatre Strike Force.
“TSF has one of the most strong and 
compelling improv histories (of college groups),” Stone said. “I got hooked (on improv) right away. You get that rush of performing and feeling accepted.”
Students who are currently part of TSF 
will be performing on various nights and 
times throughout the festival.
“We really try to get Strike Force to per-
form as much as they can over different 
nights of the festival,” Stone said. “Every night of the festival there’s a TSF group.”
Aside from the nightly performances, 
audience members can also get involved with the improv workshops being offered Saturday. For $50 per session, guests can 
be taught by members of the headlining 
and featured groups.
Connelly said the workshops are a 
great way to get started in improv because people learn from professionals in the craft. 
“I love the workshops,” Connelly 
said.” The producers have always had education and sharing ideas at the center 
of the festival.”
After Wednesday’s show at the High 
Dive, the remaining shows will be at the 
Squitieri Studio Theatre in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. Tonight’s shows will be at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m., with tickets priced at $6 for students and $8 for general admission. Tickets for Friday and Saturday’s shows will be $8 for stu-
dents and $13 for general admission, with 
shows also at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m.By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
The best Sunday of the year is ﬁ  nally here, and 
whether you’re a football fan, a beer fan or a fan of 
good commercials, you know you’ll be watching the 
game. If you’re looking to get off your couch but still 
watch the New England Patriots take on the Atlanta Falcons, there’s a lot of places around Gainesville join-ing the celebration. Here are some of the best spots:
World of Beer — Starting at 6:30 p.m., World of 
Beer, located at 3265 SW 34th St., will have food and drink specials all night to celebrate the NFL’s biggest game. According to the restaurant’s Facebook page, there will be half-priced wings, $3 Fireball shots, $4 
Swamp Head pints and $15 buckets of Bud Light and 
Coors Light.
Loosey’s — If you’re looking to head downtown 
to watch the game, Loosey’s may be your best bet. 
The restaurant announced on its Facebook page that 
it has rented a big-screen projector for all its guests to 
easily watch the game, and it will be serving happy 
hour specials all day, including all-you-can-eat wings. Pabst Blue Ribbon beers are also $1, if cheap beer is what you’re into.
First Magnitude — Following along with the big-
screen trend, First Magnitude is also breaking out its 12-foot projector screen for the Super Bowl, accord-ing to its Facebook page. If you wear your favorite team’s jersey, you get $0.50 off First Magnitude beers, and there will also be the Bubba Luigi’s Roadtrip food truck serving burgers and wings. Four-day Gainesville Improv Festival 
returns to town for 11th year of laughs GNV’s best spots to spend Super 
Bowl Sunday
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
The improv festival will feature performances and workshops by pro-
fessional comedians, as well as by UF’s Theatre Strike Force group.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Dance Alive National Ballet will 
perform “Robin Hood” this weekend 
at the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts, giving Gainesville residents a chance to experience English folk-
lore’s most famous outlaw ﬁ  rsthand. 
Linda Rocha, the development di-
rector for Dance Alive, said that be-
cause of the way their production is performed, audience members who usually aren’t fans of ballet may ﬁ  nd themselves pleasantly surprised. 
“‘Robin Hood’ is a very light bal-
let, and it’s fun, it’s entertaining, it’s 
comical,” Rochas said. “They have 
an archery contest in it, and sword ﬁ  ghts. Ballet isn’t the strict, classical ballet that people think of — they’re a lot of fun, and this is a perfect ex-ample of that.” 
During Dance Alive’s production 
of the “Nutcracker,” Mayor Lauren Poe surprised a Saturday matinee 
audience by performing the role of 
Mother Goose.
“You just never know what 
you’re going to ﬁ  nd at the ballet,” Rocha said. 
While Dance Alive, a nonproﬁ  t 
international ballet touring compa-ny, has been based in Gainesville for the last 51 years, many locals are still 
unaware of its existence.
“The dancers spend a large por-
tion of the time touring the country, 
and it’s very well known outside the country,” Rocha said. “When Prince Albert of Monaco came to Florida, he actually had them perform for him. Very few people in Gainesville are aware that they have this cultural 
jewel here, and they don’t take ad-
vantage of it.” As the development director, Ro-
cha said she is happy to work in the background and cherishes the con-
nection she has with the dancers. 
She said she knows ﬁ  rsthand the ex-tent of their hard work.
“They are in the studio rehearsing 
morning to night,” she said. “Every day when they’re not on tour and even when they are, they rehearse in-between shows. Their whole life is committed to this, and dance is 
part of their whole existence.” 
Andre Valladon, who performs 
the main role of “Robin Hood,” said 
the dancers rehearse from the begin-ning of the season in August until the end of the season in April. 
“We travel a lot too, so when 
we’re not at the studio rehearsing, we’re either dancing or traveling, so 
it’s pretty intense,” he said.
Valladon is one of 16 internation-
al dancers who found their way to 
Gainesville. For him, he said it was by chance and luck.
“Back then, I was in Brazil, and I 
was looking for a nice place to settle down and try to stay with a compa-ny for a while,” Valldon said. “I had 
just left a company and was looking 
for something outside the country, so I started sending some resumes around.” 
Valladon said he received an 
email from Kim Tuttle, the artistic di-rector and choreographer for Dance Alive. The email stated that she saw his video, liked it and had a contract 
for him to sign. 
“The contract was a done deal, so 
I just took it,” Valladon said. “It was 
the sign I was waiting for, and I’ve been here for nine years now.”
Nine years later, this is Valla-
don’s third time performing the role of Robin Hood. He said this role is still his favorite.
“When I ﬁ  rst got to Gainesville, it 
was my ﬁ  rst role with the company,” he said. “It was a really rewarding role because Tuttle, the choreogra-pher, created the role for me.” 
Valladon stressed the importance 
of broadening Gainesville’s art scene by bringing in more audience mem-bers to their shows.
“We have an audience with the 
people that live in Gainesville full time — people that have kids that go to dance and people that are con-nected to the art scene in Gainesville come a lot, but the young crowd is the people we try to reach, because they’re half our population now,” he said.
Similarly, Rocha said she wants 
to bring in new audience members to Dance Alive, with a goal of expos-ing them to a world of ballet that will exceed their expectations. 
“Art is always a matter of per-
spective, and people are always going to see something different in it,” Rocha said. “You just hope that when people do come, that they 
see their own perception of it, and 
that they walk away with the feel-ing that they want to come back and see more. Everyone is going to walk away with something different, and you just want them to walk away with something.”
Performances of “Robin Hood” 
are Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday 
at 2 p.m. Ticket prices vary and are 
available through the Phillips Center Box Ofﬁ  ce or eticketsin.com.
Audience members can get a tick-
et for 15 percent off if they attend the Friar Tuck’s Pub pre-show dinner at the theater Friday at 6 p.m.
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
I’ve said it before, but now 
I’ll put it in writing: Migos are in 
the top 10 most inﬂ  uential artists ever in the history of hip-hop. Be-fore you overreact, think about it: They essentially created a style of their own, which was then jacked by almost any rapper you can 
think of. 
I’m mainly referring to Migos’ 
ﬂ  ow: their method of rapping in 
triplets. While there are debates 
over who started this rapping 
style, one thing is certain: Migos 
adopted it, owned it and brought it back. They have contributed so much to the culture, and their in-
ﬂ  uence goes beyond their rapping 
style. 
Migos have stayed relevant 
over the past several years by 
continually making party anthems 
such as “Bando” and “Versace” in 
2013, “Fight Night” and “Hand-
some and Wealthy” in 2014 and “Pipe It Up” in 2015, just to name a few. And if you didn’t already 
know, the trio can be credited 
with starting the “dab.”
I believe Migos’ inﬂ  uence is 
underappreciated. It’s important 
to look at everything the group has done, because their album title, “Culture,” released Jan. 27, is the most ﬁ  tting title in recent memory. Many people thought the trio would die down or split up, but they’ve just gotten better with time. 
Quavo, Offset and Takeoff have impeccable chemistry (which makes sense seeing as they’re all blood related), and it shows in 
their music. After some time in 
the game, Migos ﬁ  nally achieved 
their ﬁ  rst Billboard Hot 100 No. 1 
song — a tremendous milestone. I would say “Bad & Boujee” is the hottest and most popular rap song to top the charts since “Black Bea-tles” or “Panda.” “Bad & Boujee” hit No. 1 a week before Migos’ second album, “Culture,” was re-leased, which is projected to top the charts as well. There’s a strong chance Migos will have the No. 1 song and album in the country. Coming from a straight rap group, that is super impressive.
There isn’t really much to say 
about “Culture” other than it’s a perfect album. From start to ﬁ  n-ish, there isn’t a single moment when I want to skip a song or fast forward (yes, even Uzi’s verse on “Bad & Boujee”— it’s not terrible if we’re being real). 
The album doesn’t need fea-
tures from other stars to be great, although Gucci Mane, 2 Chainz and Travis Scott add a nice touch to the album. The Migos ﬁ  nally broke into widespread, main-stream success, and it couldn’t have happened at a better time. With both the No. 1 song in the country and the (projected) No. 1 album in the country, it’s time to recognize Migos for all they’ve done for rapping culture. “Cul-ture” is an instant classic and one of the best albums to come out in recent memory.Dance Alive National Ballet presents 
‘Robin Hood’ at Phillips Center Album Review: 
Migos’ ‘Culture’
LOCAL
 MUSICTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-8-17-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up 
lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, 
javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 
knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  
emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
ACROSS
1 Brewski
5 Scrubland
succulent
10 Skate park
protection
14 “__ something I
said?”
15 Bounded
16 Settled on the
tarmac
17 Headline during
an Africanwildfire season?
19 “¿Qué __?”20 Peach or orange21 Snitch
22 Rental duration
24 Former NASCAR
Cup sponsor
26 Pass along
27 Go over again29 Kind of key33 Bro36 Tolkien villain37 “This feels
familiar” feeling
38 Corner office fig.
39 Casual parting ...
and a hint to thispuzzle’s four
longest answers
41 Had too much42 Satisfies, as thirst44 Reduction45 Attending46 Fable teller47 “Challenge
accepted!”
49 West Coast pro51 Possible reason
for an empty seat
55 Picture of health?
58 Profession,
casually
59 Hosp. area
60 __ clarinet61 Collector of some
Spanish art?
64 Tactic65 Barn-raising sect66 Latin I word67 County bordering
Sonoma
68 Core belief69 Out of shape
DOWN
1 Punjabi
monotheists
2 Burn through3 Eatery often
named for itsowner4 Foul spot
5 Seemingly
eternal burden
6 Joint ailment7 Abbr. in car ads
8 Unloaded a
burden
9 Old lemon
10 Artist Jasper
during his tropicalperiod?
11 Cumming of “The
Good Wife”
12 CD part13 Sit tight18 “Rule, Britannia”
composer
23 License info25 Farmer’s
possible reply to“What beans are
you planting this
year?”?
26 Pit visitor
28 Before,
poetically
30 Green gem
31 Wrapped up32 Deserving a slap,
maybe
33 Badlands
landform
34 Shaft with
bushings35 Genteel
gatherings
37 Couple’s break
from the kids
40 “Delish!”43 Amazing, in
dudespeak
47 Biological map
subject
48 Slime50 Pester
52 Card table
request53 Where some
large schools
may be found
54 Rathskeller fare
55 Aye-catcher?
56 Trattoria’s “in the
style of”
57 Firebird roof
option
58 Military center
62 Half a cosmic
whole
63 Check
By Chuck Deodene©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/02/1702/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Live Longer. Drive Sober.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/6-2/9 
from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; 
Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-6-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Good Times Outdoors, Inc. is seeking an
individual for promoting our brands on a
variety of Social media sites and forums.
The position is negotiable as to time
spent onsite and time spent remotely.
The successful candidate will have
experience and knowledge in social media
marketing, a knowledge of outdoor sports, 
boating, hunting and firearms is preferable. 
Interested parties may contact by email at:
doug@core15.com
2-8-17-6-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/sportsUF women's tennis player earns weekly honor
Ingrid Neel, the lone underclassman on the Florida women's tennis team, 
was named the SEC Freshman of the Week, the conference announced on 
Wednesday. Neel has a combined 3-0 singles and doubles record so far in her collegiate career. Mike White and the Florida 
men's basketball team hosts Missouri tonight. For a preview of the game, go online to alligator.org/sportsFRESH
FACES
Shawn Davis, DB, 5-foot-11, 190 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: Three of Florida’s four 
starting defensive backs left for the NFL 
Draft, but McElwain brought in a bunch to compete for playing time in 2016. Davis will get his opportunities. 
Shawn Davis
TJ Moore, OL, 6-foot-6, 290 pounds, 
four stars
Outlook: With about 15 offensive 
linemen on Florida’s roster for Spring, Moore’s chance of earning playing time as a freshman will likely depend on injuries up the depth chart. 
T J Moore
Lacedrick Brunson, LB, 6-foot-2, 
210 pounds, two stars
Outlook: With a ton of young depth 
at his position, Brunson has a better chance at making his contributions on special teams than at linebacker this season. He's viewed more as a project 
player. 
Lacedrick Brunson
Brian Edwards, DB, 6-foot-3, 195 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: At 6-foot-3, Edwards 
instantly becomes the tallest defensive 
back on UF’s roster. If he shines early, Florida’s coaches could fall in love with his height and hand him some playing 
time.
Brian Edwards
Adarius Lemons, RB, 6-foot-1, 195 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: Lemons may need to add 
some weight to bang around with SEC 
bodies, but with two of Florida’s five running backs leaving, Lemons could get some carries since Florida spread the 
ball around at RB last season.
Adarius Lemons
Zachary Carter, DE, 6-foot-5, 250 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: The Gators aren’t afraid 
to throw young edge rushers in a game 
during their freshman season. Just look at Jabari Zuniga, who had five sacks through the first five games as a 
freshman last year.
Zachary Carter
James Robinson, WR, 6-foot-4, 205 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: Florida nabbed its top 
receiver prospect in the 11th hour. If 
Robinson lives up to expectations, the Gators can look to exploit his height advantage in 2017.  
James Robinson
Ventrell Miller, LB, 6-foot, 227 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: Despite Florida’s depth 
at linebacker, Miller could see some playing time as Florida’s highest rated linebacker recruit of the class, especially with the departure of Second Team All-
SEC linebacker Jarrad Davis.  
Ventrell Miller
Elijah Conliffe, DT, 6-foot-4, 305 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: Conliffe could contribute 
right away, especially with the loss of 
interior defensive linemen Caleb Brant-ley, Bryan Cox and Joey Ivie to the NFL Draft.
Elijah Conliffe
Marco Wilson, CB, 6-foot, 180 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: The brother of departing 
Gators defensive back Quincy Wilson, the 180-pound corner has the talent to contribute but will have to add some muscle before he’s ready to compete in 
the SEC.  
Marco Wilson
Nick Smith, LB, 6-foot-3, 210 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: Smith has the height and 
instincts to compete in the SEC, but 
he’ll need to bulk up and improve his conditioning if he wants to break into Florida’s starting rotation at linebacker. 
Nick Smith
Malik Davis, RB, 5-foot-11, 190 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: There’s nothing McElwain 
likes more than an open running back competition. Rising junior Jordan Scarlett will likely start, but Davis will have an opportunity to compete for 
playing time.
Malik Davis
Tedarrell Slaton, DT, 6-foot-4, 360 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: Florida’s highest-rated 
recruit will bring the size and strength 
of an offensive lineman to the Gators’ defensive interior. Despite playing OL in high school, McElwain said Slaton will 
play on the defensive line. 
T edarrell Slaton
Donovan Stiner, S, 6-foot-2, 185 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: A versatile defensive back 
who brings speed and height to the 
safety position, Stiner could see playing time in his first year by improving his coverage skills in practice.  
Donovan Stiner
Jake Allen, QB, 6-foot-3, 200 
pounds, three stars
Outlook: Allen will compete right 
away with Luke Del Rio, Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask. He likely won’t start, but if he plays well enough, he could push his way into a third string or back-
up role.
Jake Allen
Daquon Green, WR, 6-foot-1, 185 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: With good hands and 
athletic body control, Green may rise 
in the Gators’ crowded receiver rotation depending on who underperforms expectations.  
Daquon Green
Brad Stewart, DB, 6-foot, 190 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: Florida’s staff has 
reportedly been eying this defensive back from Louisiana for more than a year. With an impressive fall camp, Stewart could get some time on the field 
in his freshman season.  
Brad Stewart
CJ Henderson, CB, 6-foot-1, 175 
pounds, four stars
Outlook: A former running back, Hen-
derson brings speed, agility and aware-
ness to UF’s secondary. While he’s got the natural talent to contribute right away, he’ll need to hit the weight room before being considered for serious playing time. 
CJ Henderson
Florida welcomes 18 recruits on a 
surprising National Signing Day THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR  15
Jim McElwain walked through a row of 
screaming fans inside UF’s indoor prac-tice facility while UF’s band blared the school’s ﬁ  ght song throughout the facility. 
A dozen or so chomping cheerleaders 
staged behind the podium welcomed McElwain 
to the lectern.
What would normally be a standard press 
conference felt more like a high school pep rally 
Wednesday afternoon. 
And all for what?Sure, McElwain’s National Signing Day was 
a successful one. 
The Gators signed multiple top prospects 
in the class of 2017 that had been undecided, 
including defensive tackle Tedarrell Slaton, 
cornerback CJ Henderson and wide receiver James Robinson — all four-star recruits per 247sports.com. 
Names like those helped boost 
Florida’s recruiting class from what was No. 19 nationally on Tuesday night into the No. 10 spot 
less than 24 hours later, according 
to 247sports.com.
That’s all good news for UF 
fans. 
But it probably won’t matter. Once again, Alabama’s class 
was other-worldly. The Crimson Tide’s ﬁ  nger-prints were all over ESPN’s top 300 recruits. 
Florida was also out-recruited by Southeast-
ern Conference members like Auburn, LSU and even Georgia, which pulled off the No. 3 class this year. 
Florida State, which had a down year in 2016 by its recent standards, also ﬁ  nished ahead of the Gators, land-ing the No. 6 class. 
McElwain and Florida need to 
face the reality: These recruiting 
classes don’t matter unless they 
feature what UF has been in search of for years now: A quarterback. 
Yes, maybe Jake Allen — a 
three-star prospect out of Fort Lau-derdale’s St. Thomas Aquinas — is 
the answer. Maybe it’s Feleipe Franks or Kyle Trask, who will get their shot in Spring prac-tice to earn the starting job. Or heck, maybe it’s 
early enrollee Kedarius Toney, whom McElwain 
said will play quarterback this spring.
But until Florida has a proven quarterback 
that is winning games in The Swamp and can ﬁ  nally get over what looks like an enormous hump in Alabama at the SEC Championship Game, why would any top-notch, ﬁ  ve-star re-cruit want to come to Gainesville?
McElwain even mentioned at a recent Flor-
ida basketball game that he wants to “kick the door down” against the Crimson Tide next year. 
But when asked how he’d do that, he revert-
ed to jokes, possibly a sign that even he knows UF isn’t close to doing so right now. 
“Get a bigger hammer,” he said. “Steel-toed 
boots this time instead of tennis shoes.”
Let’s be honest: That door ain’t coming 
down anytime soon. 
P atrick Pinak is the online sports editor. His 
columns appear on Thursdays. Contact him at ppinak@alligator.org, or follow him on Twitter @pinakk12
 McElwain saved his recruiting class on signing day, but does it really matter?NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
receiver who can play right away, the Gators’ biggest commit of the day — in a literal and ﬁ  gurative sense — was 6-foot-4, 360-pound defensive tackle Tedarrell Slaton. 
Slaton was ranked as the 69th-best 
player in the country by 247Sports and remains UF’s top commit of the 2017 cycle. 
In addition, UF staged another 
moderate surprise by signing Miami 
Columbus four-star cornerback CJ 
Henderson, who was thought to be leaning toward Miami. Henderson’s signing addressed a position of need for the Gators, who lost three starting defensive backs to the NFL Draft. And he wasn’t the only one. 
Florida also picked up a commit-
ment from three-star DB Brian Ed-wards, who joined four-stars Marco Wilson and Brad Stewart and three-stars Shawn Davis and Donovan Stiner to complete a strong class of defensive backs. 
“We weren’t just trying to ﬁ  ll it 
with bodies,” McElwain said of the DB class. “We got some quality. 
That’s what’s exciting.”
The Gators also addressed their 
body drought at defensive tackle, 
picking up four-star Elijah Conliffe in addition to Slaton and early en-rollee Kyree Campbell. 
As far as surprises, Robinson and Henderson were the main two. Other commitments of the day came from two-star linebacker Lacedrick 
Brunson and Lemons, who McEl-
wain found out about mid-sentence during his press conference. 
In total, Florida signed 23 com-
mits on Wednesday including early enrollees, though McElwain hinted that more might be coming. He also took one last parting shot at his crit-ics before leaving. 
“If you don’t mind, I think we’ll 
go enjoy a nice evening of celebra-tion with a great class,” he said. “What was it, a strong ﬁ  nish? Is that what it was?”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
SIGNING,  from pg. 1Florida signed six defensive backs
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain points during his National Signing Day press 
conference on Wednesday. 
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2017
