We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorGators men’s golf starts 
NCAA Regionals
UF sits in a tie for ﬁ  fth place,
 ﬁ  ve shots behind the lead, pg. 14Hawthorne Murder
ACSO has identiﬁ  ed a suspect in an April shooting that left a 
Hawthorne woman dead, pg. 4
2018 Florida election
A UF Online student has removed his bid from the election, pg. 8By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 120 active wildﬁ  res 
burned throughout Florida on Fri-
day morning.
“This is one of the worst wild-
ﬁ  re seasons that Florida has had in years,” said Aaron Keller, the spokesperson for the Florida De-
partment of Agriculture and Con-
sumer Services.So far this year, more than 
2,000 wildﬁ  res have burned more 
than 150,000 acres across the 
state, according to the FDACS’ Current Fire Conditions. On April 11, Gov. Rick Scott signed an ex-
ecutive order declaring a state of 
emergency, citing the state’s se-vere drought conditions and sev-en large wildﬁ  res across the state, including one in Marion County 
that burned about 700 acres.It’s the ﬁ  rst time in six years 
since a similar emergency has been declared, Keller said.
“Florida is kind of a feast-and-
famous state where there is ei-
ther a lot of rain and almost ﬂ  ood 
conditions, or there is drought,” 
Keller said. “Some areas of the state are more affected than oth-ers.”
Nearly every region of the state 
— except the Panhandle — has seen larger wildﬁ  res sooner in the year than in the past, said Ludie 
Bond, a Florida Forest Service 
spokesperson for North Florida. In the ﬁ  ve counties her forestry center manages — Alachua, Put-
nam, Marion, Levy and Gilchrist 
— 14 ﬁ  res are still actively be-ing managed. Crews are clearing burnable debris and hosing down embers to ensure the ﬁ  re doesn’t 
spark back up again, Bond said.“It just takes a lot of man-
power and a lot of time going out there everyday, getting in there 
with water and hoses and brush trucks,” she said.
While Alachua County hasn’t 
yet felt the effects of the state-wide wildﬁ  re surge, Alachua County Fire Rescue Chief Bill Northcutt said he and his ﬁ  ghters are on alert. VOLUME 111 ISSUE 146
Statewide wildfires raise concern in Alachua County
SEE FIRE,  PAGE 4Courtesy to the Alligator
Morgan Montaudo, a 23-year-old UF alumna, poses with Biscotti, the service dog she helped train. 
She will soon attend a ceremony to hand over his leash to a forever owner.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Summer A and Summer 
C sessions kicked off with a record 
number of students enrolled: 26,703.
Tammy Aagard, UF’s associ-
ate vice president for enrollment 
management, said total enrollment increased from the last Summer ses-sions by 1,407 students.The enrollment number does not 
mean these students are physically in Gainesville, Aagard said. Total enrollment includes being involved in a variety of experiences UF has to 
offer, including studying abroad, in-
ternships and online programs. 
Aagard said the increase in stu-
dent enrollment over Summer could be because of the increasing fresh-man class sizes. She said UF’s Class of 2019 and 
2020 were two of the largest incom-ing freshman classes, which lead to more students enrolling in Summer sessions. 
Although undergraduate students 
are required to take nine credit hours over Summer to graduate, Aagard said this does not have to be a bur-den for students. 
“I think that the University of Florida has done a good job in help-ing students have lots of options that would still meet the spirit of the re-
quirement, but would do things that 
would enhance their experience,” she said. 
Aagard said students have more 
time over Summer to expand their 
horizons. Studying abroad, interning 
or taking online classes allow stu-dents to meet the requirement while gaining experience outside the uni-versity, she said.
She said she believes the overall 
number of total enrollment will not continue to grow, but rather level out during the next few years.
Luc Adeclate, a UF psychol-
ogy junior, said while he is taking classes during his second Summer in Gainesville, he enjoys how relaxing it is. 
“I wouldn’t really do anything in 
the Summer anyway if it wasn’t for school,” the 20-year-old said. “Even though it’s a faster pace, it’s not as much work, it seems.”
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org 
 Record enrollment for Summer A and C terms
Total enrollment increased by 1,407
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
On April 30, 23-year-old Mor-
gan Montaudo walked across the 
stage of the O’Connell Center — a 
proud UF graduate. At the end of 
the Summer, her dog Biscotti will graduate, too.
While Biscotti attended many of 
Montaudo’s health science courses, he will not be graduating with a de-gree from UF. However, he already has a job lined up.
Biscotti has been training to be 
a service dog.
Before meeting Montaudo, 
Biscotti was part of the “Prison Pup Program,” a partnership between 
New Horizons Service Dogs in Or-
ange City, Florida, and the Florida Department of Corrections.
In the program, Biscotti was trained by inmates, which im-proved the inmates’ life skills and 
conﬁ  dence. This helped them stay 
out of the system after release.
Montaudo volunteered in Octo-
ber to socialize Biscotti. Her role is to introduce him to the outside en-
vironment and provide continuous 
training.
“He made my college experience 
so much better,” she said. “He put 
so much happiness in my life and a 
smile on my face.”
She said she takes him every-
where she goes.
The students in her classes, who 
were studying the medical profes-sion, were aware of how to act around a service dog, she said.
“They let him do his job,” Mon-
taudo said, “but they loved him.  UF student graduates 
alongside service dog
SEE DOGS,  PAGE 4Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Burger King restaurant re-
opening
Burger King will be hosting 
a ceremonial opening of the 
Burger King restaurant, where 
the Whopper was originally 
created, today at 10 a.m. This 
restaurant was rebuilt and is 
re-opening on the 60th anni -
versary of the creation of the 
Whopper — which occurred in 
Gainesville in 1957. The res -
taurant is located at 6123 NW 
Eighth Ave.
Toastmasters open house
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
club is having an open house 
today at 5:45 p.m. in the 
Entomology-Nematology  
Building. Are you looking to 
improve your public speak -
ing? Come and see what 
Toastmasters is all about. The 
open house is free and open to 
the public.
River of Dreams
The Matheson History 
Museum’s new exhibition, 
“River of Dreams: The St. 
Johns and Its Springs,” runs 
from now until June 24. This 
original exhibition examines 
Floridians’ past, present and 
future relationship with the 
St. Johns River and its springs. 
The exhibition and all related 
programs are free and open to 
the public. The exhibition in -
cludes original work by pho -
tographer Anne Ledbetter and 
Bruce Mozert; artifacts from 
Kingsley Plantation; a model 
of the Silver Glen Springs shell 
mound; documents and imag -
es on loan from UF, Smathers 
Library, Special & Area Studies 
Collections and the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper 
project; and images of the St. 
Johns River, Ocklawaha River 
and Silver Springs from the 
Matheson’s photographic, ste -
reographic and postcard col -
lections. It will be open from 
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. For more in -
formation, visit mathesonmu -
seum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at 
UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The ex -hibition features work by 
Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu -
lar street artist. In “Layers,” 
Kanishcheva explores abstract 
photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in -
clude abstract photographs of 
layers on the 34th Street Wall, 
fallen paint chips of different 
sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 
9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby 
Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa -
tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/
university-galleries.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar 
Comedy Boom features live 
stand-up comedy every 
Wednesday night. Local come -
dians open the show for a dif -
ferent nationally touring head -
liner each week. Doors open at 
8:45 p.m., and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will 
accompany the show.
GatorNights ft. Lakin
GatorNights hopes you’re sail -
ing smoothly through your 
Summer classes, Gators. Invite 
some shipmates to GatorNights 
on Friday as you create a mes -
sage in a bottle or win the 
small boat race competition. 
Experience another world 
with virtual reality or test 
your knowledge at some pirate 
trivia. You may even be greet -
ed by Captain Jack Sparrow 
himself. Come grab some free 
food, and enjoy a live acous -
tic performance from guest 
artist Lakin. The featured film 
this night is "Logan," show -
ing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
GatorNights is always Friday 
and always free for UF stu -
dents with their Gator 1 Card 
at the Reitz Union. Attendees 
must be current students to 
participate and are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
In John and William Bartram's 
wake
The Matheson is excited to 
welcome author and outdoor 
adventure guide Lars Andersen 
and Putnam County Bartram 
Trail creators Sam Carr and 
Dean Campbell on Thursday at 6 p.m. They will be discussing 
John and William Bartram’s 
travels down the St. Johns 
River more than 250 years ago. 
This program coincides with 
the Matheson’s current exhib -
it, "River of Dreams: The St. 
Johns and Its Springs."
John and William Bartram, 
father and son, traveled the 
St. Johns River in 1765. They 
made drawings and wrote viv -
id descriptions of all that they 
saw of La Florida. The panel -
ists will explore this rich his -
tory and share how paddlers 
and hikers can recreate their 
journey on the Bartram Trails 
in Putnam County, Alachua 
County and other areas the 
Bartrams visited.
Lubee Bat Conservancy open 
house  
In honor of Endangered 
Species Day, the Lubee Bat 
Conservancy will host its 
Open House/Open Wings 
event Saturday from 11 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. The entrance fee is 
$5 per person, and children  
ages 4 and under get in for 
free. Guests will also have a 
chance to listen to educational 
talks, check out their native 
bat houses and talk to experts 
on installation and exclusion 
and view the bats playing with 
numerous toys. The event is 
great for all ages.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis -
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis -
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 13th St .  Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 146
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  64°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
  mwatkinson@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online  Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
 Assistant Sports Editor   Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board  Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson  
 Photo Editor  Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price
 Copy Editors  Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti  
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives  Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez , Carter Page, Nicole T anner
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren Johnson  TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
From public speaking to mental math, a re-
cent study from UF research has shown dogs 
may be the solution to children’s most stressful moments.
One hundred children from Gainesville, ages 
7 to 12, participated in a study published this month that measured children’s saliva for corti-sol — a stress-sensitive hormone — before and after stressful activities.  
“We took a commonly held belief and put it 
to a very rigorous test,” said Darlene Kertes, an assistant professor in UF’s psychology depart-ment. “Public speaking and mental math are known stressors for both children and adults.They are known to mimic stressors in real life.”
The kids were divided into three groups to 
perform a stressful act. One group had no social support, another had a parent present and the third group had the family dog on the sidelines. When kids enter the middle part of their child-hood, they begin interacting with social support ﬁ  gures other than their parents, said Kertes, the lead investigator.
“A lot of kids talk about having strong emo-
tional ties to their pets,” she said. “It seemed 
like a natural question to ask if pets can provide 
social support to children.”
The kids who interacted with their dogs 
during the activity not only said they were less stressed, but their saliva proved it.
“Other studies have looked into therapy 
dogs at hospitals and on university campuses 
before exams, and there are correlations be-
tween dogs and reduced stress,” Kertes said.
She said she chose a pet dog as opposed 
to an unfamiliar dog for the study because the child would have already formed an emotion-al bond with the animal, causing them to be calmer. 
“There’s a natural human-animal bond,” 
said Terry Biehl, a therapy dog handler in 
Gainesville. 
She handles Beau, a goldendoodle registered 
with the Alliance of Therapy Dogs. He volun-
teers at UF Health Shands Hospital and William S. Talbot Elementary school.
At Talbot, he visits special needs students, 
one of whom spoke for the ﬁ  rst time to say 
“Beau.”
“People gravitate toward Beau,” Biehl said. 
“It’s one of the reasons I got into therapy work.”
She said she can see a calmness on chil-
dren’s faces when they pet Beau. 
Kertes said stress can impact children’s emo-
tional well-being, social relationships, their abil-
ity to handle professional responsibility and can cause a large number of stress-related disorders, 
like anxiety, cancer and cardiovascular disease. 
“How kids learn to cope with stress impacts 
how they cope with stress for the rest of their 
lives,” she said.  Study shows that  dogs help children in managing stress
Courtesy to the Alligator
Beau, a goldendoodle registered with the Alliance of Therapy Dogs, volunteers at UF 
Health Shands Hospital and at William S. T albot Elementary School to help children.
Courtesy to the Alligator
T erry Biehl, Beau’s handler, said she can see a calmness on children’s faces when they pet him.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017“We’re always real conscious this time 
of year,” he said. “The winter and early 
spring are always a difficult time for us.”
Last year, Northcutt and his force wor-
ried about the potential for wildlife fires, but heavy rains eventually came in spring, saturating the ground and settling their 
fears of fires in the hotter summer months.
This year is different, though, Northcutt 
said. The weather’s drier than before.
Keller said this year’s drought is like-
ly a result of the La Nina effect, a major weather event that occurs every few years. 
Last year, some areas in the state had more rains than anytime on record, which can 
cause a rebound in drier weather, he said.
“On the heels of (La Nina), often there is 
long periods of drought,” Keller said. “And 
that is what we’re experiencing now.” 
Keller said officials expect conditions to 
continue through the rest of May, June and into July.
AFR and the Florida Forest Service rec-
ommended that the Alachua County Board 
of Commissioners implement a burn ban, 
which puts a halt on fireworks and any unpermitted outdoor burning to lower the risk of a major fire outbreak, Northcutt 
said. The ban took effect April 25. 
“It’s typically carelessness,” Northcutt said, referring to the usual causes behind even the largest wildfires. “If it’s not acts 
of God, it’s acts of man.”
At this point in the season, even the 
possibility of small showers in the coming 
days wouldn’t help the drought, Northcutt 
said.
“Even if we get an inch (of rain) that 
won’t have any effect on this drought,” he said. “It might minimize the risk for a day 
or two. We really just need sustained rain 
for a week or more.” 
For Charlie Canal, these conditions 
point to climate change. 
Canal, a UF alumnus who graduated in 
May with a bachelor’s degree in forestry, said aside from history of wildfires in Flori-
da, these types of widespread wildfires will 
pop up more frequently because of man’s influence over ocean and atmosphere tem-peratures.
“Everything is just becoming warmer, 
and it’s causing more droughts over time,” the 23-year-old said.
Canal said the current weather condi-
tions — low humidity in the air, dry plants 
and vegetation — are ripe for fires to 
spread out of control.
“Hopefully it rains, because that’s what 
we really need,” Canal said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Gov. Scott declared state of emergency in light of wildfires
FIRE,  from pg. 1Courtesy to the Alligator
Morgan Montaudo poses with Biscotti. She volunteered in October to 
raise him as a service dog for someone else who needs him.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
This summer, the 14 monthlong 
construction of Gainesville’s first food 
hall will begin.
Stengel Field Food Hall will open in 
the Fall of 2018 at Butler Town Cen-
ter, a shopping center currently being 
constructed off Archer Road, and will mimic popular food halls that have opened across the U.S. in recent years.
The food hall will have the benefits 
of a fast-food restaurant while still pur-suing culinary excellence and nutri-tious offerings, wrote Mary Reichardt, the corporate director of marketing for 
Butler Enterprises, in an email.
“Looking at cities comparable to us 
in culture like Austin and Portland, we 
see what a great opportunity the food hall is to showcase and explore our food and beverage scene,” Reichardt said. 
The space, which will be curated by 
local chef and restaurant owner Bert 
Gill, will house between 11 and 15 ven-dors, Reichardt said.
The company is attempting to bring 
Gainesville’s thriving craft beer, brew-ery, food truck and dining scene to the 
food hall, Reichardt said.
This will also be very beneficial to 
students who do not have a car, Reich-ardt said. The food hall will have gro-ceries, dining and shopping all in one walkable location, making it easy for students to accomplish multiple tasks. 
“More than just a place to get a 
quick bite, the food hall is artisan food, well prepared and interesting, in an environment that is engaging, experi-ential and still relaxed,” Reichardt said. 
Ryan Murphy, a UF biomedical 
engineering junior, said although he doesn’t eat out very often, he likes the idea of a store where you could simul-taneously shop for groceries and eat a 
meal. 
“I think it’s a great idea,” the 
20-year-old said. “I know I’d use it.”
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.orgFood hall to open in 
new Butler Town Center
Everybody loved him.”
Montaudo said she was happy  that others 
on campus who were not aware of how to act 
around service animals could learn and become 
aware.
A lot of changes are happening in Montaudo’s 
life after graduation, and she said  that now is 
a good time to give Biscotti back so he can help 
someone who needs him.
“They hold a ceremony to hand over the leash 
from the trainer to his forever person,” she said. “I’ll be there to meet the person and, hopefully, 
keep in touch with them.”
Before the graduation, the forever owner goes 
through a two-week training process to learn how 
to work with the dog, said Ellen Grimm, a volun-
teer coordinator for New Horizons Service Dogs.
Grimm said anyone can be a puppy raiser if 
they have the time to work with the dog daily and 
the money to support the dog by paying for food and veterinary bills.
She said many UF students have volunteered 
to be puppy raisers.“It’s a great socialization opportunity for the 
puppies to be on campus,” Grimm said.
The puppies are placed with their forever 
owners based on the skills they learn, she said.
She said dogs are placed with people who 
have post-traumatic stress disorder, autism and cerebral palsy.
Grimm said the dogs learn how to retrieve 
things such as cell phones and keys. They turn lights on and off, open cabinets and push auto-
matic door buttons.
“It’s an awesome feeling to see some people 
leave their home,” she said. “The program gives 
people the confidence to go out and do what they need to do.”
While Montaudo is going to miss Biscotti, she 
said she plans to continue working with service dogs in the future as an occupational therapist.
“I have this summer off to travel and work 
before I apply for graduate school,” she said. “I may even foster another dog.”DOGS,  from pg. 1Biscotti’s service training is completeBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Deputies have named a sus-
pect in the April shooting that 
left a Hawthorne woman dead.
On May 6, the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office an-
nounced in a press release that 
Blake Carrington Jackson, 21, is 
now a suspect in the murder of 
Christin Marie Cassels, 23, after 
he was arrested in Pleasantville, New Jersey.
Jackson was arrested by the 
U.S. Marshall’s Service, a fed-eral law enforcement agency, 
based on outstanding drug 
charges from Putnam County, Florida, according to the re-
lease.
ACSO deputies originally 
considered Jackson a person of 
interest in Cassels’ death, mean-
ing they believed he had spe-cific knowledge of her death or was nearby when the shooting 
happened, according to Alliga-
tor archives.
However, after ACSO was 
notified of Jackson’s arrest May 
5, deputies flew to the Atlantic 
County Jail in New Jersey to 
interview him about Cassels’ 
death, said ACSO Sgt. Chris Sims. 
After the inter-
view, deputies 
determined 
that Jackson 
was a suspect in the murder 
rather than a 
person of interest, Sims said.
On April 21 at about 11:25 
p.m., after receiving reports of a person shot, deputies found Cassels dead from an apparent 
gunshot wound inside a garage 
behind her home. She died four 
days before her 24th birthday. It appeared that multiple rounds had been fired into the garage 
structure from outside.
“It’s an active and ongoing 
investigation,” Sims said.
Sims said he did not know 
whether deputies have identi-
fied any other suspects in the 
case aside from Jackson.
In a separate case, Jackson 
was arrested March 3 in Bro-ward County, Florida, where 
he faces a charge of grand theft auto, according to county court 
records. He is set to appear at 
the county courthouse for an ar-raignment today.
As of press time, Jackson 
remains at the Atlantic County 
Jail in New Jersey and is be-
ing held without bond. He will 
be transported to the Putnam County Jail in Palatka, Florida, 
in the near future, Sims said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgACSO: Suspect arrested in New 
Jersey in Hawthorne homicide
Jackson
“... they loved him. Everybody loved him.”
Morgan Montaudo
Biscotti’s temporary ownerTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
MEET THE EDITORS
Molly Vossler is a 
20-year-old journal-ism senior serving as the Alligator’s editor-in-chief this 
Summer. In the last year, she has covered local government, among many other things, for the Alligator as both a staff and contributing writer. Originally from West Hartford, Connecti-cut, Molly is an avid lover of all things New England and 
plans on attending law school 
there after graduating from UF. Law school, however, will occur only after taking a long 
and leisurely gap year in South 
America where she will mas-
ter the Spanish language and the consumption of chicken chimichangas. If not checking 
her email, you can find Molly 
on her balcony listening to An-
derson .Paak or on her couch watching premium cable with a dog.
Ryan Serpico is a 22-year-old journalism senior and anthropol-ogy minor and the Alligator’s managing 
online editor this Summer. He started at the Alligator last summer as a contributing writ-er after transferring to UF in the Spring from Broward Col-lege in South Florida. He miss-es the Miami Heat, but not the Miami heat. He’s fascinated by technology and how it impacts the world’s culture and wants to become a technology report-er. This way, he has a front row seat to see everything that comes out of Silicon Valley, whether it be the next iPhone or a $700 smart juicer. When he’s not reading about how artificial intelligence will take over the world, he dabbles in a bit of code, coffee snobbery and basketball fanaticism.Mary-Lou Watkinson 
is a 20-year-old jour-nalism senior and the 
Alligator’s managing 
print editor this Sum-
mer. The Florida native worked on copy desk for the past five 
semesters, where she meticu-
lously corrected people’s gram-mar and AP Style, while also removing every Oxford comma known to man. She is the self-
proclaimed Alligator grandma. 
When she’s not editing it up at the Alligator, she can be found watching “Rick and Morty” or 
Aziz Ansari comedy specials. 
She loves food — especially sweets — sleeping, air and un-comfortable situations. When not checking her email, be-
cause she rarely does, you can 
find Mary-Lou running away from her problems at the gym or silently crying to Drake in 
the shower. 
Abigail Miller is a 
20-year-old journalism junior and the 
Alligator’s opinions 
editor this Summer. 
She started at the Alligator last semester as an opinions 
columnist. She prides herself 
on her ability to consume nearly six cups of coffee per day and the fact she knows the entire “Hamilton” soundtrack 
by heart. She considers herself 
a pug enthusiast and hopes one day to own a black pug named Benedict — Benny for short. 
She loves all things politics 
and will hopefully find a job doing communications for a  nonprofit organization like the American Civil Liberties 
Union. When she isn’t listening 
to NPR, Abigail is probably listening to Broadway musicals or getting lost in the produce 
section at Lucky’s Market. Editor-In-Chief Managing Print
Managing Online Opinions
Summer 2017The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Are we inching closer 
to World War III?
There are few things more terrifying than the unknown 
of a nuclear war. The simple press of a button could wipe out entire countries — entire continents.
The uncharted territory of nuclear destruction is 
what caused Cold War-era Americans to live each day 
in fear. They lived in a constant panic. They existed on edge, knowing that a nuclear war could erupt at any moment and life as they knew it would cease to exist — they would cease to exist. With the fall of the Soviet Union, the Cold War is be-lieved to have concluded. Unfortunately, I suspect we are on the verge of a similar scenario, with a much less level-headed man sitting behind the big red button.
North Korea has long been boasting about its ability to send 
nuclear missiles and bombs to the U.S. mainland and our Pacif-ic holdings. In response, President Donald Trump has gleefully announced his “Mega-Bomb” capable of reaching North Korea. While these bombastic declarations may appear to be nothing 
more than a pissing match between power-hungry world lead-
ers, I fear our nation and world are in great danger.  
In the past few months, Trump has said many things that 
shake me to my very core. His position on nuclear war, how-
ever, is possibly the most petrifying. Far too many times, our 
commander in chief has spoken about the prospect of nuclear 
war with a ghastly glimmer in his eye.
As tensions between the U.S., Russia, China and North Ko-
rea intensify, America is creeping closer and closer to a second 
Cold War era leading up to World War III. In 2016, North Ko-rea conducted two nuclear tests and just recently conducted a ballistic missile test. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has ac-cused the U.S. and South Korea of conspiring against his coun-try and has warned the U.S. not to “recklessly provoke” the nation, implying that a full-on nuclear war could be the result.
After Trump’s missile strike on a Syrian military base last 
month, he showed Americans, as well as the world, that he has no problem with launching attacks when he sees fit. World leaders voiced their opinions of the attack with Syria, Russia and Iran criticizing the decision, while Saudi Arabia and Israel exulted the act. 
It is my hypothesis that a nuclear attack will be the start of 
World War III and the end of the world. Despite our general lack of knowledge about nations like North Korea and Rus-sia, they aren’t the nations that I’m worried about causing the world to combust in combat. What concerns me most is the uncertainty of our own nation. Trump has blustered about our military’s impressive weaponry and even claimed we should want to be “unpredictable” with nuclear weapons.
A world war this day in age would annihilate us all. With 
nuclear and chemical warfare on the table, conflict would esca-
late beyond what was seen in World War I and World War II. 
I can certainly understand why people believe we shouldn’t 
shy away from international attacks. We are a strong nation, 
and we want to be seen as such. But is it really worth it if it brings us to war? I feel our nation can remain strong and re-
spected without bringing the world to the brink of destruction. 
I hope as a nation we can begin to strive for peace, rather 
than escalating an already dangerous situation. With such high-
risk weaponry in play, we have much more to worry about los-ing than our reputation.Did you know being a UF student entitles 
you to a free, yearlong digital subscrip-tion to The New York Times?  
After learning of this perk before 
the last presidential election, I took ad-
vantage of it over the last few months. I have learned, to my dismay, that the Times is not the 
type of nonpartisan resource to which UF should 
be encouraging its students to turn to for neutral news.
The paper, which remains one of the coun-
try’s most well-recognized, has recently published nu-
merous controversial and disputed stories that have de-
tracted from its journalistic integrity.  These problematic articles may have resulted from the pressures that the pa-per feels to compete in an industry ever more reliant on 
drawing clicks to drive advertising revenue. This hardly 
justifies the sacrifice of factual reliability. The more likely influence is political partisanship.
My problem with the Times is that it can no longer 
be counted on as a disinterested reporter of the facts. 
Instead, it has become little more than the leader of a 
liberal choir whose every column inch, whether called news or opinion, reflects only ideas hostile to both con-servatives and President Donald Trump. Recently, the 
Times made an effort to employ more bipartisan writers, 
(although still none who support Trump) to “balance” its approach. The reaction to this attempt to reflect a broad-er range of ideas on the political spectrum is exactly why I believe the university should make a deal with another 
publication.  
On April 28, former Wall Street Journal columnist Bret 
Stephens published his first Times column. The article 
articulated his view that climate science, like all science, 
should be assessed with vigorous skepticism rather than 
accepted as undeniable truth. Sounds pretty sensible, right?  Instead of reading and simply disagreeing with his article, the Times subscribers began canceling their subscriptions in protest. Is this the kind of readership we want to be associated with? 
One that cannot read ideas that conflict with 
their own? Personally, I would prefer that the university partner with another, more bipar-tisan paper that allows every side of a debate 
to be heard, not just the liberal ones.  
Pew Research surveyed the readership of 
every media publication in 2014 and found 
“The New York Times audience (13% of re-
spondents) skews to the left. About two-thirds of its au-
dience (65%) have political values that are left of center 
(compared with 38% of all Web respondents).” This data has probably only become more extreme after the 2016 election, and yet UF still only offers a subscription to the 
Times.  
Universities should be open to all ideas, even ones 
that the majority of people disagree with. Academic in-
stitutions used to pride themselves in solving problems through constructive debate, where all sides are heard 
and the best ideas, regardless of who promotes them, 
are adopted. By providing a subscription to a paper that only espouses extreme liberal ideals, UF is preventing its students from doing just that. 
This lack of conflicting ideas limits constructive debate 
about any issue and encourages students to hold certain 
beliefs, instead of providing multiple perspectives and allowing them to decide which is the “best.” I hope the university will realize that this partnership is keeping its Student Body uninformed and will make an effort to find a paper that reflects the views of all Americans, not just the far left.  
Jack Story is a UF political science graduate. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.UF must reconsider free subscriptions to the Times
Jack Story
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7 UF professor made questionable accusations
Thanks for the observant account by Romy 
Ellenbogen, "Controversial Princeton Holocaust 
historian visits UF," from the Alligator on April 3, from which I quote: 
"As Jan Tomasz Gross addressed a crowd 
Sunday night, a single image was projected be-hind him.
"About 30 Polish peasants and uniformed of-
ficials stood with farm tools in a desert-like field. Near the end of his lecture, Gross drew attention to the previously unmentioned image, inviting the crowd of about 50 to look closer. Skulls laid at the feet of the Polish peasants.
"He said the desert-like ground was not sand, 
but rather the ashes of hundreds of thousands of slaughtered Jewish residents. He said the peas-ants standing above were rifling through the ash-es to try to find Jewish gold and jewels.
"'Those involved in the crime were opportun-
ists,' he said. 'Where the opportunity arose, they were not shy to take it.'”
The controversial professor made an interpre-
tation of the photograph and followed with an ac-cusation. This distracts from whatever merits his arguments and his book, Golden Harvest, may have, because his interpretation is questionable, and his accusation is unmoored. Historian Piotr Gontarczyk writes critically: 
"Soon after the publication of Golden Har-
vest, two investigative journalists from the Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita...arrived in the Tre-
blinka area. Their account clarified that Gross's 
anchor photograph depicts no 'diggers' caught by the militia, but a team of men and women cleaning up the gravesite. The version presented by (rival newspaper) Gazeta Wyborcza's writers was most likely a deliberate fabrication, they con-cluded. The newspaper (GW) removed the false caption under the archived photo, and Gazeta Wyborcza reporters...admitted, 'We do not know the circumstances under which that photo was 
taken.'"
To appreciate. Gross's work, one must also 
consider his critics. The citation above is from 
Golden Harvest or Hearts of Gold?: Studies on the Wartime Fate of Poles and Jews, eds. Marek Jan Chodakiewicz, Wojciech Jerzy Muszynski, and Pawel Styrna, Leopolis Press 2012, p. 73. Have the event sponsors referenced this critical work?
To me it seems plain that we are not looking at 
"diggers caught by the militia," for no one seems to look "caught." One peasant woman with head bowed stands with bloused white sleeves, her hands on the handle of a shovel, the blade at her feet, posing calmly and solemnly; one could even say respectfully. The soldier holding the rifle is leaning it at rest and obviously is not interested in employing it. None of the several troopers is in any military posture. 
Hence the interpretation by professor Gross 
fails assurance for accuracy (or, in a euphemism, it is "controversial") and thus fails the require-ment for Accuracy in Instructional Materials mandated in Section 1006.35 of the Florida K-20 Education Code. 
Are the event sponsors and the Florida De-
partment of Education prepared to administer a correction?
Gordon Black, Chair
Committee for Education
The Polish American Congress
Northern California DivisionColumn
As 2017 nears its 
half birthday, it is only fair for people 
to reach a progress 
report-type sum-
mary of successes and fail-ures. Society collectively es-
tablished 2016 as a bad year, 
even though life as a whole is a photo of us with a radial blur filter. The only ones who truly decide this fate of perpetual mis-
fortune are us.
Reflection often turns into compari-
son when people share their accom-
plishments through social media, for 
example, and others find it difficult to 
handle when their accomplishments do not match up. While praise fulfills the desire for a validation quickie, are we living our best lives when that seems to 
have replaced a real goal?
Living the best life is at the discre-
tion of each person, of course, so it 
only makes sense to look out for oneself 
first. What one thinks they really want 
is heavily influenced by other popular opinions. Some relatable instances are when someone earns a fancy, paid in-ternship, when an old friend is complet-
ing an enviable life goal or when peers 
who cross campus every day seem to be doing better in one sense or another.
While I’m putting in the effort to live 
day-to-day yet still keeping all things considered, others could be stuck in different parts of the process of find-ing a harmony with their surroundings. Some may tag themselves with a hor-
rifying reality such as switching from a 
STEM major or forced to listen to their dorm roommate have sex because they forget the other was in there, and others 
could relate more to an ignorant bliss of 
non-problems by tagging themselves as a junior by credits. (Disclaimer: I was a junior by credits, but I only tagged my-self as such in high school. The follow-
ing sentence may clear that up nicely).
In my past as a young adult, I identi-
fied with pretentious labels of naivety 
and curiosity. In the end, I would say I 
am literally just trying.It is with full disclosure 
I say that while I still shoot 
for every opportunity I could 
possibly handle (and some-
times I accept far too many opportunities), I try to com-plete them with more ef-
fort into benefitting my life 
beyond just the next week rather than effort that simply garners attention. In a more 
digestible set of words: love yourself, 
dear readers.
Crushing with their weight of re-
sponsibility is just about everything 
in life. The pleasing of the subjects in 
front of us tends to actually be a game 
of who can do it better. Amid a year of less than satisfactory grades, sev-eral job rejections, prolonged illness, a hurtful break-up and the deaths of 
three loved ones, it is imperative some-
one steps from this ring of emotional turmoil knowing the worth of what is more tangible than what they don’t 
know is yet to come.
The essence of learning to coexist for 
yourself is this: Enjoy the ride. The ones who grow every day are the ones who 
don’t look to what tomorrow will bring for satisfaction. Today’s success should strictly be about the mystery good you will accomplish tomorrow, whatever 
that good may be. Try in the name of 
your own well-being, eliminate the vali-
dation quickie from your wishlist, and 
bask in the distraction that is the meme.
Karla Arboleda is a UF journalism 
and international studies senior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Tag yourself, I’m literally just trying
Karla 
Arboleda
opinions@alligator.org
Letter to the Editor
"In my past as 
a young adult, I 
identified with 
pretentious labels 
of naivety and 
curiosity."8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO 
FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITION:
Photographers
Please send resume 
and clips to mvossler@alligator.organd editor@alligator.org
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
At a local brewery Friday night, 
Kristen Reaver wrote postcards to 
Florida senators explaining how the 
American Health Care Act could af-
fect her, if passed by the Senate.
At First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany, about 50 members of the 
Gainesville chapter of Women’s 
March Florida at the “I Am a Pre-existing Condition Postcard Writing Party,” which promoted the fight against the American Health Care 
Act, a bill that was passed by the U.S. 
House of Representatives on May 5.
Event-goers chose from 32 unique, 
pre-made postcards that shared sto-
ries and photos of local women with 
pre-existing conditions who would be affected by the legislature.
On the back of each postcard, 
party guests penned personalized 
messages to Florida Sens. Marco Ru-
bio and Bill Nelson explaining how the American Health Care Act would negatively affect them. Many said they believe that women with pre-existing conditions will be put at a 
disadvantage with the new bill.
The newly amended American 
Health Care Act is intended to replace 
former President Barack Obama’s health care law. Once back in ses-
sion, the Senate will vote to either 
reject or approve the bill.
Reaver, a 27-year-old member of 
an environmental protection action 
group within Women’s March Flori-
da, said being a part of the organiza-tion is important to her as a female scientist, especially since she experi-ences sexism in her male-dominated 
career field.
“I think it’s so important to under-
stand that all of these issues affect 
women,” Reaver said. “Some of them 
affect women disproportionately to 
their male counterparts.”
Holly Sprinkle, the team captain 
of Women’s March Gainesville, said the legislation will affect about 24 
million people nationally, including 
herself and her two special needs children.“Our goal is to hopefully change 
the narrative around the legislation 
for health care and make it about 
people instead of health care compa-nies and saving taxes,” she said.
Sprinkle said she has been in-
volved with Women’s March since 
Nov. 9, the same day President Don-
ald Trump was elected and the same day the organization was founded.  
Women’s March has a total of 22 
chapters in Florida, Sprinkle said, and all of its events are put on by volunteers.
As a cancer survivor, Sprinkle said 
she was extremely proud to be a part 
of the postcard-writing party, since 
she knows what it feels like to be de-nied access to health care due to a pre-existing condition.
“It helps all of us to have strong, 
healthy communities,” Sprinkle said. “We’re just trying to make an impact on the local level and state level — and if we can, on the national level 
as well.”
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org In ﬁ  ght against AHCA  bill, women send senators postcards
Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff
On Friday night, through the use of postcards, 32 
women with pre-existing health conditions told their stories to protest the American Health Care Act.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For Devin Perez, the decision to 
withdraw from Florida’s 2018 gen-
eral election was not easy.
In February, the 19-year-old UF 
Online student ﬁ  led to run in the 
2018 general election as a Democrat 
for the Florida House of Representa-tives’ District 28, representing Semi-nole County. 
On March 9, he publicly an-
nounced his bid to an eager crowd of about 150 at the county’s Demo-cratic Party branch ofﬁ  ce in Cassel-berry, Florida.
But less than two months later, 
on May 2, the Florida Division of Elections received his withdrawal 
letter.
“It was a tough decision,” the 
UF criminology and law senior said. 
The decision ultimately came down to ﬁ  nances, Perez said. Although he currently lives in Oviedo, Florida, and works in information services at a local hospital, Perez is planning on moving back home to Miami with his parents and six younger siblings.
“It would just be cheaper to move 
back home with family,” he said. 
Because he’s moving out of Ovie-
do, which is in Seminole County, Perez said he is no longer able to run for a seat in that district. 
With Perez out of the race, the 
only Democrat currently running for a District 28 seat is Lee Mangold, 
who ﬁ  led for the race April 24, ac-
cording to Florida Division of Elec-
tions records. Mangold, a for-mer adjunct pro-fessor at the Uni-
versity of Central Florida and for-mer cybersecuri-ty contractor with the U.S. military, 
is opposed by re-
tired U.S. Marines Col. David Smith, 
the lone Republican in the race.
Norman Goda, a UF professor 
in the Department of History and Center for Jewish Studies, said the country would be better off with more young people involved in poli-
tics. 
“Part of the reason we have a 
completely dysfunctional system in 
terms of ﬁ  scal policy is because not enough young people are involved in politics,” the 56-year-old said. 
Goda said that historically speak-
ing, younger people usually get in-volved in government when they feel disgusted with a current policy or system.
“I really worry for our system,” 
Goda said. “It can use a good dose of idealism.”
Perez said, for now, he’s primar-
ily focusing on working and making ends meet with his family. He’s un-sure of whether he’ll pursue a House seat for the upcoming elections in his hometown District 115, but he said he hopes to help the Miami-Dade Democratic Party in whatever capacity he can.
Despite knowing that he had to 
drop out for ﬁ  nancial reasons, Di-ego Labarca felt optimism when he heard a fellow UF student had 
attempted to run for a seat in the 
Florida House.
“It’s a huge pride knowing that a 
UF student (tried) running for gov-ernment in Florida,” the 21-year-old said.
Perez said although some may 
have felt disappointed upon hearing he was withdrawing from the race, 
his message remains the same: Get 
involved, and speak out. 
“There’s always something that 
we can do,” Perez said.  
 UF student withdraws from Florida’s 2018 general election 
He said he dropped out due to inancial reasons
Perez
TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — The U.S. 
Supreme Court shut the door Mon -
day on North Carolina Republicans’ 
effort to revive a state law that man -
dated voter identification and scaled 
back early voting, provisions that a 
lower court said improperly targeted 
minority voters. The justices left in 
place last summer’s ruling by the 4th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals striking 
down the law’s photo ID require -
ment to vote in person, which the 
court said targeted African-Amer -
icans “with almost surgical preci -
sion.”
The measure, approved in 2013 
by the state’s Republican-dominated 
legislature, also reduced the number 
of early voting days from 17 to 10 
and prohibited same-day registration 
during the early voting period. Sup -
porters said the measure was neces -
sary to crack down on voter fraud, 
but opponents said the changes 
discourage voting by black and His -
panic residents, who use early voting or same-day registration more than 
white voters and are more likely to 
lack photo ID.
Chief Justice John Roberts cau -
tioned Monday in the two-page or -
der that the rejection of the appeal is 
not a comment on the court’s view 
about the substance of the law. Thir -
ty-two states already have some kind 
of voter ID law in force, according to 
the National Conference of State Leg -
islatures.
The Rev. William Barber, presi -
dent of the North Carolina NAACP, 
said it’s time for Republicans to stop 
proposing new restrictions.
“We urge the General Assembly 
to finally accept that racially discrim -
inatory laws have no place in our 
democracy, and certainly not when 
it comes to the sacred right to vote,” 
Barber said.
The State Board of Elections re -
ported last month that about 500 in -
eligible voters cast ballots out of the 
4.8 million recorded in North Caro -
lina during the November election.‘Uncertainty’ lowers 
voter ID appeal
IT’S FOR THE STRATEGIC 
DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
As part of UF’s strategic de -
velopment plan, the university 
will give $312,760 to research 
projects aimed at improving the 
lives of Gainesville citizens.
UF’s Director of Planning Lin -
da Dixon said the purpose of the 
grants, which will be given to 
seven multidisciplinary projects 
in the city, is to engage students 
in research around Gainesville. 
“It’s really about connecting 
faculty and students with the 
community,” Dixon said. 
Each of the research projects 
feature teams made up of UF 
faculty, graduate students, pro -
fessors from other schools and 
nonprofit community partners. 
They also provide researchers with the opportunity to delve 
into these topics after the proj -
ect’s conclusions.  
“All of these proposals fur -
ther the body of knowledge and 
best practice in their fields of 
exploration with the potential to 
result in academic publication,” 
Dixon said. 
Potential grant recipients had 
to submit their proposal to UF 
Chief Operating Officer and Se -
nior Vice President Charlie Lane 
and were then reviewed by a 
12-person panel. The panel was 
made up of three community 
members, three city officials, 
four UF administrators and two 
UF faculty members. 
Sixty-two research project 
proposals were submitted to the 
committee for review, many of 
which focused on health and 
wellness or economic and envi -
ronmental sustainability.
Initially, the committee was only able to select five recipients 
of the grants because the uni -
versity was only able to give out 
$250,000. However, Gainesville 
Regional Utilities and UF Health 
stepped in to fill in the rest of 
the money, allowing for the se -
lection of projects, Dixon said. 
UF spokesperson Steve Or -
lando said the new grant is just 
another way in which the uni -
versity and the city community 
can work together to become 
pre-eminent.
“The strategic development 
is basically the blueprint for UF 
and the Gainesville community 
to grow together for the next 40 
to 50 years,” Orlando said. “It’s 
a way for the university to show 
that the best way for UF and the 
Gainesville community to grow 
is to grow together.”
@fladam98
aturner@alligator.orgUF gives more than $200,000 to 
improve Gainesville community BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR 
vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      5-16-17-18-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    4-18-17-7-2Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage $950 moWalk to UF. Off street parking. Avail now.We require a first, last and a $500 sec to move in. $40 app/credit check. No Pets 332-5836 weekdays    5-30-17-6-2
Takeover my lease and I'll give you $500. 3bd/2bath apartment available for sublease at Boardwalk Apartments starting June 2017. Rent is $999. Call (786)445-6444 for more information.     5-30-17-5-2
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for 
$899 per month. Washer and dryer included. 
Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-
17-15-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsGOODBIKE / 2 LocationsBicycle Sales and Service425 NW 13th St ● 352-792-6600210 NW 10th Ave ● 352-327-3727
Big selection of new & used bikes    5-23-
17-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design 
using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail-able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    5-18-17-16-14
Need native Italian speaker.
In person conversational lesson.1 to 2 hours per week. Schedule flexible. Reply to JLLSuzy@yahoo.com    5-16-17-4-14Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Wanted someone to complete building a website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14
********Opus Coffee**********
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal-ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr. To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     5-25-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) to assist Quadriplegic w/ADL activities PT: 2-3 providers needed6 AM-10 AM; 12-16 hours weekly $17-$20 hour; CNA or EquivalentContact: caregiverprovider@cox.net     5-30-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '17
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-18-17-2-14
1. Against which team did Babe 
Ruth hit his first home run as a mem-
ber of the New York Yankees in 1920?
2. Which starting pitcher had the 
most combined regular-season victo-ries for the Cincinnati Reds in 1975-
76, when the team won the World 
Series each year?
3. In the 2016 season, the seniors on 
Alabama’s football team set a FBS 
record for most wins in a four-year span (51). Who had held the mark?
4. Who holds the Los Angeles Clip-
pers’ franchise record for most career 
steals?
5. The Philadelphia Flyers of 1979-
80 hold the NHL record for longest 
unbeaten streak. How many of those 35 games were wins, and how many were ties?
6. Name the first Major League Soc-
cer player to score in five consecutive matches during the same postseason.
7. Heavyweight boxing champion 
Larry Holmes started his pro career 
48-0, then lost three consecutive 
bouts. To whom did he lose?
Answers
1. Ruth hit a home run against Bos-
ton. 
2. Gary Nolan won 15 games each 
year, for a team-leading total of 30.
3. Boise State with its 2011 senior 
class, and Ohio State with its 2015 season class.  
4. Randy Smith, with 1,072.5. The Flyers had 25 wins and 10 ties 
during that streak.
6. Toronto’s Jozy Altidore, in 2016.
7. Michael Spinks (in 1985 and 
1986) and Mike Tyson (in 1988).
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 15, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Designated drivers are the greatest12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
FRESH CUSTOM APPAREL
T-shirts, Hats & Uniforms.Screen
printing, Embroidery & Sublimation
FREE Graphic Design & Shipping on
eligible orders.Call, Text or Email for
same day Quote.786-514-6298
joe.plaza@freshprintsmiami.com
5-18-5-15
NORTHFLO CROSSFIToffering UF staff and student student dis-count. $99 dollars a month. We also offer personal training and nutrition. Call Today 352-470-9131    5-23-17-5-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Latvian capital
5 Sites for vows
11 Blues great __
Mahal
14 Turow book set
at Harvard
15 __ pork: Chinese
dish withpancakes
16 Yellowfin tuna17 Two-time Emmy
winner for “30Rock”
19 Bart, to Homer
20 Vixen teammate
21 ’80s Indiana
senator Quayle
22 Underworld river
23 Dug up
dandelions, say
25 Like some bank
accounts
27 Doles (out)
29 Place for bottom
feeders
32 Red gemstone
35 Walked (on)37 Avoid capture by38 Artist Yoko39 San Francisco
neighborhood
41 Poorly lit42 The South44 Boo Boo’s pal45 Analogy words46 Squirreled away
48 Records for later
watching
50 Castro of Cuba
52 Electric cars
named for a
physicist
55 Sports officials
57 Chinese
chairman
59 Monopoly square
with a question
mark
61 Former White
House Press
SecretaryFleischer
62 Unofficial means
of communication,
and a hint toeach set ofcircled letters
64 Attack, to Fido
65 Five Nations tribe66 Tennis drop shot67 Text giggle68 Most weird69 Catches sight ofDOWN
1 “Rocky __ to
Dublin”: Irish 
tune
2 Kin by marriage
3 Sixth-day-of-
Christmas gift
4 Lead-to-gold
pseudoscience
5 Almond-flavored
liqueur
6 Tweeter’s titter7 Broadway barber
Sweeney __
8 Dam on the Nile9 Safari herbivores
10 Word with screen
or block
11 Umami detectors12 Nautical cry13 Bring bad luck18 George Eliot’s
“Adam __”
22 Navy commando24 Annual Kentucky
event
26 Intuit
28 Really sexy
30 Clean up Time?
31 Trade show
model
32 Anglers’ gear33 Textbook 
division34 Where to pick up
“will call” tickets
36 Entry in a sudoku
square
39 “All You __ Is
Love”
40 Online customer
service option
43 Eye part
45 Cruise stops47 Insist on49 Labor Dept. arm
51 Tied, as skates53 “Tomorrow”
musical
54 Movie trailer
segment
55 Itchy red area
56 Buffalo’s Great
Lake
58 Sooner migrant
60 Part of BPOE
62 Ghostly greeting63 Fixed-term
investments,briefly
By Debbie Ellerin
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/16/1705/16/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 16, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Horford helps Celtics get by Wizards
Former UF men's basketball player Al Horford scored 15 points on 6-of-
10 shooting to go along with six rebounds and ﬁ  ve assists on Monday night in Boston's 115-105 win over Washington in Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Semiﬁ  nals.The Florida men's golf team sits 
in ﬁ  fth place after round one the NCAA Regional. Alejandro T osti and Gordon Neale led the way for UF at even par. Read the story, pg. 14.By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida lacrosse team’s season came to 
an end on Sunday following a heartbreaking 
loss to USC – a team it beat earlier in the season – in the second round of the NCAA Tournament.
The loss, however, doesn’t reﬂ  ect the 
season the Gators had.
There were several questions surrounding 
the team before the start of the season. How will they play during a tough non-conference schedule? Which freshmen will step up and contribute to the team right away? Who would lead the offense following Nicole Graziano's graduation? 
Looking back now, all of those questions 
were answered.
Florida entered the season scheduled to 
play ﬁ  ve of the preseason top-six teams, and it faired pretty well.
The Gators only had two losses in the 
regular season, a 13-10 battle against then-No. 1 UNC and an 18-8 defeat against No. 1 Maryland. 
Against USC, Syracuse and Stony Brook, 
the Gators outscored their opponents 56-
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Amanda O'Leary paces during Florida's 
15-8 win against Denver on March 25.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsLooking back on lacrosse's season 
SEE LACROSSE,  PAGE  16By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
Along the west coast of the 
United States, there’s a range of 
large, clay-colored cliffs that sit face-to-face with the waves of the Paciﬁ  c Ocean.
Deep into the distance, the 
blistering sun makes its way towards the horizon as seagulls ﬂ  y along the water. 
The picturesque, 68-acre Sunset 
Cliffs Natural Park in San Diego, California, plays host to thousands of tourists each year.
While many of the visitors 
simply sit on the cliffs to enjoy the breathtaking view, the locals have a bit more of an adventure in mind when they choose to visit.
Cliff-jumping.Yes, you read that right.Several San Diego natives trek to 
an area dubbed the “Arch” to hurl themselves off the 20-foot cliff into 
churning salt water that’s sprinkled 
with hidden rock groupings.
Even though many come out of 
their daring jump unharmed, there is still, of course, a large potential risk involved.
On any given summer day, you 
could ﬁ  nd Delanie Gourley at the cliffs.
But not jumping.“I was too scared to jump off,” 
Gourley said. “All my friends would jump, and I would stand there and watch.”
If she wasn’t observing her 
friends as they made the bold leap while she was growing up, maybe 
she’d be enjoying Mission Beach 
with her family, another favorite location to enjoy the water. The 
beach is on a sandbar that borders 
both the ocean and the San Diego Bay, a simple 30-minute drive from 
her Lakeside, California, residence.
But there’s one thing Gourley 
guarantees she’d be doing at home, 
no questions asked.
She’d be buying a California 
burrito, a San Diego staple.
The burrito consists of carne 
asada, cheese, salsa fresca, sour cream and french fries, the most 
important ingredient.
“Every time I go home, I get 
one. It’s so good,” Gourley said. 
“I go with my family, my friends. I’ll go by myself. I love California burritos. I’ll stop at In-n-Out maybe once, when I come home, maybe. But every other day it’s a California burrito with red sauce.”
Through and through, Delanie 
Gourley exhibits the California-girl lifestyle. She lives for the beach and her good share of Mexican food. 
But she also couldn’t go without 
softball. 
Or her family that helped her 
adjust to playing the sport she loves on the other side of the country, 
pushing her to the dominant role 
she has retained during her time at UF.
•   •   •
While Sunset Cliffs is a typical 
display of the west-coast scenery locals enjoy, it’s not where Gourley grew up. She lived her entire life in Lakeside, California, the east county California Glove: Gourley pitches from  coast to coast
Alligator File Photo
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 14-10 loss to LSU on March 14, 2015, at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium.
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15SOFTBALL
YOUR DYLAN ME SMALLS
I’ve always hated the WWE.
Never liked it. Never will.
The dialogue is cringe-
worthy, the acting is terrible, the costumes are ridiculous 
and the wrestlers look like they’re straight out of a “Lord of the Rings” movie.
Sorry WWE fans, that’s just 
how it is.
However, my biggest and 
most important gripe with professional wrestling has nothing to do with any of that.
No, the thing I hate most about the WWE 
is the fact that its matches are scripted.
What’s the fun in that?How could anyone watch an event with 
serious interest knowing that the outcome has already been decided?
That’s boring to me.The most fascinating thing about sports, 
the thing that makes sports great, is the fact that no one knows what’s going to happen next. Not the fans. Not the athletes. Not the coaches. Not the commentators. No one.
It’s unscripted entertainment 
at its ﬁ  nest, and it brings me back wanting more every single 
day.
Unfortunately, the pre-
determined nature of the WWE 
is beginning to linger over to another sports league, one that I 
used to follow avidly: the National Basketball Association.
While the NBA has never been very 
competitively balanced, its lack of parity this 
season has reached a new extreme.
The league’s top two franchises, the 
Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State 
Warriors, have stacked their rosters with so much talent there’s no longer a mystery over which teams will be competing in June.
The Warriors, after adding superstar  The NBA playoﬀ  s have become boring as hell
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14
Dylan Dixon
twitter: @dylanrdixon14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
WILDLIFE
CROSSINGWelcom/e.end Bac/k.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s ﬁrst issue of the fall semester. 
Place the same ad in both our New Student and Welcome Back editions and take advantage of our 10% pickup discount.
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep Toda/y.end!
352-376-4482 · Alligator Advertising ·  advertising@alligator.org
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.orgBy Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
With high expectations and 
the No. 1 seed in the region, all 
eyes were on the Gators as they 
began round one of the NCAA Regional at Kampen Golf Course 
in West Lafayette, Indiana. When 
Monday's action concluded, 
Florida sat in a tie for fifth place 
after shooting a combined four over par.
The Gators are currently 
five shots back of frontrunner 
UNLV. Coach JC Deacon, now 
in his third year with the Gators, 
was disappointed with the 
performance today but is looking 
for the team to bounce back on 
Tuesday.
“We just didn’t have our best 
today for whatever reason,” Deacon said. “It wasn’t anything glaring … it was a bunch of little 
things. We’re playing good golf 
and I expect a really good round 
out of us tomorrow.”
Alejandro Tosti, the 2017 
individual SEC Champion, had five birdies in his first round of 
play, but also had five bogeys 
to finish at even par, including 
three straight on holes 15-17. 
He’s currently in a ten-way tie 
for 14th.
Gordon Neale also sits in a tie 
for 14th place. Neale had a near mistake-free round, carding only one bogey on the back nine to 
negate his lone birdie on three.
Ryan Orr stayed mostly 
consistent in his first round of 
play. Orr had a clean front nine, parring all of his holes before bogeying on 12. Orr came right back to birdie on 13, but finished 
off his round with a bogey on 18. 
The senior finished the round 
tied for 24th at one over par.
Sam Horsfield had a rough 
outing in his first day in West 
Lafayette. The sophomore began the round with four straight 
bogeys, including a double bogey 
on the second hole. Horsfield 
would bounce back from the 
poor start and finished the round 
at 3 over.
Andy Zhang, the lone 
freshman for the Gators in the group, shot 4 over on the day. 
Prior to the 18th, Zhang was at 
two over before a double bogey 
on the last hole. His performance follows a rough outing at the 
SEC Championship that saw the 
Reunion, Florida, native shoot 16 
over par over the three rounds of 
stroke play.
After seeing his team play on 
Monday, Deacon said the team just needs to be more focused on 
the task at hand.
“We’ve just got to be ready to 
go out of the gate,” Deacon said. “There are some birdie holes 
out there and I think the guys 
saw and learned that today and 
they’ll be ready to go tomorrow. I’m excited to get going.”
The Gators will tee off this 
morning around 8:20. Andy Zhang will begin the day, and Alejandro Tosti will be the 
last Gator on the course at 
approximately 9:04 a.m.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org Florida in ﬁ  fth place after 
Round 1 of NCAA Regionalssmall forward Kevin Durant to 
their lineup this offseason, have a quartet of future hall of famers in Durant, Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green.
The Cavaliers, on the other 
hand, continue to be led by LeBron James, a man who might eclipse Michael Jordan as the greatest basketball player ever by the time his career is said and done.
Combine those two factors 
together, and you have a duo in Cleveland and Golden State that’s 
gone 17-0 in this year’s postseason, 
defeating teams by an average of 12 points per game.
When the season began in October there were very few people who questioned whether the Warriors and the Cavaliers would be meeting again in the NBA Finals for a third consecutive time.
But now, you might as well not 
watch another basketball game until June 1.
The fun that is the 
unpredictability of the NBA postseason has been completely nonexistent this year, with Golden State and Cleveland making the other 14 teams in the tournament 
irrelevant.
“Thank god for the NHL 
playoffs,” Charles Barkley said 
on May 8 during an NBA on TNT halftime show. “That’s what I be watching in the back during these blowouts.”
While this season wasn’t 
scripted by a bunch of writers, it might as well have been. The Warriors and Cavaliers were destined to get to this point, no 
question about it.
So although the postseason has 
peaked my interest a little bit more 
than any WWE event that occurred over the past month, it hasn't been by much.
RIP to the days when basketball 
wasn't so predictable.
 
Dylan Dixon is sports editor 
of the Alligator. His column will 
appear regularly on either Mondays or Wednesdays. 
COLUMN,  from pg. 13
The Associated Press
Warriors forward Kevin Durant (35) and guard Stephen Curry celebrate during Game 1 of the West-
ern Conference Finals on May 14, at Oracle Arena.
MEN'S GOLFof the city.
Lakeside, with a population of 
somewhere around 20,000, gives 
off a much more rural atmosphere when compared to the constant 
bustle of San Diego County. It’s 
home to one of the best rodeos in southern California, giving off an air of small town charm that’s enriched with old-time tradition.
Each year, the county also 
throws a Western Day parade. And every year, Delanie has marched in it, from donning a Dallas Cowboys 
cheerleading costume in elementary 
school, to her El Capitan High School softball uniforms in her teen years. It was a tradition.
“Being from Lakeside,” Gourley 
said, “the rodeo was a big part, and the Western Day parade.”
She was put into softball at the 
age of four, with a little push from 
her father and mother, who played 
softball as she was growing up.
“She was right… they stuck a 
glove in my hand and I just kind of rolled with it,” Gourley said.
Her mother ended up being her 
catcher as she grew up, taking pitch after carefully-crafted pitch.
“Me and my mom are super 
close,” Gourley said, “We are like best friends.”
But it was her older brother, 
Dalton, who was her largest supporter as she thrived in the sport.  He played baseball growing up, but didn’t have the skill-set to go onto the collegiate level the way Gourley did. Nevertheless, he was always her biggest cheerleader.
“I think there can be two ways 
with a sibling,” Gourley said. “They 
can either be resentful and they 
want to be the college athlete, but he was never in doubt supporting me. There were times where I wouldn’t even want the spotlight because I didn’t want to take it 
away from him, so his support has 
made a really big impact.”
•   •   •
For Gourley, softball was always 
fun. When she was little, it was the snacks and a cute helmet that drew her in. As she entered high school at El Capitan, her teammates and 
coaches made it fun. The team's 
head coach, Joe Cota, would bring popsicles to practice. Workouts would end early so the group, filled with girls that played together since a young age, could go out to dinner at Eastbound.
It was so much fun, she became 
motivated to reach the sport's next 
level. Gourley had dreamed of 
playing softball at UCLA – it was an amazing program and fairly close to home. But instead, Florida’s college town atmosphere drew her in. Besides her official visit, she had never traveled to the southeast; not many people from the west coast do.
Could softball still be fun, so far 
away from home?
At first, Gourley was ready to 
get away and head to the SEC for a softball career. But then, after a few months at Florida, homesickness kicked in.
“It was hard,” Gourley said. 
“Initially I was like I was high on leaving…small town, never coming back…and then about three months later I was like, I kind of miss it – 
little East County, I just missed it.”
Despite that distance, California 
never really seemed that far away.
For starters, she had her friends 
from home to speak with on the 
phone.
“We are always there for each 
other when something happens in our lives; I know I can always go to 
(Delanie) about it,” her good friend, 
Jenna Porter, said in a Facebook message. “She is always supportive of me…and I do the same for her. She’s just a great friend.”
And then there was Dalton.“Since day one when I got here, 
he would call me randomly and be like ‘how’s it going, how are 
workouts, how is season, how’s life 
there?’” Gourley said.
There was Aubree Munro, who 
Gourley played with  throughout high school travel ball. She was a dear friend and familiar face for Gourley when the then-freshman stepped on campus for the first time in 2014.
Besides Munro, there were 
numerous California girls who bonded with Gourley at times when going home for a day or two wasn’t an option.
This season alone, there are six 
California natives: Amanda Lorenz, Sophia Reynoso, Justine McLean, Janell Wheaton, Nicole DeWitt and 
Gourley.
“I think the best thing about it is 
that we are all each other’s family away from home,” Lorenz said, 
a Moorpark, California, native. “Knowing when I get homesick or 
anything, they know exactly what 
I’m going through. Having that support is very helpful.”
•   •   • 
In Gainesville, there’s no Sunset 
Cliffs, no Lakeside Rodeo, no Western Day parade. There’s no popsicles at practice, not to mention 
the absence of California Burritos. 
But there’s a small-town charm and tradition in Gainesville just like there is in Lakeside. That continuity 
from home made the transition to 
playing in Florida much easier. And now, Gourley has filled this place with memories.
She’s helped the Gators keep a 
61-10 record when she’s been on the mound since her freshman year, and phenomenal pitching efforts in both 2014 and 2015 postseason play 
propelled Florida to back-to-back 
national championships.
This season alone, she boasts an 
ERA of 0.77, the fourth-lowest in the country.
In short, Gourley’s commanding 
pitching has continued a UF softball winning tradition.
“I love to just see her happiness 
on the field and when she’s in the game,” Porter said. “I can genuinely feel it, even though I’m not there.”
Her consistent play over the past 
four years has earned her a spot on the USA women’s national team, as well as a nomination to the final list of the Senior CLASS Awards, given to the best senior student-athlete among 10 different NCAA sports. 
“I’m just happy that I’ve 
impacted the program as a player and a person to where I can leave a mark on myself as a teammate, talent or not,” Gourley said.
But then there’s the memories 
made off the field. Her junior year, she and her teammates dog-piled onto the field of Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium when they learned 
they were SEC champions. It was a 
team that became her family away from home.
And to Gourley, they truly are 
family.
Instead of her mother taking 
her pitches, it became Munro and 
Wheaton.  
And in her final year as a Gator, Gourley believes the bond they 
have is rare.
“It’s natural and it doesn’t come 
easy…you can feel it,” Gourley said.
Her teammates brought that 
family love, and they kept softball fun. Gainesville brought with it a small-town vibe and southern tradition, both crucial components she was used to growing up. 
But before she heads home to 
the beach and burritos, she has one 
more goal in mind.
“Now that it’s my last year,” 
Gourley said, “I want to win (the 
national championship) again – why not one more?”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
Alligator File Photo
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 7-6 win against Auburn on 
April 5, 2014, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Alligator File Photo
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 2-0 win against Ole Miss on March 9, 2014, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
SOFTBALL,  from pg. 13Gourley is 61-10 in her career at Florida16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 16, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos and $4 Double Wells  
$3 Sangria, $3 Craft Cocktail of the 
Week,$3 Craft Beer of the Week, 
and $5 Mac N’ CheeseTUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University Avenue36 and were in command for most 
of the outings. Against ranked opponents, Florida went 5-2.
Some of that has to do with the 
play of UF's freshmen.
This season saw the rise of 
defender Cara Trombetta and midﬁ  elder Brianna Harris as starters and playmakers on the roster.
Trombetta led the Gators in 
caused turnovers with 27, the most ever by a freshman in program history, and 40 ground balls.
For Harris, the Arnold, Maryland, 
native was a reliable scoring threat for Florida all season. She ﬁ  nished seventh on the team in points with 19 goals and 11 assists.
Even attacker Madisyn Kittell 
received signiﬁ  cant playing time. In 15 games, she scored 12 goals and had four assists, good for eighth on the team in points behind Harris.
Another reason for Florida's 
success this season was the impact its seniors had on the team. Attacker 
Mollie Stevens led the Gators in 
goals (59) and attacker Sammi Burgess led in points (82), while defenders Caroline Fitzgerald and Taylor Bresnahan set the all-time marks at Florida for ground balls and caused turnovers, respectively. While Florida will be losing 
a talented senior class that led the team both in scoring and on defense, it still has some players ready to shoulder the load in the 2018 season. 
On attack, UF still has Lindsey 
Ronbeck, who ﬁ  nished the season with 53 goals, and Shayna Pirreca, who scored 50 goals.
At midﬁ  eld, the Gators will 
return all three of its starters in Allie Pavinelli, Sydney Pirreca and Harris. 
And on defense, Trombetta and 
Aniya Flanagan will anchor a Gators back line looking to ﬁ  ll the void left behind by Fitzgerald and Bresnahan.
Florida already has some established scorers returning next year, but it will also look towards a new signing class to step up, as well.
The Gators will see nine new 
faces on campus in the fall, which includes four selections to the Under Armour All-America game in midﬁ  elders Shannon Kavanagh and Eddy Shoop, attacker Grace Haus and defender Sabrina Cristodero.
“These young women are all very 
special and will make an immediate impact on our campus both on the lacrosse ﬁ  eld and off,” O’Leary said in a release in November. “Not only are they hard workers on the ﬁ  eld, but they are diligent students as well, and will be a great representation of our team and the University of Florida. I couldn’t be happier they are all Gators.”
Next season will be a test for 
Florida to see if it can continue to play at the same level without its anchors on both offense and defense.
But with the talent still on the 
team, not to mention the talent the team will be getting in 2018, the 
Gators will still be considered one 
of the top teams in women's college lacrosse.
 @DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
LACROSSE,  from pg 13Florida is bringing in nine freshmen for the 2018 season
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mollie Stevens (17) and Sammi Burgess (2) embrace during Florida's 15-8 win against Denver on 
March 25, 2017, at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
