We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 104 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
UF gymnast embracing 
energy
She’s putting a “little extra oomph” 
into her ﬂ  oor routine, pg. 16
Alachua to honor lynching victims
County commissioners are planning to install memorials, pg. 5
Rumors of local immigration raids unfounded
Ofﬁ  cials said the rumors are false, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
It was the start of a new year for Karan 
Khullar, one that was supposed to bring new beginnings, new friends and a slate of new experiences in a foreign land.
He had just turned 22 in December, and 
in January, he boarded a plane from India to the U.S., his eyes set on completing his undergraduate studies in computer science at UF.
Roughly 7,870 miles later, he stepped foot 
on American soil for the ﬁ  rst time.
“He loved this place,” said Nikhil Singh, a 
UF student who quickly befriended Khullar. 
“I never saw him sad.”
Less than two months later, Khullar will 
return to his hometown of Jammu, to a fam-
ily in mourning, one preparing to cremate their son.
On Saturday, Khullar had just ﬁ  nished watching a Bollywood movie, a reminder of his Indian culture, when he and some friends decided to go to Midtown.
He joked while standing near a bus stop 
outside Campus Club apartments. It was about 9:30 p.m., and a Later Gator F bus was on its way.
For his new friends, it would be the last 
time hearing Khullar’s voice and seeing his smile.
Moments later, a speeding white Hyundai 
barreled down Southwest 37th Boulevard, jumped a curb and struck Khullar, leaving 
him bloodied as he lay several feet away.The car’s driver, whose blood-alcohol 
content was nearly double the legal limit, 
didn’t check to see if he — or his two other friends in her way — had been injured, po-lice later said. She was later caught, and is facing charges of DUI with damage, causing a crash involving death and injury and man-slaughter.
Khullar died in the emergency room at 
UF Health Shands Hospital, leaving behind a younger brother, father and mother.
“He never did anything wrong to deserve 
this,” said Singh, 23, who had his feet run ‘He loved this place’: UF exchange student mourned
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Rapper Lil Yachty takes a selﬁ  e with a girl in the crowd of about 6,000. He made an impromptu visit to the crowd during the performance on Wednesday, exciting fans before he was escorted backstage by security. 
THE GATOR APPROACHED A 
COUPLE, ATE THEIR FOOD AND 
TOOK A CAMERA.
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two Valentine’s Day picnics were 
crashed Tuesday by an uninvited guest: an 
alligator with an appetite.
Tatiana Radulovic and her boyfriend, Chris Day, were eating a picnic dinner by the Baughman Center at Lake Alice on Tuesday when a 3-to-4-foot alligator began to approach at about 6:40 p.m. The pair, sitting near another couple, thought the al-ligator wouldn’t be an issue — until it went 
for their food.
They said they had seen the alligator 
in the water while they were eating, but 
Radulovic, 19, told Day not to worry.
“Those things can run faster than peo-
ple when they want to,” Day said. “You can’t mess around with them.”
Day said he listened to Radulovic, who 
was convinced the alligator wouldn’t dis-turb them unless they disturbed it.
“She’s been around gators more than I 
have, and I don’t know, she kind of as-
sured me that nothing would happen,” 
the 19-year-old UF biomedical engineering freshman said. “Which obviously is not how it happened.”
The alligator began to riﬂ  e through their 
bag and ate their chicken salad wraps. It also grabbed Radulovic’s camera, worth about $50, and dragged it into the lake. 
Both couples ran toward the sidewalk 
and away from the water, watching for about 20 minutes while the alligator sat by their picnic blanket. Radulovic said they 
called University Police, but left before an 
ofﬁ  cer arrived.
“That could have been so much worse,” 
said Radulovic, a UF statistics and market-Alligator decides to play third wheel during Valentine’s DayTHE CONCERT WAS 
STOPPED FOR ABOUT 15 
MINUTES. 
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
About 6,000 people, packed 
into the O’Connell Center on 
Wednesday night, were invited to rush the stage by Lil Yachty’s entourage — and then forced back into their seats.
Security and staff struggled to 
contain the charging students at the start of the Big Sean and Lil Yachty concert, hosted by Student Government Productions and the Black Student Union.
Big Sean was paid $130,000 to 
perform, and Lil Yachty was paid $30,000, according to Alligator ar-chives.
At about 8 p.m., as the night’s 
ﬁ  rst song began, DJ Oreo, who was on the stage with Lil Yachty, encouraged all “real Lil Yachty fans” to come to the front. Attendees immediately be-
gan jumping over barricades and rushed the stage. Eventually, the 
lights came on and the music was 
cut while security slowly forced 
attendees back into their seats as 
several booed.
About 15 minutes after the com-
motion, the show began again.
Emma Austin, 19, said she 
would have enjoyed the show more if she could have stayed near the stage after running from her seat.
“They said the show wouldn’t 
begin again until everybody left the ﬂ  oor,” the UF health science sophomore said. “Even though Lil Yachty asked us to come down. It 
was disappointing.”
Lil Yachty, wearing a sweat-
shirt with “mother f-----” printed 
on the front, continued to encour-age the crowd.
“I wanna see everybody in this 
motherf----- put their middle ﬁ  n-gers up in the air,” he shouted.Students rush stage during Lil Yachty, Big Sean concertSEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4
SEE ALLIGATOR,  PAGE 4SEE CONCERT,  PAGE 4A drunken driver killed himSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 104
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  68° LOW  37°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
iSTEAM Speaker Series 
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
UF engineering graduate and 
contestant on “MythBusters: The Search,” Tracy Fanara, who will speak at the Marston Science 
Library today at 2 p.m. in Room 
L136. Fanara, a scientist at the 
Mote Marine Laboratory, will speak about her “MythBusters” 
experience, research on Florida 
beaches and waterways and storm-chasing.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealthIsabel Moreira will explore the relationship between wealth, almsgiving and perceptions of the afterlife in Europe between the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take place today at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more information, email humanities-center@ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club offers free lessons and dances ev-ery Monday and Friday night. On Friday nights, the organization hosts two levels of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organiza-tion hosts two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more information, find the Florida Swing Dancing Club on Facebook.
#NotAccommodating T-shirt cam-
paignThe #NotAccommodating cam-paign is a visual protest to the changes marginalized people make to their identities in order to fit into mainstream society. Through this campaign, they hope to shed light on the commu-nity’s stories and how they should rise above it. The first event of the series, #NotAccommodating T-shirt Campaign, will be Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion Queerness and Disability is the second installment of the LGBTQ Affairs’ semester-long lunch se-ries. They will look to examine 
and understand the intersection 
of LGBTQ+ identities and dis-
abilities, and they will explore the 
overlap and similarity of oppres-sions related to different facets 
of these intersectional identities. 
This event is open to all people, 
whether you do or do not identify 
as LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will take place in the LGBTQ Affairs 
space in the Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz 
Union on Feb. 24 from noon to 1 p.m.
An evening of Finnish folk music 
The Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music” on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the 
Headquarters Library, located at 
401 E. University Ave. The per-
forming and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English and their native language, Finnish. This free musical program will be in Meeting Room A. For more information about library pro-grams, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Solutions seminar featuring Chris KochCanadian farmer Chris Koch was born with no arms and legs, yet despite the challenges he faces, he chooses to take life in stride and make the best of every situation with which he is presented. He has not let limita-tions and obstacles stand in the way of achieving his goals. Chris will speak March 13 at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at 6 p.m. and again on March 14 at 9 a.m. in the Straughn Center. UF stu-dents and the greater Gainesville community are welcome to at-tend either session. Learn more and register for this free event at cals.ufl.edu.
‘Words on Canvas’ Harn writing 
competition Write yourself into the art mu-seum. “Words on Canvas” is a poetry and prose writing com-petition at the Harn Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The dead-line to enter is March 17.STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3 How can you practice affirma-
tive consent? Learn some strat-
egies from Sexual Trauma/ 
Interpersonal Violence Education 
during GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. 
Check it out at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.
edu/ or contact Rita Lawrence at 
RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-
4452 for more information and to request materials.
On the Edge: What Future for the 
African Sahel?Join us for the 2017 Gwendolen M. Carter Conference in African 
Studies organized by the UF 
Sahel Research Group on Feb. 23 
through Feb. 25, 2017. All panels will be held in the Reitz Union except for the first keynote lec-
ture and the opening reception, 
which will be held at the Harn 
Museum of Art (transportation to museum will be provided). The Sahelian region of West Africa is at an important crossroads, un-der multiple pressures of diverse kinds — environmental, politi-cal, demographic, security and economic — and marked by rap-idly changing social and cultural dynamics. This interdisciplinary conference will bring together scholars from Africa, Europe and North America to offer perspec-tives on key issues shaping the region. The conference is free and open to the public, but advanced registration is kindly requested. For more information, visit sahel-research.africa.ufl.edu.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
SAYING GOODBYE
Mary Kay Schneider Carodine, the assistant vice president for Student Affairs, awards Vee Byrd, the 
former director of Black Affairs, a Years of Service award for her commitment to UF over the past four years. Students and faculty shared words of appreciation for her time at UF on Wednesday.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After more than 680 undocu-
mented immigrants were arrested 
across the country last week, rumors of raids in Gainesville have circulat-ed through the city.
But they aren’t true, according 
to  the central and northern Florida public affairs ofﬁ  cer for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforce-ment, or ICE. 
“ICE has not conducted any 
law enforcement actions in the Gainesville area,” Spicer wrote in an 
email.
Reuters reported on the nation-
wide raids Feb. 13.
The rumors of similar events in 
Gainesville, which have raised con-
cern among residents, allege ICE of-ﬁ  cials raided two construction sites in the city and picked up undocu-mented workers there. On Monday, about 24 people 
gathered at the Emmanuel Men-nonite Church, located at 1236 NW 
18th Ave., to discuss what could be 
done to help immigrants who they believed had been arrested. 
Richard MacMaster, the group’s 
coordinator, said he heard from a Gainesville Sun reporter that undoc-umented workers were picked up earlier in the day from at least two construction sites on Southwest 13th 
Street, one belonging to Trimark 
Properties and the other to UF Health Shands Hospital.
“We worked hard to make 
Gainesville a Welcoming City, and (the raids) run counter to the spirit of the community.”
Rossana Passaniti, a Shands 
spokesperson said she has listened 
as rumors circulated, but to her 
knowledge, no ICE ofﬁ  cials have come to the site. 
“I have no idea how that rumor 
got started,” she said.ICE: Rumors of raids in 
Gainesville unfounded4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
MORE THAN 200 STUDENTS 
OFFERED IDEAS.
By Romy Ellenbogen and Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writers
Impact Party plans to release its plat-
form today after gathering ideas from more 
than 200 students Thursday and Friday.
Party members stood outside the Reitz 
Union for five hours on both days and en-
couraged students to write ideas about im-
proving UF on a chalkboard. The platform, which the party plans to release today, will include some of these ideas, Impact spokesperson Janae Moodie said. 
“Our platform is a contract to the Stu-
dent Body,” Moodie said. “Our ideas need to come straight from the source, which is the students.”
She said students talked about safety 
initiatives, like adding more crosswalks, and requested healthier on-campus food options.
Impact talked to students about the par-
ty and encouraged them to vote in front of the Reitz and on Turlington Plaza from Tuesday to Thursday, Moodie said. 
Akash Beekhoo, 21, said an Impact 
member asked him if he plans to vote in the Spring election. Beekhoo said he might if he was in the area. 
While speaking with the Impact mem-
ber, he learned Impact’s executive ticket 
was running unopposed. 
“He said he wanted to represent us,” 
the UF mechanical engineering junior said. 
“I told him he’s the only one I know right now — I don’t know anyone else.”Progress Party, which has seven Student 
Senate candidates, hasn’t started asking for input on its platform, Progress Vice Presi-dent Charlie Ras said. Members plan to focus on implementing online voting and giving additional funding to student orga-
nizations.
Rash said Progress plans to encourage 
students to write ideas on a large sheet of 
paper in front of the Reitz this weekend through election days.
“If they saw us six days before the elec-
tion, they might not remember us because of our small size,” Rash said. “We don’t have the manpower like Impact.”
@paigexfry
@romyellenbogen
pfry@alligator.org
rellenbogen@alligator.org Impact Party to release campaign platform 
ANYTHING FROM HEAVY 
TRAFFIC TO POWER OUTAGES 
CAN BE REPORTED.
By Isabella Arjomand
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County launched a smartphone 
app that could make reporting problems to 
the county easier. The app, called Alachua County Con-
nects, allows citizens to report community problems like heavy traffic, power outages and road conditions in a convenient way, project leader Joel Laguerre said.
The official launch was Feb. 14, but 
city officials were able to explore the app before then, he said. Planning for the app took nine months and cost the city about $12,000.
He said the cost may change, possibly increasing, in the future if the city decides to add new features. 
As part of the app, developed by the 
company SeeClickFix, the city compiles information from city departments nearby and also shows user reports made by oth-
ers, Laguerre said.
It gives residents a new way to commu-
nicate with the county, Laguerre said.
Nedi Ferekides, 18, said because of con-
struction and bad traffic in Gainesville, she thinks the app could be helpful. 
“Traffic gets pretty bad around here,” 
the UF psychology freshman said. “It 
would be helpful to know things like that in advance.”
Laguerre said the app is a perfect way to 
stay connected with the city. 
“The actual gem of the service is that 
the communication is coming from multi-ple sources, and citizens can choose which way is more convenient for them,” he said.  County creates app for residents to report problems
over during the incident.
For Khullar, visiting Gainesville was supposed to 
further his career. In India, U.S. trips are a rite of pas-
sage. The choice to attend UF was a matter of coinci-dence, as it was the only foreign-exchange program offered at his university in India, JayPee University of Information Technology, his younger brother, Va-run Khullar, said.
The prospects of a new country and a new culture 
intrigued him. During his time in The Swamp, after playing cricket in high school and college, he devel-oped an interest in American football.
“He was very excited,” the 20-year-old said.With just a semester left before his undergradu-ate studies would be complete, Khullar already had three job offers and was likely going to start at Ernst & Young, a technology company, in June.
“He was very ambitious,” Varun Khullar said. 
“His professors used to love him.”
Despite living here for just over a month, he made 
dozens of friends and excelled in his classes. 
He was remembered as a religious, dutiful friend 
— one who would wake at 6 a.m. every day for morning prayers.
Khullar’s family plans to bring him back to India 
to be cremated, Varun Khullar said.
• • •
At about 1 p.m. Saturday, Sufal Mahajan spoke to 
his best friend of four years for the last time.
Weekly phone calls had become customary be-
tween the two. Even on opposite ends of the world, nothing changed.
Khullar told Mahajan, a 21-year-old living in In-
dia, of his Bollywood film and his plans to go out on the town.
The following morning, he learned his friend was 
gone. Hearing the news from a friend, his world shat-tered. He was in disbelief.
“Every week he used to call me, and it’s hard to 
accept he won’t call me again,” he said.
He wasn’t alone.“Our whole college went numb after hearing the 
news,” Mahajan said. “We all gathered, and we couldn’t trust what had happened.”
Mahajan said although Khullar was studious, he 
cared about others. He would put his books down to help someone in need.
He remembers one night when he fell and bruised 
his shoulder. It was about midnight, but Khullar took the time to sit with him and apply an ointment to heal the injury.
“He was a very caring person,” he said. “He was 
like an older brother to all of us.”
   @merylkornfield
	 	 mkornfield@alligator.org 	EPILOGUE,  from pg. 1Khullar will be cremated in India
Courtesy to the Alligator
Karan Khullar, a UF exchange student from India, was killed on Saturday after a drunken driver struck him at a bus stop, police said.
SPRING SG ELECTION DATES:
Feb. 21 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.Feb. 22 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
LOCATIONS:
• Broward Hall library 
• Health Science Center C2-041C 
• Heavener, Room 202 
• Jennings first-floor library 
• Bruton-Geer Hall, side hallways by 
the cafeteria 
• Marston Science Library main room 
• Murphree Area Commons Conference, Room 106 
• Norman Hall Education Library 
• Reitz Union computer lab 
• Southwest Recreation Center, cafe near entrance on left side 
• Springs Area Office, Room C202
During his song “Minnesota,” 
he ran into the stands, signing 
autographs and taking selfies for about five minutes before police officers escorted him back to the stage with the arena’s house lights on again.
Big Sean began performing at 
about 9:15 p.m., about 20 minutes after Lil Yachty left the stage. Big Sean opened with “Moves,” a sin-gle off his latest album.
Banee Louis, 18, said she was 
excited to hear that Big Sean, who she calls her “husband,” was com-ing to UF. 
She likes that his songs have 
meaning, she said. Although she didn’t think the seats she had for the concert were good, she was still excited to finally see the per-former.
Louis said she feels a connec-
tion to his song “Bigger Than Me,” which is about pressures to make his family and hometown proud.
“I feel like it kind of relates to 
me, being here at UF,” the UF psy-chology freshman said.
Camya Robinson, 18, was sur-
prised when she found out Big Sean would be coming to campus. 
“You know how some people, 
they rap and they’re not really 
talking about anything, they’re 
just making words rhyme?” the UF 
wildlife ecology and conservation freshman said. “I feel like Big Sean has a story to tell with his music.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org CONCERT,  from pg. 1The concert continued
ing freshman. “At first I was re-
ally upset about the camera until I realized that could have gone in a totally worse direction.”
In November 2015, a UF stu-
dent captured a video of an al-ligator eating a sandwich from another’s picnic lunch near Lake Alice, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
Kent Vliet, a UF biology lab 
coordinator who has studied al-ligators and crocodiles for more than 30 years, said alligators rarely provoke people but might if they’ve been fed before and learned that behavior. 
Vliet said he has heard reports 
of a small alligator by the Baugh-man Center approaching people with food.
“It may just be a single indi-
vidual,” Vliet said. “Sooner or later, he’s probably going to get killed, if he keeps this up.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org ALLIGATOR,  from pg. 1This has happened beforeTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sophia Carballo 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Three civil rights activists visited UF on 
Wednesday, telling a small crowd of about 25 
a story of how a movement is rising up against systemic racism in Brazil.
The visitors, three black women who trav-
eled from their South American home country, spoke of underrepresentation in Brazilian uni-versities.
Ana Luiza Mahin, a Cuban studies scholar 
attending the Federal University Fluminese in Rio De Janerio, put the issue into numbers.
Just 6 percent of Brazil’s university students 
are black, she said. 
But change is happening, she said. Some are 
organizing a movement called Black Occupa-tion, a free space to discuss racism, sexuality and class. 
“All over the country we are organizing 
ourselves and we are ﬁ  ghting against racism in universities in Brazil,” Mahin said. 
 The UF Center for Latin American Stud-
ies hosted Mahin and her fellow activists, An-nie Gonzaga Lorde and Jessica Ipolito, at UF’s Ulster Hall. Tanya Saunders, a professor at the center, said having the activists on campus was 
important because they’re key ﬁ  gures in Bra-
zil’s social movements.
Ipolito — an Afro-Latin American woman 
and the author of the popular blog about beau-ty, racism and sexuality — said she was one of the ﬁ  rst people in Brazil to speak openly on the internet about her struggles.
“I’m black, lesbian, fat and a writer,” the 
25-year-old said as she introduced herself.
Lorde, 30, described herself as a black, les-
bian activist, artist and mother. She grew up in a black slum in Brazil and said she recalls fre-quent police brutality.
“It is in this context that I started drawing,” 
Lorde said. “It was an expression of my reality.”
Stephanie Brook, a 20-year-old UF business 
sophomore, said she attended the event be-cause after living in Brazil for eight years, she 
was aware of the country’s racism but thought 
it wasn’t as bad as in the U.S. 
“This presentation really opened my eyes 
to a side of racism in Brazil that I haven’t re-ally experienced, and it made me sad to think that black students are struggling so much in a country that I hold so close to my heart,” she said. By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Decades after their hangings, 19 lynching 
victims will soon be honored with memorials throughout Alachua County.
County commissioners hope to move forward 
with a plan after unanimously agreeing to honor 
the victims, who had been killed in the county 
as far back as 1891. The most notorious of them was the 1916 killing of eight in Newberry. 
At least one of the victims was white, al-
though the victims of lynchings were typically black.
The goal is to place memorials close to an 
estimated location of where lynchings have occurred, said Robert “Hutch” Hutchinson, a 
county commissioner.
“We can’t allow our history to escape us,” 
Hutchinson said. 
Although an ofﬁ  cial plan is still being creat-
ed, one idea is to place ﬁ  xed markers with web-
site links that lead to a story of the person’s life, Hutchinson said. 
The project’s estimated cost is between 
$20,000 and $30,000, Hutchinson said. He hopes 
the money will come from private sources.The Alachua County Historical Commission 
will meet March 13 to discuss plans about the 
memorial, said Kathleen Pagan, a liaison for the 
historical commission. It will research the names 
of those who were killed before the project can be ofﬁ  cially recommended, Pagan said.
Patricia Hilliard-Nunn, an adjunct professor 
with the UF African American Studies program, has done extensive research on the 1916 New-berry lynching.
Florida has the highest number of recorded 
lynchings, per capita, throughout the history of 
the U.S., Hilliard-Nunn said. 
“When we establish memorials, it is critical 
to address their history and their personal story 
as well,” Hilliard-Nunn said. “It helps to educate people about what happened.”
While memorializing these events is impor-
tant, it’s also necessary to commemorate the African-American culture that helped to build Alachua County, Hilliard-Nunn said.
“I think it’s important that we do something 
that gives a holistic perspective on the lives of African-Americans,” she said. “If you don’t re-member the past, you’re doomed to repeat it.” 
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.orgBrazilian activists discuss 
racism in their home country Alachua to honor 19 victims of lynchings with memorials
By Mollee Jakubisin 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers will launch seeds 
into space to prepare for the future 
of space travel and Earth’s changing 
environment Friday.
The researchers will be conduct-
ing the ﬁ  rst experiment on plants’ epigenetics, or how the environment in space modiﬁ  es plants’ DNA, said Collin LeFrois, a second-year UF 
doctoral student working with the 
researchers. Studying plants in space will help researchers understand how they grow while Earth’s envi-ronment changes. 
“The important thing is that this is kind of the ﬁ  rst experiment of its kind,” LeFrois said. “No one has re-ally looked at epigenetics in space-
ﬂ  ight in any system.” 
Once the seeds of the arabidopsis, 
a plant in the mustard family, reach 
the International Space Station, as-tronauts will plant them in a growth hardware machine and take photos of their growth for 11 days. Then, the plants will return to Earth to be studied at the UF Space Plants Lab, 
said Anna-Lisa Paul, the co-principal 
investigator with the lab. 
UF researchers have sent plants 
into space six other times, Paul said.
Studying plants reactions to space 
is important because as carbon diox-ide levels and pollutants increase on Earth, it becomes more stressful for plants to grow, she said. 
Paul said she knows humans 
aren’t going to be on Earth forever. 
“Even if it means short explora-
tion trips to Mars or to the moon, we are going to need to bring plants with us. It’s what we do,” she said.
UF researchers to send plants to the International Space Station  The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
UF is one of the nation’s top research universities
Today, I’m in Boston with UF alumni 
celebrating the induction of ﬁ  ve UF fac-ulty members as fellows of the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of 
Science. The AAAS is the world’s larg-
est general scientiﬁ  c society, and this week’s meeting has 10,000 attendees. UF now has 51 
AAAS fellows, an indicator of our excellence 
in science and engineering.
As I attend this gathering and prepare for 
next week’s National Science Board meeting in Washington, D.C., I am struck by our nation’s good 
fortune in having great research universities, both pub-
lic and private. Within the U.S., there are more than 4,600 colleges and universities; however, only 300 are research (doctoral) universities, categorized by the 
Carnegie Classiﬁ  cation into moderate, higher and high-
est research.
UF is in the highest research category.Our nation’s greatest research universities are ex-
pensive. They require annual revenues in the multiple 
billions of dollars to fund the world’s very best schol-
ars, researchers, educators, graduate assistants, staff, libraries, laboratories, infrastructure and programs. This money comes from a variety of sources, including 
federal and state governments, annual philanthropy, 
endowment and tuition.
However, without the investment in these great re-
search universities, our society, economy and nation would be impoverished. There would be no hope of 
solving humanity’s greatest challenges, including pro-
viding all the world’s people with health, food, water, shelter, energy, education and a sustainable environ-ment. Without our nation’s great research universities, 
our culture, economy and lives would dim.
Earlier this week, I spoke to the Economic Club of Florida about the economic impact of re-
search universities. I said that as of Monday, Apple’s market value was $700 billion. The 
No. 2 company was Google parent Alphabet 
Inc. The iPhone accounts for two-thirds of Apple’s sales and three-quarters of its oper-ating proﬁ  t. Since the iPhone’s ﬁ  rst release 
10 years ago, it has had nearly $1 trillion in 
sales.
Without research universities, the iPhone 
and all other smartphones would not exist. A 
smartphone’s hardware consists of six essential com-
ponents, all invented by university researchers: touch-
screen, central processing unit, multi-core processors, random access memory, GPS and battery. For example, John Atanasoff, an electrical engineering graduate from 
UF, is one of the university researchers credited with 
inventing the CPU.    
At UF, we are one of the nation’s leading universi-
ties in making discoveries and inventions that help to propel the economy. Last year, private companies that 
licensed UF technologies pumped nearly $2.3 billion 
into the state’s economy, according to our most recent economic impact study.
UF is indeed one of the nation’s great research uni-
versities. However, our aspirations are higher. Our plan is to be not just one of the greatest, but the very best. 
UF has a plan to reach the top in providing an ed-
ucation for students, in research and scholarship that changes the world, and in engaging with the public 
across the state and around the globe. We have estab-
lished a set of metrics and a timeline for success. Florid-ians deserve a university that is truly the greatest.
It is great to be a Florida Gator.Kent Fuchs is the UF president. His column appears 
monthly.The curse 
of living in 
‘interesting times’
There’s an old quote — attributed to Chinese philoso-phers for some reason, even though the exact ori-gins are dubious — that wishes to the listener, “May 
you live in interesting times.” This wish is called the 
“Chinese curse.” Now, at ﬁ  rst that might seem a little 
odd. Don’t we want to live in interesting times? But it doesn’t take much reﬂ  ection to get what the quote actually implies.
Think back to the most recent history class you had. The 
parts that were interesting weren’t times of prosperity and peace. No, most people will say their favorite eras to study are wars, times of political discontent, times of change, rev-olution or rebellion. And even if you do prefer a time of 
prosperity and wellness, it’s usually the more “interesting” 
undertones that are studied — the questioning of society and values that occurs in most interwar periods, for instance, or the social changes that occur.
Interesting times are interesting in retrospect. Maybe growing up, we wished for interesting times. “I 
Wish I Was a Punk Rocker (With Flowers in my Hair),” a 2005 song by Scottish singer Sandi Thom, expresses this sentiment. The singer reﬂ  ects about how the modern world 
“doesn’t care” and how she wishes that she lived when “rev-
olution was in the air.” And admittedly, most of us prob-ably looked at our history books and wished that we could live during the Vietnam War protests, or during the 1920s 
or maybe even during the world wars. We told our parents 
this, perhaps, and they patted us on the back telling us we shouldn’t wish for war or rebellion and just be thankful that we were living in stable times.
Well, looks like those wishes — that curse — came true.
No matter what end of the political spectrum you come 
from, you cannot deny that these are “interesting times.” 
There were two sides during the 1970s, if you recall. At least two sides in every war, every rebellion. History decides 
the winners. Who “wins,” who turns out to be the “good” 
guys or the “bad” guys, which events will be signiﬁ  cant or which ones we will remember — that’ll all come later. We’ll see it in our children’s history books. We will remember. They might point at controversial executive statements and 
marches on Washington, D.C., at stirrings of unrest in Eu-
rope, the Middle East and Asia, at dissent, at rebellion and ask us, “Were you there? What was it like?”
And to this, our dear readers, we ask you to think, we ask 
you to reﬂ  ect, we ask you to have something you are proud of about this “interesting time” to tell your children. Look at how these events played out in the past — look at who we remember fondly, who we don’t, what we tell ourselves we should learn from and what we tell ourselves to stay away 
from. As a whole, society fails to learn from history time 
and time again, but as an individual, you can. You have the power to look back and decide on which side of history you want to fall. 
These our interesting times, dear readers, but it’s up to 
you to decide how you remember them.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Beer yoga to take over ooZoo rooftop
Saturday’s event will kick off a class series, pg. 10First Magnitude celebrates local soul scene 
The brewery will host a festival Saturday, pg. 9By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Tom Miller is a familiar name 
to many around Gainesville, to 
say the least. The artist of many 
talents has been performing in the 
city for longer than many of its students have been alive, boast-ing the longest-running open-mic 
show in the country, “The Tom 
Miller Show.”
“The Tom Miller Show” has 
been running under a multitude of names since 1985. The most 
current installment of the show, 
“The Reverend Angel Dust’s Tab-ernacle Of Hedonism,” takes place every Monday night at Maude’s 
Side Car Bar. 
“I speciﬁ  cally picked the worst 
night of the week at the worst 
time so people actually have to sacriﬁ  ce if they want to come to 
it,” Miller said. 
This type of decision is some-
thing characteristic of Miller, who 
isn’t afraid to step outside the box 
with his events.  
He said the Tabernacle show 
isn’t designed to please every-
body, as the performers aren’t afraid of any topic. Guests may 
love the show one week but will 
choose to leave mid-performance the next.  
“It’s incredibly wacky, weird, 
wonderful and sometimes it’s been epochal,” he said. “You’ve never seen anything like it.” 
Inspired by the current politi-
cal climate and with the motiva-
tion for Gainesville residents to embrace the arts, Miller has ex-
panded his talents to hosting a 
weekly show called “Tom Miller’s 
Hardback Whoopee-Do!,” which will take place every Wednesday night at the Hardback Cafe. The free show made its debut last 
night. 
The open-mic event will be 
the opposite of the Tabernacle, as 
it will be very structured, Miller 
said. Artists of all kinds are in-
vited to perform and will be giv-en the opportunity to play three songs or entertain for 10 minutes. Sign-ups are ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-serve 
and open at 9 p.m., with the show 
running until about midnight. 
“The real focus of the show 
is going to be on music, and the 
uber focus of the show is going to 
be originality,” he said. 
Any artist’s work must be 
original, Miller said. Covers aren’t allowed unless the artist is doing 
something extreme with them. 
“Tom Miller’s Hardback 
Whoopee-Do!” will also come 
with a featured performer, Miller 
said. Last night’s show featured 
Michael O’Meara, a local musician who has played shows around the nation.
Although he was inspired 
by the political climate, Miller doesn’t want the show to be po-litical, he said. He wants people around Gainesville to embrace the 
arts and free speech while work-
ing through the tense atmosphere the country is currently in. 
“Now is the time that art and 
music and comedy and theater be-come essential to our survival as a species,” he said. “I’m not even 
fooling around when I say that. 
Art and music is where we get the deepest messages in our world.” 
The show’s location is sig-
niﬁ  cant, with the Hardback Cafe 
being one of the only venues for 
smaller local acts to perform.  
Alan Bushnell, the owner of 
the Hardback Cafe, originally ran 
the venue at a location downtown 
from 1988 to 1998. During the 90s, the Hardback Cafe fostered many of Gainesville’s notable bands, in-cluding Less Than Jake and Hot 
Water Music, and musician River 
Phoenix, Bushnell said.
Bushnell sold the Hardback 
Cafe in 1998 before going to law 
school, but the venue closed 
shortly after. Come 2015, he re-alized that Gainesville musicians needed a place to play, especially after his daughter Julia joined a 
band. 
Bushnell now leases a new 
space for the Hardback Cafe, lo-
cated at 211 W. University Ave. 
This venue has been open for a 
little over a year and is giving lo-cal musicians a place to display their originality once again. 
“The philosophy is the same,” 
Bushnell said. “I love musicians and working with them.” 
Bushnell approached Miller 
about hosting the show because 
he’s such a great master of cer-
emonies, he said. The two have been friends for decades, working on and off together to put on per-formances for Gainesville. As for “Tom Miller’s Hardback 
Whoopee-Do!,” Bushnell hopes to see the show revitalize an aspect of Gainesville that has changed over the years: the music scene. 
“I’d like to see the music scene 
be appreciated by a wider selec-tion of students,” he said. “It’s re-ally something that Gainesville’s amazing for.” 
Miller also said he hopes the 
show will be fun for everyone and that it will showcase original 
ideas that deserve a voice. 
“I’m very happy in my little 
world where I’m not making a 
million bucks putting on shows, 
but I’m setting the boundar-
ies for people to play and enjoy themselves,” he said. “Somebody needs to be on the fringe and not doing what’s expected. Somebody 
needs to be saying something im-
portant.” GNV performance artist to host new open-mic event
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
T om Miller, a local performance artist, has the longest-
running open-mic show in the country. He kicked off a new open-mic night yesterday at the Hardback Cafe. 
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
• Nick looks contemplatively out 
onto a body of water
• Someone cries
• Vanessa expresses some concern 
over her relationship with Nick
• Nick and his date act very excited 
to see a concert for a band no 
one’s ever heard of 
Take a shot when…
• Nick is somehow still not sure this 
“journey” will work out
• Corrine is eating • Chris Harrison has to come in and 
keep Nick from going AWOL
• A rose ceremony or cocktail party is 
cancelled
Finish your drink when…
• You start rooting for Corinne at 
some point because the other 
three are too good for him
• A girl leaves on her own or a girl 
he’s already eliminated comes 
back
• You wonder how much hair 
product Nick uses (it must be a lot)
• You desperately want Nick to meet 
Rachel’s federal judge fatherWhat a ride we are on for 
this season with Bachelor Nick Viall. What started out with some very dull episodes, mi-nus, of course, villain Corinne Olympios and her nanny Raquel, has suddenly picked up speed in the last few weeks. Nick, on his fourth appearance with the franchise, is desperate to ﬁ  nd love and, yet, kicks off any girl who professes her love for him. He spends a lot of time crying, and I spend a lot of time wondering if this 36-year-old as-piring model is actually a catch. Now that we’re down to the ﬁ  -nal four and already know Ra-chel Lindsay is our next Bach-elorette, you may need a few drinks to get you through the remaining episodes, so here’s the drinking game you’ve been waiting for all season long. 
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
This Saturday, Gainesville’s own 
Umoja Orchestra will be reuniting af-
ter a seven-year hiatus to play at The 
Wooly downtown. 
The orchestra will be joined by 
Gainesville psych-rock quartet Morn-
ingbell for the show.
The Umoja Orchestra blends ele-
ments of afrobeat, jazz, funk, salsa, merengue and several other multicul-tural musical styles. 
Known for energetic performances 
and instrumentals based on encour-aging audiences to dance, the Umoja Orchestra is well-known for engaging attendees of their shows. 
“We make high-energy music with 
tons of brass and percussion,” said Scott Bihorel, the orchestra’s conga player. “Our audience should expect to be irresistibly moved to dance un-
til they collapse, even if they’ve never danced before.”
The Umoja Orchestra started in 
2005, when several members met at 
UF’s School of Music. 
Playing together in Jennings Hall in 
their freshman year, the original mem-bers met with the help of academic 
involvement, as well as Gainesville’s 
diverse music scene. 
“Umoja was always a rotating cast 
of whatever colorful Gainesville char-
acters we could ﬁ  nd,” said David Bo-
renstein, the orchestra’s saxophone player. “The band and Gainesville have a mutually beneﬁ  cial relation-ship. I like to think we make each 
other weirder.” 
Although Saturday will be the ﬁ  rst 
time in several years that the Umoja 
Orchestra has played together, they 
had a busy and successful run for their 
active years. 
Having gone on three national 
tours under the name of the Umoja Orchestra, the band has garnered a lot of attention for its exciting stage shows. The group, whose name ‘Umo-
ja’ comes from the Swahili word for 
“unity,” according to its Facebook page, has traveled up and down the east coast, as well as performing as far as Texas.
“We pack the stage with upwards 
of 20 people and I like to think we put on a pretty good party,” Borenstein said.  
Morningbell, who will be shar-
ing the stage with Umoja Orchestra, formed in Gainesville and has played at Bonnaroo, according to the event’s Facebook page. Their performance 
will include a light show.
The show starts at 9 p.m. and 
should run until about 1 a.m. Advance 
tickets for the show can be purchased 
at showclix.com, Hear Again Records or Arrows Aim for $8. 
Entry to the show will cost $10 the 
night of the event and is only for those 18 and over. GNV multicultural group stages reunion
MUSIC
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
First Magnitude Brewing Compa-
ny is celebrating soul with the three 
B’s — beer, blues and barbecue. 
The brewery, located at 1220 
SE Veitch St., is hosting a soul mu-
sic festival Saturday, featuring the 
bands Little Jake & The Soul Search-ers and 21Blue. 
The event starts at 4 p.m., with 
Little Jake & The Soul Searchers playing the ﬁ  rst of alternating hour-long sets until 11 p.m. 
“Because it’s such a long event, 
we wanted to give people who may 
have had plans through the day an 
opportunity to come by and see both,” said Lane Abraben, the event coordinator at the brewery. 
The Mojo Hogtown Bar-B-Que 
food truck will be serving soul food at the event. 
Little Jake & The Soul Searchers 
have performed at First Magnitude 
before, but it will be 21Blue’s ﬁ  rst 
time playing at this venue. 
Little Jake & The Soul Searchers 
consists of nine members, including Little Jake Mitchell on vocals, Tran Whitley on keyboards, Charles Hen-ry and Levi Grifﬁ  n Jr. on guitar, Al-
len McCollum on bass, Hal Saylor on 
drums, Charlie Blade on saxophone, Doug Meyers on trumpet, Brian Ste-vens on trombone and Kenny Eu-nice as the master of ceremonies.
Grifﬁ  n Jr. is the band’s newest 
member. Saturday’s show will be the ﬁ  rst time they play  in Gainesville with their new second guitar player.
Blade said one of his personal fa-
vorite songs of theirs to perform is “Have Faith.” He describes it as “just a really powerful, soulful song.”
21Blue band members are: 
Longineu Parsons on trumpet, vo-cals, ﬂ  ugelhorn, ﬂ  ute and recorder; Robert Grifﬁ  n on keyboard and trombone; Longineu Parsons III on drums; Chris Delorean Fullington on bass; and Ted Shumate on guitar. 
Parsons III previously played 
drums for the punk band Yellow-card, known for its 2003 hit song “Ocean Avenue.”  
21Blue combines the power of 
rock and the soulfulness of blues with the funk of rhythm and blues, Shumate said. “To lock into that groove and see 
an entire audience experiencing that power and energy together is exhila-
rating and very spiritually ﬁ  lling,” 
Shumate said. 
Each band noted admiration for 
the other. Shumate looks forward to the high-energy performances from both groups.
“Gainesville itself has a very spe-
cial energy that is conducive to the creative spirit,” Shumate said. “It is 
fun to tap into that.”
This will be the second soul fes-
tival First Magnitude has held. The 
ﬁ  rst one was in August with Little Jake & The Soul Searchers and Gainesville-native band The Savants of Soul. 
“We had a wonderful turnout last 
time and hoping for the same this 
time around,” Blade said. “Everyone 
just had a ball, and seven solid hours of rhythm and blues music.”
The event is open to all ages. 
There is a $10 cash-only entry fee per person, which gives all-day ac-cess to the beer garden. Admission is free for children 12 and younger. First Magnitude Brewing celebrates local soul-music scene
Courtesy to the Alligator
First Magnitude Brewing Company’s festival will feature music from Little Jake & The Soul 
Searchers and 21Blue. Tickets are $10 for all-day access to the beer garden, starting at 4 p.m.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Indie pop-punk band Lemuria’s debut 
album, “Get Better,” may be 10 years old, 
but it’s the band’s use of gut-wrenchingly 
honest lyrics to combat themes of hope 
and loss that make the album stand the test of time. 
Lemuria will be playing at Loosey’s on 
Feb. 24 as part of its Get Better 10-Year Anniversary Tour. Gainesville fans will be able to hear the entirety of the album, as well as Philly indie pop-punk band Cayet-ana and Mikey Erg, of the band The Ergs!
Randy Reddell, a promoter for Loosey’s 
who helped set up the concert, recom-mends fans arrive early if they haven’t yet bought a ticket due to the show’s high de-
mand. 
“Concert-goers should just expect a re-
ally fun, positive, welcoming vibe from the 
venue and bands,” Reddell said. “It should be pretty packed with lots of sweaty sing-
ing and dancing.”
New Jersey native Mikey Erg, real name 
Mike Yannich, is an established punk-rocker whose resume includes a lengthy 
list of inﬂ  uential bands and artists that he 
has collaborated with, including The Ergs!, 
The Dopamines, Dirt Bike Annie, The LLC and Gainesville local Laura Jane Grace from Against Me!
“Laura got in touch with me and said we 
should hang out when I came through her town on tour; she then picked me up and immediately played me a couple of songs, and I played along on her daughter’s drum 
kit,” Erg said. “We ended up demoing four 
songs, a couple of which ultimately ended up on ‘Transgender Dysphoria Blues.’”
Erg said his old band, The Ergs!, had 
toured with Lemuria 10 years ago when 
“Get Better” had just been released and 
the members in Cayetana used to book Le-muria’s shows, so it was the component of playing with friends that has made this 
tour so enjoyable. 
“This tour was rad because we all met 
up on day one and hugged each other and 
said, ‘Let’s have an adventure’,” Erg said. “It really was like meeting up with family 
to go on a road trip.”
Erg’s set will include songs from his recent solo album, “Tentative Decisions,” 
which consists of 11 songs that Erg said 
contain the general theme of reﬂ  ection and 
looking back at past experiences in his life. 
“The reaction has been really incred-
ible, most shows have been packed and the audiences have been really warm,” Erg 
said. “I’ve also ended up seeing a lot of old 
friends that I haven’t seen the last couple of years I’ve come through towns, which has been my favorite part of this tour.”
Lemuria’s Alex Kerns (drummer/vocal-
ist) and Sheena Ozzella (guitarist/vocal-ist) have worked together since the band’s 2004 origin, when a high school friendship formed out of their mutual love of punk 
rock. Kerns said that while they had a dif-
ferent bassist in the beginning, they met their current bassist, Max Gregor, who was a high-school student doing sound for one 
of their shows, and he ultimately became a 
part of their band. 
“We’re not only best friends but we are 
family, we’ve been friends so long that we know how to disagree without arguing,” 
Kerns said. “For half of the band’s life we 
haven’t lived in the same time zone, but we still make sure to all get together and work on new songs and tour.”
Kerns, who had recently dealt with the 
loss of a loved one when “Get Better” was ﬁ  rst released, said that replaying the album on tour has been refreshing. 
“It’s nice to have the hard feelings of my 
past conveniently organized into songs,” Kerns said. “Music wasn’t only the outlet for my troubles, but also a cage for them.”
Unlike a lot of recent bands that have 
been going on anniversary tours to live off of the nostalgia of early-2000s punk, Le-muria is still producing quality music 10 years later. This includes a new album be-ing released at the end of the year and a 
scene in a movie that drummer/vocalist 
Alex Kerns said is currently in production. 
Kerns said that his hopes for this tour 
is that for anyone who takes the night off 
from studying or a couple who ﬁ  nds a bab-
ysitter to ﬁ  nally get a night out, that their show is something that helps them mental-ly escape from their daily stress and worry. 
The 18-and-older show opens at 9 p.m., 
and tickets can be bought in advance from ticketﬂ  y.com for $12 or $14 at the door. 
Indie band Lemuria to perform 10th anniversary show
MUSIC
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer
Shock Top will sponsor a beer 
and yoga event through local studio Flow Space on the ooZoo 
rooftop Saturday from 5 p.m. to 
6 p.m. 
Participants will learn a series 
of yoga poses that can be done 
while holding a beer bottle.
“I hope everyone is going to be laughing a lot, that’s my goal,” 
said Maggie Rucker, a yoga in-
structor and co-owner of Flow 
Space.
This class is a prototype for fu-
ture classes, Rucker said.
“This is sort of like a trial 
class,” Rucker said. “It blew up on Facebook. Over 500 people were interested in a couple of days, but only 30 spots on the 
(ooZoo) rooftop.”Rucker is already planning to 
host similar classes in the future and is hoping to make it a bi-
weekly event.
“This class is deﬁ  nitely friend-
ly to even the people who have never done yoga before,” Rucker 
said. “That’s the beauty of some-
thing like this.”
The alcohol allows people to 
lower their walls and lets them 
feel looser in their body and their mind, Rucker said.
“You can do some really fun 
things with the beer,” Rucker 
said. “You can balance it on your hand or your head, and you can also takes sips during poses or challenging transitions.”
An hour of yoga and a beer 
will cost $5.
This Saturday’s event is al-
ready full, and it has been since 
two days after the Facebook event was posted.
“We might have to change it to 
Sunday if it rains,” Rucker said. 
“There might be a turnover be-cause some people can’t make it on Sunday. If we do change it, it will be around noon on Sunday.”
Even though this week’s class 
is already full, future classes are already being planned.
“It got so popular we do want 
to do it again,” Rucker said. “Hopefully every other week or every month even.”
To guarantee your spot in the 
next class that’s offered, you 
should reserve and pay for your 
place online, Rucker said.
If waiting a few more Satur-
days to get the “brewga” ﬁ  x isn’t 
an option, yoga instructor Kelsey 
Anhalt is hosting Tipple’s Tipsy Beer Yoga on Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., and spots are still available. 
This event, which takes place 
at Tipple’s Brews, is $20 for hun-dreds of beers and an hourlong class, Anhalt said. 
With Gainesville’s heavy con-
centration of breweries and mil-lennials, it seems like brewga was a trend just waiting to happen.
“Alternative forms of ﬁ  tness 
are so popular right now,” Ruck-er said. “Starting slow is a re-ally good idea, learning the basic things, so that when you go and 
take a class you feel comfortable 
and conﬁ  dent.”
The event is for those 21 and 
over with a valid ID, and par-ticipants are encouraged to bring 
their own mats. Beer yoga class ﬁ  nds its way onto ooZoo rooftop, sells out
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
Maggie Rucker, a yoga instructor and co-owner of Flow Space, which is putting on Saturday’s 
event, demonstrates some of the poses that can be done that incorporate a beer. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2Volunteers of America is offering
FREE, ALL-INCLUSIVE 
HOUSING FOR
HOMELESS VETERANS
in a friendly, supportive atmosphere.
Please call Woody at 352-642-8313
for immediate move-in!
2-22-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Female only. Sublease a furn BR in 3/2 pent-house at fabulously close to campus Social 28. Avail 5/1 to 7/31, 2017. $825/mo. Pool, gym, internet, utils & flat screen TV in BR are incl. Please call Tammy 954-599-6433     2-20-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-20-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
JEEP WRANGLER UNLIMITED
For sale, 2016, white 4 door, 3810 miles, 
$38,000, or $10,000 and take over pay-
ments. Call 225-239-8512    2-21-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Typist needed for book. 10 to 20 
hours per week , call 317-5427
2-20-5-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Assessment Writers/Editors
Progress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Truly wretched
7 E equivalent, on
scores
12 Bygone space
station
15 Reaction to a
comeback
16 Contact17 Long-necked bird18 Fitness challenge20 Metz moniker21 Colo. setting22 See-through23 Even-odds
situation
25 Scand. land
27 Not much
29 Nosebag fill
30 Male pal, in slang32 Cold sore relief
product
35 Cellist with
multipleGrammys
38 Baseball
collectibles
41 Pure43 Stated as fact45 Sits in a cell
48 Set up in a glade,
say
49 Bike whose
company 66-
Across ends 26-Down
50 Name on a
shuttle, whosecompany 66-Across ends 24-Down
51 Lamb sandwich54 Pamplona kudos56 Outrage
57 Mountain
predator
60 Trojan War epic
62 Church based in
SLC, Utah
65 Center66 Market
representative?
69 Foofaraw70 “American
Buffalo”playwright
71 Erie Canal city72 Passel73 More than
amuses
74 Greenery
DOWN
1 Splitting target2 Short cuts3 Reagan-era
slogan4 Outer: Pref.5 Run after6 __ support7 Liberty
8 Auto with a
prancing horse
logo, whose
company 66-
Across ends 18-Across
9 Mike Trout’s
team, on
scoreboards
10 Check no.11 “Sons of
Anarchy” actor
Rossi
12 Brainy bunch13 Passing remark?14 Beef cuts19 Field24 Alternative
energy vehicle
26 Unreserved way
to go
28 “Hulk” star Eric
30 Fly-__: air
passes
31 Juicer’s juice?
33 Nonsense34 “__ Holden”:
Irving Bachellernovel
36 Cactus League
spring trainingcity37 Neil deGrasse
Tyson subj.
39 Blizzard
restriction,
perhaps
40 Final Four
matchup
42 Rural storehouse
44 Plays usually
involving the SS
46 “I’m a fan!”
47 Shoelace holders
51 IM option
52 “Seriously?”53 Apply, as
sunscreen
55 Respectful word
56 Pastoral piece58 Stop-offs before
big dates, maybe
59 Muscat money61 Rush job letters63 “Knock it off!”64 Stallone and
Stone
67 Nashville awards
gp.
68 Mgmt. degree
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/16/1702/16/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 16, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Amelia Hundley is channelling her energy toward becoming one of UF's best all-around gymnasts, pg. 16Three UF baseball players named to prestigious list
Starting pitcher Alex Faedo, shortstop Dalton Guthrie and catcher/ﬁ  rst 
baseman JJ Schwarz were all named to the 2017 Golden Spikes Award 
watch list, USA Baseball announced Wednesday. The award honors the top 
amateur baseball player — either college or high school — in the country. By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
No. 15 Florida will ﬁ  nish the season 
without its starting center.
John Egbunu, the 6-foot-11 redshirt ju-
nior from Nigeria, tore his left ACL in UF’s 
win against Auburn on Tuesday and is not expected to recover for 10 to 12 months, the team announced on Wednesday. 
Egbunu started 19 of 26 games for the Gators and leads the team with 6.6 rebounds per game. He was coming off back-to-back double-digit scoring games for the ﬁ  rst time this season. 
“We’re all disappointed for John,” UF 
coach Mike White said in a release. “He’s been playing really well of late, so it’s a tough blow to him and our team."
Florida also announced on Wednes-
day that backup center freshman Gorjok Gak suffered a left foot sprain in practice and is projected to be out for 10 to 14 days. 
The injuries come as UF (21-5, 11-2 
SEC) is on a seven-game winning streak with just ﬁ  ve regular-season games left. 
Sophomore forward Kevarrius Hayes 
is the most likely candidate to start in Eg-bunu’s place. Hayes started seven games at center earlier in the season when Eg-bunu had a hamstring injury and is aver-aging 6.2 points and 3.8 rebounds in 15.4 minutes per game this year. 
With Gak also out, senior Schuyler 
Rimmer — who has played just 83 min-utes this season — will likely back up Hayes at center. Florida’s 6-foot-8 forward Justin Leon also played center in high school and may get time at center when UF plays smaller lineups.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org 
 UF center John Egbunu out for season with torn ACLBy Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
With one out in the top of the third 
inning, junior Nicole DeWitt stood in the 
batter's box. 
For the Jacksonville Dolphins, having 
DeWitt up to bat was not ideal.
She entered the game boasting UF's 
third-best on-base percentage, and with 
one out, the bases were loaded.  DeWitt, who had seven hits in the 
ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games of the season, capital-
ized.
She drove the ball to left-center ﬁ  eld, 
bringing home freshman Jaimie Hoover and senior Justine McLean, the ﬁ  rst runs of the game.
From there, the Gators’ powerful hit-
ting, as well as their defense, was on display as they dominated the Dolphins, winning 6-0 on Wednesday at the Pruitt Softball Complex in Jacksonville. 
Florida is now 19-0 overall against 
Jacksonville and 34-1 versus in-state op-
ponents since the start of 2014.   
Pitching for the Gators was senior 
Delanie Gourley. A 2016 First-Team All 
American, her pitching prowess showed 
Wednesday evening. She allowed two 
hits and tallied eight strikeouts to cap-ture her third win of the season. Gators outgun, outlast Jacksonville
Baseball is back. 
Let me repeat that. 
Baseball is freakin’ back. Ahh yes, the sweet smell of freshly trimmed 
grass and the popping sound of catchers’ mitts 
has ﬁ  nally returned. America’s pastime is here to save us all from seeing any more tweets about Donald Trump — because we all know we need it. 
In case you’ve been living under some un-American 
rock, this week marks the time when major league pitchers and catchers report to Florida and Arizona for spring training.
College baseball also starts back up, with the Gators 
opening their season tomorrow at McKethan Stadium against William & Mary. 
I could go on and on about why you should be ec-
static that the greatest sport in the world will soon dom-inate much of ESPN and the rest of your TV channels. 
But I won’t. I’d rather discuss a topic MLB has recently focused 
on under commissioner Rob Manfred: speeding up the game. 
The league has considered a few ways to do this. One is to introduce a pitch clock, which would limit 
the amount of time a pitcher has between tossing each pitch. This rule has already been in effect in Triple-A and Double-A.
Another way is to start each extra inning with a run-
ner on second, an idea that would almost surely speed up the game.
Both are bad ideas.Don’t get me wrong. I’m not against change. Even 
Alexander Cartwright, the credited inventor of baseball, would probably agree with some modiﬁ  cations now.
But I fear MLB may be falling down a road simi- Baseball is just 
fine the way it isNO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
Alligator File Photo
Nicole DeWitt (23) looks on during Florida's win over Alabama State on May 20 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
SOFTBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLSEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
Egbunu
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
Hoover  also had an impressive game, making 
plays on both offense and defense. After nabbing a 
line-drive ball down third base in the bottom of the 
fourth to end the inning, she followed with a triple 
in the ﬁ  fth inning. 
She ended the game with two hits, one run and 
one RBI. Her triple was the ﬁ  rst Florida has hit this season.
McLean also made stops on defense, stretching 
out to snatch a ball deep in left-center ﬁ  eld in the bottom of the ﬁ  fth. She had a pair of hits in the game.
But the Gators didn't score again until the sixth 
inning, when four more runs were added in part due to mistakes by the Dolphins.After DeWitt and junior Kayli Kvistad were both 
walked and then advanced a base due to a pitching 
error, DeWitt was able to score on a wild pitch.
Then it was freshman Jordan Roberts who 
stepped up, hitting the sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y to send home 
Kvistad.
And two more singles came from redshirt fresh-
man Sophia Reynoso and Hoover, with Reynoso stealing second base and then scoring off of a wild throw. They had the ﬁ  nal hits of the evening, and Florida ended with six in total.
Florida (6-0), which was ranked Tuesday as the 
top team in the country, will aim to remain un-defeated when it opens up home play this Friday against Northwestern State.
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 14UF faces Northwestern State on Fridaylar to that of the NFL, which has 
been ridiculed for many of its rules. An obvious example are the absurd rules for overtime, which is basically 
decided by a coin ﬂ  ip (Super Bowl 
LI, anyone?). 
And yeah, I get the reasoning be-
hind placing a runner on second — 
to shorten games so you don’t have 
any more of these 20-inning affairs 
in which coaches have exhausted their bullpens and have turned to position players on the mound. 
But hello, watching Ichiro Suzuki 
strike someone out is 10 times more enjoyable than if any run-of-the-mill reliever did it. 
Oh, and consider Game 7 of last 
year’s World Series, an iconic extra-inning contest that even featured a rain delay. Only some 40 million-or-so viewers tuned in to see the Chi-cago Cubs make history that night. 
Baseball is boring. There’s not enough action. 
Too much standing around. 
That’s what you commonly hear 
from detractors of the game, those 
with no patience or appreciation for the ﬁ  ner details involved on the dia-
mond. You know, for things like the 
mental guessing game pitchers and 
hitters play when facing each other. 
But there’s no other sport quite 
like baseball.
You can’t take a knee or run out 
the clock. Anything can happen at any given moment, including during 
the ﬁ  nal few pitches. 
Let’s not mess with it. 
Patrick Pinak is the online sports 
editor. His column appears on 
Thursdays. Contact him at ppinak@
alligator.org, and follow him on 
Twitter @pinakk12. COLUMN,  from pg. 14
The Associated Press
MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred walks to a news conference 
following a meeting with MLB owners on Feb. 3.
Alligator File Photo
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1. 
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2017
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
It’s the pivotal moment of any 
Florida ﬂ  oor routine.
For years, it has been the pro-
gram’s signature.
The crowd anxiously waits to do 
it at the same time as the gymnasts, 
and by the third home meet of the season, they know exactly when in the routine it’s going to happen.
On the sidelines, the team does 
it along with the teammate compet-ing.
It’s the Gator chomp.“I think the crowd really likes 
that,” freshman Amelia Hundley said on Wednesday.
Hundley’s chomp comes right 
before her last tumbling pass, a double pike, and as soon as she hit it on Friday against Georgia, her smile beamed so wide that it seemed to ignite an already-ener-getic crowd of more than 8,300 at the O’Connell Center.
“It’s crazy the energy we get, and 
we feed off (it) from the crowd,” 
Hundley said. “Because you feel 
that extra energy and you can put that extra little oomph into it.”
That energy helped push her to 
score a 9.925 on ﬂ  oor, a career best, after she had already scored a ca-reer best on bars (9.975) earlier in the night.
It’s also proof of how the Ohio 
native has thrived and progressed through six meets as a Gator.
Florida coach Jenny Rowland, 
who has put Hundley in every all-around lineup this season, isn’t surprised that she is already having success.
“Amelia is just an amazing 
athlete mentally,” Rowland said.  
“She’s just really enjoying her-
self on the competition ﬂ  oor, and I think that has made her a better competitor.” 
Her teammates, who imitate her routine on the sideline, have helped make the transition to competing for a team easier.
“Before, I kind of trained by my-
self and you knew the other girls’ routines, but it wasn’t really accept-able to do it on the side with them,” Hundley said. “So I love that the girls can go along with me and do it with me.”
Now that the Gators are past the 
halfway point of the regular season, 
Hundley will feel pressure to keep 
up her level of performance as the meets get more and more important approaching the postseason.
However, teammate Kennedy 
Baker isn’t worried. 
“She’s always been a great com-
petitor,” Baker said. “Watching her from meet to meet, it’s been really, 
really cool to see her become more 
and more conﬁ  dent.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Freshman Hundley emerging as star
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Amelia Hundley does a Gator chomp during her ﬂ  oor routine on Friday against Georgia.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Shimmy Gray-Miller still vividly 
remembers the ﬁ  rst time she met Kay Yow.
After graduating from the Univer-
sity of Michigan in 1994, Gray-Miller 
was invited to participate in a scrim-
mage against Yow’s North Carolina State Wolfpack along with several other former college basketball play-
ers.
Before the 
contest, she and 
the rest of her teammates sat 
and listened to Yow — N.C. State’s legendary 
coach — speak 
during the pre-game meal, lead-
ing to several memorable moments that still make Gray-Miller smile. 
“(Coach Yow) talked to us and 
shared with us and prayed for us,” she said. “And then we went out and beat them, and after the game she 
still prayed for us, which I thought 
was pretty awesome.”
Now, as an assistant coach at 
Florida more than two decades later, Gray-Miller has an opportunity to honor and reﬂ  ect on Yow’s memory along with the rest of her team.
This week, the Gators and doz-
ens of other women’s college bas-
ketball programs are participating in 
the Play4Kay movement, a series of 
games where teams wear pink uni-
forms to raise awareness for breast 
cancer, a disease that took Yow’s life eight years ago.
Florida (13-12, 4-8 SEC) will take 
part in the event tonight for the sec-ond time this week when it takes on Missouri (17-9, 7-5 SEC) in the O’Connell Center at 7 p.m.
Play4Kay was created by the Kay Yow Cancer Fund several years ago and has drawn excitement from players up and down the Gators’ ros-
ter.
“I love being a part of bigger 
things like this,” guard Dyandria An-
derson said. “It’s a huge statement, and just being there for everybody who’s going through this and know-ing that they’re not in it alone. We’re here to support them.”
Anderson is one of the many 
members of UF’s program whose family has been affected by cancer. The junior lost her grandmother sev-eral years ago to the disease, and she  said the opportunity to raise aware-ness is a “blessing.”
“It’s beyond just one person,” 
Anderson said. “Families are af-fected by it day by day. This is just 
something that I love doing.”
While participating in Play4Kay 
has players and coaches happy to 
make a difference, UF’s focus will still be on making sure it notches a victory against the Tigers.
Missouri leads the SEC in three-
point shot attempts and ranks sec-ond in three-point makes, leading 
head coach Amanda Butler to focus 
on defending perimeter shooters in this week’s practice.
“They do that exceptionally well, 
and they have shooters all over the ﬂ  oor,” Butler said. “They’re truly a great team.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Gators embracing Play4Kay
Gray-Miller
GAME INFO:
• What: Florida Gators (13-
12, 4-8 SEC) vs. Missouri Tigers (17-9, 7-5 SEC)
• When: 7 p.m.
• Where: O’Connell Center
• TV: SEC Network +
• Radio: ESPN GainesvilleGYMNASTICS WOMEN’S BASKETBALL