We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 132 TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
Who should win NBA MVP?
Russell Westbrook is the frontrunner, but there 
are other options, pg. 13 .
Bojangles’ opens Gainesville location today
Located on Archer Road, it serves fried chicken and biscuits, pg. 4
World War II veteran honored 75 years later
The Gainesville resident, 95, enlisted after the attack on Pearl 
Harbor, pg. 5 .FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville-area residents will soon 
have a second chance to voice concerns to Rep. Ted Yoho after months of protests.
A town hall meeting will take place 
Monday at Abraham Lincoln Middle School, located at 1001 SE 12th St., from 6:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.
At the ﬁ  rst town hall meeting, which 
took place March 5 at Countryside Baptist Church, hundreds of residents — mostly comprised of Yoho protesters — gathered to voice their concerns with the congress-man. After the meeting ended, a sup-porter of President Donald Trump was punched in the face and eventually taken to the hospital, accord-ing to Alligator archives.
Yoho, a Republican 
serving North Central 
Florida’s congressional 
district, was elected in 
2012 and is currently 
serving his second term 
in the U.S. House of 
Representatives. He rep-
resents Alachua, Clay and Bradford coun-ties, as well as parts of Marion County.
Brian Kaveney, a spokesperson for 
Yoho, said the congressman was pleased with the last meeting.
“He liked it,” Kaveney said. “There After supporter punched  
at ﬁ  rst meeting, second 
Yoho town hall scheduled
Yoho
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ben Shapiro, 33, a Harvard University Law School graduate and conservative political commentator, delivers a talk inside the University Auditorium on Monday night. 
Shapiro’s appearance was hosted by Accent Speakers Bureau and UF Young Americans for Freedom.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
At the heart of a gathering drawn together by Ben Sha-piro’s appearance at UF, protesters and supporters deliberated the freedom of 
speech while awaiting the contro-versial conservative speaker.
The group of about 750 students 
was drawn to the University Audi-torium on Monday night before the editor-in-chief of The Daily Wire, a right-wing media outlet, answered questions about rape culture, health-care and fellow conservative Tomi Lahren. 
Shapiro also mentioned an in-
cident in 2015 in which he mis-
gendered a transgender reporter. 
Shapiro was paid $20,000 to speak 
— $15,000 covered by Accent 
Speakers Bureau and the remaining $5,000 covered by Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom, according to Al-
ligator archives.
Hours before Shapiro spoke, 
David Glass, 15, drove up with his 
mother and her boyfriend from 
Tampa to be one of the ﬁ  rst people 
in line.
Glass said he admires Shapiro be-
cause like Glass, he is both Jewish  Ben Shapiro, supporters unfazed by protesters
HE WILL BE PAID $88,000.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After a months-long search, UF’s Multi-
cultural and Diversity Affairs ofﬁ  cials have 
chosen Will Atkins as the new executive di-
rector.
Atkins has served in the interim execu-
tive director position since October after 
the former executive director Lloren Foster 
was ﬁ  red partly due to a lack of leadership, 
according to Alligator archives. Atkins will assume the full executive director position immediately and will be paid $88,000, said university spokesperson Margot Winick.
Atkins said he hopes to help MCDA con-
tinue serving its students and giving them supportive spaces. He said he also wants to continue educating the university about in-clusion. One of his goals is to develop work-shops for different on campus groups and classes.
“To me, it’s all about making sure stu-
dents feel like they are safe and they be-long,” Atkins said.
Atkins said he was humbled to be given 
the position.
“I recognize that there’s lots of work to 
be done moving forward, but I’m very up for the challenge and look forward to seeing what MCDA will do in the future,” he said.
In an email to Mary Kay Carodine, the 
assistant vice president for Student Affairs, the search committee chair Calvin Mosley said the committee was split between Atkins 
and another candidate, Kimberly Williams-
Brown. Mosley said it was up to Carodine as I nterim UF MCDA director 
to ﬁ  ll position permanentlySEE SHAPIRO,  PAGE 9
SEE YOHO,  PAGE 9 SEE MCDA,  PAGE 9Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week
The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s Second Annual Graduate Student 
Appreciation Week from today 
until Friday. This weeklong event is designed to celebrate the accomplishments and con-tributions of more than 12,000 UF graduate students. The week will showcase the work of UF’s graduate students and high-light the services they provide 
to the university and commu-
nity through research, teaching and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, Graduate Wellness Day with the Counseling & Wellness Center, professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student orga-
nization showcase, an ice cream 
social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring game. To learn more, visit grad-uateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
University Galleries presents 
‘Currents 2017’
University Galleries and student 
organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present “Currents 2017 — Perception: Color and Content” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until April 19. “Currents” is an annual national juried exhibition co-juried by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. 
“Perception: Color and Content” 
is thematically focused on the idea of how perception of color can change the way content is seen. This important annual exhibition selects jurors and ad-dresses contemporary themes in ceramic art. “Currents 2017” will expand the educational experi-
ence for students in UF’s School 
of Art + Art History and engage the public with color and content within contemporary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening reception are free and open to the public.
University Galleries presents 
MFA Thesis Exhibition IIUniversity Gallery is pleased to present an exciting exhibition from today to April 14 of art-work by graduating UF Master of Fine Arts (MFA) students. The types of media represented in-clude graphic design, ceramics, installation, painting, printmak-
ing, sculpture and video. The 
exhibition and the opening re-ception are free and open to the public. The opening reception will be Thursday at 5:30 p.m. Participants include Christina M. Carfora, Laura Denzer, Kaleb Foshee, Mallory E. Goerk, Joshua Hobson and Bahareh Karamifar. For more information visit arts.
ufl.edu.
Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual Violence
Join Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, the UF Student Health Care Center and planning part-ners as they Take Back the Night 
to demonstrate support for sexual 
violence survivors, share stories and create a culture of care. The event will take place Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. on Norman Field. It involves a 1-mile march around campus that ends with an open-mic event. There will be speak-ers, resources for survivors, 
free T-shirts, food and amazing 
performers. Learn more at face-book.com/StriveUF or email rital@ufsa.ufl.edu.
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as Connecting the Living to the Dead
A historian of the Islamic world, 
France and medicine from McMaster University will give a free public lecture Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Ellen Amster will discuss the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in pre-colonial Morocco. For Muslim 
pilgrims visiting the tombs of the 
saints, these holy bodies offered cures by linking heaven and Earth. These traditions and be-liefs were challenged by French colonialism and notions of sci-ence in the late 19th century and early 20th century. This event is the seventh in an eight-part series 
called “Death: Confronting the 
Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars and filmmakers explore unique cultural and historical confron-tations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion.
Visiting Artist Lecture with Mike 
Calway-FagenThe UF School of Art + Art History at UF is proud to pres-ent visiting artist Mike Calway-Fagen as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series Thursday at 6 p.m. in Fine Arts 
Building B, Room 103 (FAB 
103). The lecture offers the com-munity at large an important opportunity for dialogue about contemporary art and culture in relation to national and interna-tional trends. For more informa-tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.Discover how you can make an 
impact abroadUF faculty are encouraged to participate in a Faculty Fulbright 
Workshop on Friday from noon 
to 2 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. The facilitators for this workshop, entitled How to Prepare a Successful Fulbright Application, are Anna Calluori Holcombe from the UF College of the Arts, John Freeman from the UF College of Journalism and 
Communications and Greg Kiker 
from the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences. Lunch will be served. Please register at eventbrite.com (search the event by the title) or contact Dr. Claire Anumba at canumba@ufic.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to host speed 
dating science event April 12Speed date a science subject. Join the Florida Museum of Natural History for an evening of science and snacks April 12 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. At Speed Science: Night at the Museum, guests may ask scientists their 
most burning questions one-on-
one. Pre-registration is required, and participants must be 18 years or older. The cost is $20 for members or $25 for nonmem-bers. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/cal-endar/grid/speed-science-1 or call 352-273-2064.
CORRECTION:
In an article published March 3 titled "Fourth annual TEDxUF attracts about 1,200 people,the Alligator incorectly reported that Saturday's event was the 
fourth annual. It was the eighth 
annual.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  85° LOW  68°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 132TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
HIS BLOOD ALCOHOL LEVELS 
WERE .131 AND .118.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A man asleep behind the wheel of 
his car on Sunday made matters worse 
after his foot slipped off the brake, causing his car to collide with an Ala -
chua County Sheriff’s Office patrol car.
Dontrazus Darnell Zytrevi Mack, 23, 
soon found himself in handcuffs after a 
deputy found him snoozing at about 4 
a.m. in his car while it was running and 
in drive, according to an arrest report. 
There were no reported damages to 
the patrol car.
Mack told police he was on his way home from his cousin’s house, accord -
ing to the report. His eyes were blood -
shot and droopy, police said. 
Even though deputies smelled alco -
hol on his breath, Mack told them he 
“was not that drunk,” police said.
Mack performed poorly on field so -
briety exercises, and his blood alcohol 
levels were .131 and .118, according to 
the report.Police arrested Mack on a charge 
of driving under the influence. He was 
taken to Alachua County Jail where he 
was released Monday afternoon on his 
own recognizance.
Mack could not be reached for com -
ment.
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgACSO: Drunken driver falls asleep, crashes patrol car
Mack
By Kristen Dugan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Fans of fried chicken and biscuits 
have a reason to wake up today.
Bojangles’ Famous Chicken ‘n 
Biscuits, a Southern style restaurant 
chain known for its fried chicken 
and biscuits, opens today at 3100 
SW Archer Road. 
To celebrate its opening day, the 
first 50 dine-in customers will re -
ceive a $25 Bojangles’ gift card. 
All customers who attend can 
also enter to win a mountain bike 
or a patio umbrella among other 
giveaways.
The restaurant will be open from 
5 a.m. to 10 p.m., and the drive-thru 
is open until 11 p.m.
Alan Chestnut, who is oversee -ing the Gainesville location, said he 
hopes to partner with UF for tailgat -
ing events and fundraising opportu -
nities with student organizations.
“We can also make discounted 
meals for different organizations, 
we really love many different types 
of partnerships to help college orga -
nizations fundraise,” Chestnut said.
Aaron Mandell, a Santa Fe Col -
lege English junior, said he is ex -
cited to see the franchise come to 
Gainesville.
“Everybody loves fried chicken,” the 21-year-old said.
Melissa Howell Johnson, a stay-
at-home mom living in Gainesville, 
said she is happy to see a Bojangles’ 
come to Florida. Howell Johnson 
is originally from North Carolina, 
which is where the restaurant origi -
nally started.
“There is a Bojangles’ on every 
block back home, and it is the place 
everyone goes,” the 46-year-old 
said.
Howell Johnson said she expects 
the Bojangles’ to gain a lot of busi -
ness from students and Gainesville 
residents.
“It’s way better than any chicken 
place Gainesville has right now,” 
she said. “The UF kids are abso -
lutely going to love it.”Bojangles’ restaurant opens Gainesville location today
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Pictured is  the Bojangles’ Famous Chicken ‘n Biscuits restaurant,  
located at 3100 SW Archer Road.  Bojangles’ is set to open today. 
UF PROPOSED RAISING 
THE COST OF GRADUATE 
ASSISTANTS’ HEALTH 
INSURANCE.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After two weeks of not having 
bargaining meetings, UF negotiators 
came forward without a counterof -
fer to Graduate Assistants United.
At a meeting Monday night in Pugh Hall, members of GAU and 
UF’s negotiators met with represen -
tatives of UF Health to ask questions 
about health insurance. The union, 
made up of graduate assistants, has 
been in talks with UF over health 
insurance packages since late Janu -
ary, according to Alligator archives. 
UF proposed raising the cost of 
insurance on Jan. 30, and as a re -
sponse, GAU asked for the cost to 
remain the same.
A planned negotiation session was scheduled after the meeting 
with UF Health.
Charles Shields, GAU’s commu -
nication chair, said UF’s chief bar -
gainer Bill Connellan had nothing 
new to present, so the meeting was 
called off. The previous two meet -
ings were canceled due to schedul -
ing conflicts, Shields said.
“We were expecting to do some 
bargaining after that session was 
over, and we were disappointed 
that they didn’t have a counteroffer for us,” Shields said.
University spokesperson Janine 
Sikes said the university won’t dis -
cuss the status of negotiations.
“It is not appropriate to negoti -
ate the terms of a union contract in 
the newspaper,” Sikes wrote in an 
email.
Shields said having to wait to ne -
gotiate the health care package de -
lays their ability to negotiate other 
parts of their contract, like stipends 
and fee relief, which is renegotiated every three years. He said it’s hard 
for union members, who are volun -
teers, to keep taking time from their 
day.
“Delaying the process is push -
ing us ever closer to that deadline,” 
he said, “and we don’t want to be 
pushed up against the deadline 
where we’re trying to negotiate ev -
erything right at the end.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF, GAU continue bargain over health care insurance costs“It has really good chicken 
and biscuits. Everybody loves 
fried chicken.”
Aaron Mandell
Santa Fe College studentTUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Seventy-ﬁ  ve years after enlisting 
in the U.S. Army, Charles Moloney 
Sr. was honored for his service on Friday.
Moloney, a 95-year-old 
Gainesville resident who served as an airplane mechanic in World War II, joined the Army about four months after the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
It was his duty as an American, 
he reasoned.
 But it wasn’t until Friday that his 
ﬁ  ve years in the Army — time spent 
in China, Burma and India — were 
ofﬁ  cially recognized, with Rep. Ted Yoho handing him award af-ter award, along with an American ﬂ  ag that had ﬂ  own over the Capitol Building in Washington, D.C., dur-ing a ceremony in Starke, Florida.
“I get a little choked up when I 
think of the price these people paid 
for our liberties and freedoms,” said 
Yoho, a Republican serving North Central Florida’s congressional dis-trict. “It’s amazing that you have people willing to serve our nation in that capacity.”
About 50 service members, 
friends and family sat at the entrance of Camp Blanding in Starke, the site 
of the former Army base where Ma-
loney enlisted in April 1942.
Maloney smiled as Yoho shook 
his hand.
In total, Moloney earned six awards: The Presidential Unit Ci-tation, the Good Conduct Medal, Honorable Service Lapel Pin, the American Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Paciﬁ  c Campaign Medal and the World War II Victory Medal. 
Yoho said Moloney is one of the last World War II veterans from Camp Blanding.
When Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce contacted 
Moloney to tell him about the award ceremony, Moloney cried. He brought his family to the award cer-emony, including his 3-month-old great-great-great-great grandson, Jordan.
After the ceremony, about 12 
service members went up to shake Moloney’s hand and thank him for his service. Moloney proudly in-troduced them to Jordan, who was sitting on his lap, giving a toothless grin and bobbing his head around.
Col. Daniel Johnson, of the 
Florida Army National Guard, said the service members volunteered to attend the ceremony because they wanted the chance to meet a World 
War II veteran.
“They saw it as important to 
shake that man’s hand,” Johnson 
said. “He is a part of our history.”
Moloney told each service mem-
ber he met to always follow orders given to them by their commanding ofﬁ  cers and to be honorable. He said that was the most valuable lesson 
he learned during the war — a les-
son he passed on to his son, Charles Moloney Jr.
“He told me if I was going to do 
a job, I should do it well and honor-ably,” Charles Moloney Jr. said.
The elder Moloney said his life 
was often saved by God, and he still attends church four to ﬁ  ve times a 
week.
“I was bombed at, and they 
missed,” Moloney Sr. said. “I know 
it wasn’t just luck.”
He ﬁ  nally retired from being a 
mechanic in 1988 and currently lives on a 7-acre farm off Southwest Tower Road. He said, in 75 years, much remains the same.
“The world hasn’t changed,” he 
said. “The only thing that’s changed is me. I’m older.”
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
By Cooper Fulcher
Alligator Contributing Writer
Comic book and anime fans can 
cosplay their favorite characters 
this weekend. 
The Alachua County Library 
District will host its third annual Fandomonium on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The event is free and expected to draw a few thousand fans in face paint and costumes, said Jessica Miller, a 33-year-old youth services librarian at the Headquarters Library.
Workshops, presentations, pan-
el discussions, activities and con-tests will ﬁ  ll all three ﬂ  oors of the library, Miller said. Featured guests include Andre Frattino, a graphic illustrator and a UF alumnus; New York Times best-selling author Kami Garcia, who wrote the young adult series, “Beautiful Creatures”; and a musician from Draco and the Malfoys, a Harry Potter parody band that sings songs from Draco Malfoy’s point of view.
Helena McNeer, a 34-year-old 
librarian at Cone Park Library, de-clined to disclose how much the guest speakers are being paid.  
There will also be a costume 
contest, in which winners will be chosen from each age category de-pending on whether they’re a child, teenager or adult, McNeer said.
McNeer said she will be attend-
ing the event dressed as Spock from Star Trek.
“I really enjoyed our event last 
year,” McNeer said. “There was over a thousand people in atten-dance.”
Miller will also be moderating 
a panel on manga, a style of Japa-nese comic books and graphic nov-els. 
For those who don’t fall under 
the anime umbrella, there is also usually a large fan base of Harry Potter and Star Wars fans, Miller said.
“The best costume I’ve seen at a 
Comic Con event would have to be Bender from Futurama,” she said. “Bender is basically a robot who smokes cigars and drinks a lot. It’s 
awesome.”  Seventy-ﬁ  ve years later, World War II veteran honored
Alachua County library district to host cosplaying event Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Charles D. Moloney, a 95-year-old World War II veteran, shakes Rep. T ed Yoho’s hand during a ceremony 
honoring Moloney’s service during WWII at Camp Blanding Joint Training Center on Friday. Moloney enlisted in the U.S. Army on April 4,1942, and received six medals on Friday that he hadn’t received after leaving the U.S. Army.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
OK, now when’s the 
Lil Wayne protest?
On Monday night, a small group of UF students carried 
signs and yelled into megaphones in protest of Ben Shapiro’s appearance on campus. Remarkably outnum-bered by students waiting in a snaking line to see the controversial conservative talking head, the protesters 
stood in the name of morality, for the sake of letting UF know that they wouldn’t stand for Shapiro’s anti-LGBTQ+ stances.
We can respect that.But tonight, a long line of equally eager fans will go unchal-
lenged, as rap star Lil Wayne comes to the O’Connell Center for a concert. Keep in mind that much of Lil Wayne’s discography includes insensitive remarks regarding homosexuals, the trans-gender community and women as an entire population.
While we at the Alligator respect the right to peacefully as-
semble on campus, especially when student dollars are being used, there is, very clearly, a double standard present here. And it’s bafﬂ  ing.
Don’t get us wrong, quite a few of us at the ofﬁ  ce are fans 
of rap music and of Lil Wayne, but it is curious that the very same students protesting Shapiro, the former Breitbart news editor, have yet to organize anything against Lil Wayne, who has spewed hundreds of misogynistic, crass and at-times ho-mophobic and transphobic lines over his decades-long career.
Do we forget about those lyrics, masked by the bass in his 
songs or the catchy cadences? Or do we simply not care enough?
This is a Lil Wayne line, from the 2008 song “Go DJ”: “You 
homo n----- / Getting AIDS in the a-- / While the homie here / Trying to get paid in advance.” 
Here is another, from the 2010 song “Right Above It”: “Guns 
turn you boys into p------/ (like a) Sex change.”
In a 2016 interview with ABC’s Linsey Davis, the rapper is 
asked, “What do you say to people who call your music vulgar, 
misogynistic, offensive, degrading?”
“If that’s what you think about the music, if that’s what you 
categorize it under, then so be it,” Lil Wayne replied. “All those 
things made me who I am, and I’m a very successful man.”
Davis then asked him about Black Lives Matter, a nation-
wide activist movement popularized in the wake of high-proﬁ  le shootings of black men by police.
Wayne’s response was apalling.“I am a young black rich motherf-----. If that don’t let you 
know that America understands black (expletive) matter these days, I don’t know what it is. Don’t come at me with that dumb s---, ma’am. My life matter, especially to my b----.”
Is he connected to the plight of the movement’s followers?“I don’t feel connected to a damn thing that ain’t got noth-
ing to do with me. If you do, you crazy as s---. I’m connected to this ﬂ  ag right (expletive) here, because I’m connected. I’m a gangbanger now.”
This man is being paid $125,000 to perform at UF. 
Shapiro, on the other hand, was paid just $20,000.
This isn’t to say Shapiro is a saint. In 2015, during a panel on 
HLN, Shapiro misgendered Inside Edition reporter Zoey Tur, a transgender woman.
“What are your genetics, sir?” he asked, after saying trans-
gender men and women must suffer from a mental disorder.
In no way are we calling for a protest against Lil Wayne. 
Hell, if we weren’t working, we’d probably shell a couple bucks to see him. But the point remains: How does it make sense to 
protest Shapiro and yet sit idly by as rappers like Lil Wayne 
come to our campus? 
It’s clear that these two men don’t exemplify the morals and 
values UF promotes. 
Why not protest them both?
Find what you’re passionate about, and pursue it
Passion. What a word. As college stu-
dents, this word probably means a lot to a good number of us. We’re 
told time and time again to major in 
something we love and to join organi-
zations centered around ideas we’re passion-ate about. The funny thing about this is that 
when we ﬁ  rst arrived on campus armed with 
twin XL sheets and a shower caddy, a lot of us may have thought we knew what we were passionate about, only to change our minds a little fur-ther down the road.
Don’t get me wrong — some of us knew exactly what 
we loved and never looked back. However, if you’re like me or a lot of other people, this is not the case. As we grow older, our ideas about what is important to us 
change. When we’re little, these ideas can be limited. 
Kids love their toys, or they love certain snack foods. I distinctly remember a time when my brother really loved dump trucks. Hey, to each his own, right? I did not share this love, but who was I to suggest that dump trucks 
were not something worthy of devoted admiration? 
Eventually, he moved on from this, as most kids 
move through phases of obsessions or things they love. I 
remember when I was obsessed with “Titanic.” I still am not too sure what sparked this interest, but I think it had 
something to do with that “Magic Tree House” book. My 
point is that it does not matter what you’re interested in, as long as you’re interested in something. 
From technology to music, literature to sports, non-
proﬁ  t organizations to politics, there is truly some-thing out there for anyone and everyone to ﬁ  nd a pas-sion and purpose. I’ve heard many opinions tossed around lately about our society being “doomed” and whatnot. I can’t say I don’t 
understand where they are coming from, but 
regardless, I would like to respectfully dis-agree. 
We’re so lucky to have the ability in this 
country to express ourselves in any way we would like and to agree or disagree with whatever we choose. I can be easily irritated 
at times, I admit, but the one thing that grinds my gears more than anything is when people don’t care. I’m not 
saying you have to care about the same things I do (al-
though, of course, I hope so). I’m not saying you must care about the things society tells you to care about. You don’t have to care about money or status. But please, 
just care about something. 
I’m not sure when it became cool or hip to not care 
about anything, but not only is it irritating to those 
who are passionate, but it’s also dangerous. If someone doesn’t care, why do they do anything? Why keep try-
ing? Why put in effort? If no one has told you this yet 
today, the world needs you here. We need you to care. We need you to try. We need you. Nothing would be the same without you, and not only will caring about 
something help us, it will help you. The world is a whole 
lot brighter when there is something you’re ﬁ  ghting for. 
Dear readers, we are only doomed when we stop car-
ing. We are only doomed when we decide the world no longer has anything of interest to offer. Everything may 
not be sunshine and rainbows in the world today, but 
there are still plenty of sunshine and rainbows to be found. Whether your passion is dump trucks or saving the world, there is something out there that needs your 
love. Find it. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
“If no one has told you this yet 
today, the world needs you here.”TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
The other week in my English theory 
course, we were talking about sexu-ality, feminism and the issues of gender. Speciﬁ  cally, we were dis-secting works like Michel Foucault’s 
“The History of Sexuality,” Donna Har-away’s “A Manifesto for Cyborgs: Science, Technology, and Socialist Feminism in the 1980s” and Judith Butler’s “Gender Trou-ble.” These works are all so dense that it takes a signiﬁ  cant amount of poise to parse through them, though even at times, I ﬁ  nd the lazier side of myself resorting to clos-ing the book.
However, I’m not here today to talk about whether Foucault’s, Ha-raway’s or Butler’s arguments have merit or are worth the read for their volume. I’m here to talk about another thing I noticed 
that each of these works — and 
others — tend to share: topic. 
I recognize that topic is quite 
the broad overlay, and well, it’s supposed to be. What I mean by topic is not that these three au-thors talk about sex, feminism or gender (as if those were all one topic), but that they all concern themselves, one 
way or another, with issues that concern the mass of people more than the 
intellectual. 
I’m not saying that works like 
the ones mentioned are pointless — that would be the most fool-
ish thing I could say. However, I 
feel that we, as intellectuals, run face-ﬁ  rst into this problem when it comes to more recent issues like gender, health care, econom-ics and more. How do you ex-plain the vastness of sexuality to 
your parents who have only heard of any-thing-besides-straight as evil or a phase?
Whenever I’m at an event, rally, pro-test or what have you and I hear one per-son explaining something like gender to another person, it’s either aggressive and standofﬁ  sh or esoteric and full of jargon. The jargon tends to come from studies of 
theory or thoughts about gender. While the 
theory of gender has been something of in-terest for the past few decades, maybe it’d be more important to focus on how we get most people — who don’t even understand the difference between sex and gender — onto a simpler page with us.
James Hardison is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Tuesdays.
When pondering theories, focus on getting everyone on the same pageColumn
James 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
and conservative.
“I really wanted to hear the thug 
speak,” Glass said. “I think
a lot of him reminds me of when I  would 
be older.”
But as some waited to hear Shapiro 
speak, others organized in protest. Nate 
Quinn, a UF psychology freshman, started 
organizing the protest Wednesday when 
he learned Shapiro was coming.
One of Shapiro’s well-known beliefs is 
about transgenderism and how he said it 
is a mental illness.
“A lot of people believe his rhetoric 
about trans people,” Quinn, a 19-year-old 
trans man, said. “It’s harmful.”
The group of protesters, carrying signs 
protesting Islamaphobia and the treat -
ment of Palestinians, stood by themselves, 
as some Shapiro supporters in line tried to 
ask questions. One supporter tried to tape 
a police tape around the area the protest -
ers were occupying while others yelled, 
“safe space.”
At 7 p.m., Shapiro began his speech by 
thanking the crowd for attending “despite 
the idiot protestors outside.” He criticized an op-ed in the Alligator that was against 
him speaking.
“Apparently, the premise here is that 
I make people feel unsafe,” Shapiro said. 
“I have one question, have you seen me?” 
gesturing to his small stature. 
During the brief talk, followed by a 
Q&A, Shapiro spoke about the philosophy 
of intersectionality, which he said sug -
gests liberals value people who identify 
with minority identities. He also argued 
pro-life and that women aren’t victimized 
in the U.S.
He also expanded on how people use 
emotions to counter facts, but that can be 
detrimental.
“When we decide the facts can be cast 
out in favor of your emotions, we are cre -
ating a politics that cannot work in a free 
nation,” Shapiro said.
Jacob Armstrong, a 19-year-old UF mu -
sic education sophomore, said he thought 
Shapiro was well spoken.
“I feel like anybody who would protest 
him hasn’t heard him speak,” he said. 
“People are trying to label him as things 
without hearing his arguments first.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
were people he probably didn’t agree with, 
and they didn’t agree with him, but they 
still had a conversation about what’s impor -
tant, what needs to happen and what to do 
going forward.”
Last month, Yoho, a member of the 
conservative House Freedom Caucus, de -
cided against voting ‘yes’ on the American 
Health Care Reform Act, otherwise known as Trumpcare.
Even though Yoho was planning on vot -
ing against Trumpcare, his office received 
approximately 3,000 calls from Gaines -
ville’s chapter of Indivisible demanding that 
the congressman vote against the bill, said 
Joy Pitts, the chapter’s leader.
Indivisible, a group dedicated to resist -
ing the agenda of Trump’s administration, 
helped organize the upcoming town hall 
meeting.
Pitts said although the first meeting was a good way to start an open dialogue with 
the congressman, the room was filled with 
tension between Yoho’s supporters and his 
opponents. That tension ultimately led to 
someone getting hurt, she said.
“We always tell our members that we’re 
nonviolent, we don’t want to engage in that 
sort of situation,” Pitts said. “Unfortunately, 
we can’t control everyone.”
She said she’s hoping about 600 people 
make it to the meeting Monday. 
Last month, approximately 200 Yoho protesters and 20 Yoho supporters attended 
the town hall.
“I just want people to come that maybe 
have never been to a town hall before or 
have never met the congressman before,” 
she said. “Indivisible’s role is to get people 
engaged who maybe have not been involved 
before. This is a great way to do that.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgYOHO,  from pg. 1Yoho is a member of the conservative House Freedom CaucusPROCEEDS FROM THE EVENT WILL 
GO TOWARD THE NONPROFIT 
NOAH’S ENDEAVOR.
By Courtney Moberley
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Cars, trucks and motorcycles will line the 
streets of downtown this Saturday during 
the first Great Gainesville Car show.
The free show will be from noon to about 
3 p.m. on the streets outside the Hippodrome 
State Theatre to Bo Diddley Community Pla -
za, said Michael Cizek, who organized the 
show.
Cizek, 21, said he created the show for a 
group project in his sales management mar -
keting class. The proceeds from the event 
will go toward Noah’s Endeavor, a local 
nonprofit that hosts activities and events for 
children with disabilities.
“We were trying to brainstorm, ‘How do 
we raise money for a nonprofit in a new and 
creative way?’” said Cizek, a UF marketing 
junior. 
The car show was the solution they came up with, which Cizek said is the first of its 
kind in Gainesville.
The event has space for 175 vehicles, and 
registration for participants will occur from 
10 a.m. to noon, he said. It will cost $20 to 
register a car or truck and $10 for a motor -
cycle. 
“It’s something that isn’t being done yet, 
but car shows are fun for everybody, and 
it’s all for a great cause,” he said, adding 
that he hopes to raise about $2,000 for the 
nonprofit. 
Members of the Gainesville Street Rods, 
a club that raises money for children with 
cancer, plan to attend the event, said Walter 
Bell, 72, who has been a member of the club 
for 14 years.
Bell said he plans on bringing a ’64 Ford 
Falcon Sprint to the show. His Sprint has 
a bench seat, one of only 3,683 that were 
made that way. 
“At a young age, I started looking at cars 
and women,” Bell said. “Back in my early 
days, any young kid who got in a car was 
always intrigued with them because they got 
you some place.”UF student plans Gainesville 
car show to benefit charity
the hiring manager.
Some of the strengths the commit -
tee liked about Atkins were his ideas on 
how to improve MCDA, his consistent 
leadership and relationship with am -
bassadors and colleagues. One weak -
ness listed was that they were “worried 
about how students would react to him 
in this position.”
In the past semester, three directors 
within MCDA resigned, according to Al -
ligator archives. Some felt pushed out. 
Another was accused of creating emo -
tional abuse within her department.
Outgoing and former directors have 
attributed the department’s damaging 
culture as the reason for leaving.
To help with the turmoil within the 
department, Atkins said he needs to lis -
ten to students’ experiences.
“I think it’s really important for me 
to meet the students where they are and 
to really hear their voices and make 
sure that their voices are affirmed in the process,” Atkins said.
Ashley Marceus, a 
19-year-old UF politi -
cal science and Afri -
can American studies 
sophomore, said she 
was thankful Atkins 
got the position. 
Marceus, an am -
bassador with Black Affairs, got to 
know Atkins while he helped out after 
the former director, Vee Byrd, resigned.
“We have been through a lot as a 
whole family these four months, and I 
think he has gotten a feel for that,” she 
said.
She said she’s seen how much At -
kins cares about the department and the 
students and expects him to use that as 
executive director.
“I think he’s going to use that pas -
sion and apply it to every one of the 
areas and make MCDA better overall,” 
she said.  
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgThree directors within 
MCDA have left this year
Atkins
SHAPIRO,  from pg. 1Before he spoke, about 750 protesters and supporters gatheredMCDA,  from pg. 1
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Greg Cruz, 40, uses a megaphone to lead chants at the protest of Ben Shapiro at the University 
Auditorium on Monday. Cruz, a photographer and videographer for the Black Lives Matter 
movement, came from T ampa in order to participate in the protest.
TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
3 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! 
Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     4-5-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-5-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a re-covering brain-damaged woman in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bkgrnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    4-4-17-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
BRUNSWICK BILLIARD
slate table, leather pockets, mother of pearl sights, brass rosettes, newer felt, cue sticks, balls & rack included $1200. 352-870-0521     4-6-17-5-6
West Elm 5x7 Wool area rug
new condition no pets and non- smoking home 100.00 (352) 870 -0521      4-4-17-3-6Wrought Iron Buffetwith granite top
2x36x18 *one of kind* $600.  352 870 0521     
4-4-17-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real EstateTUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Designated drivers are the greatest
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design 
using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
**GatorWell is Hiring!**
Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatestIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patients
Call/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
ACROSS
1 Complain and
complain
5 Frolic in the field
9 Searched for
shells in theshallows
14 Where to find
Java
15 Governor
Kasich’s state
16 Be a ham17 Verizon invoice,
e.g.
19 Way to get there
20 Saint at a gate
21 Melt frost from,
as a windshield
23 Self-serve salad
site
24 Old World Style
sauce brand
26 The “c” in 
a + b = c
28 Govt. agency that
lends to start-ups
30 Second wife of
Henry VIII
34 “It’s __-brainer!”35 Humerus
neighbor
36 “__, black 
sheep ... ”
37 Pierced ear parts39 Gives approval to41 Horse’s harrumph42 Consider
carefully
44 Coup d’__
46 Opposite of SSW
47 Country divider
that allows
unrestrictedtravel
49 Free app
annoyances
50 __ Manor:
“Batman”mansion
51 Mani go-with53 Sound of disdain55 Tot’s reply to a
taunt
57 Shady retreat61 Appliance maker63 Sensitive elbow
area, and a literalhint to the circledletters
65 Flat hat
66 Spring blossom67 Moniker68 Perfumer Lauder69 Pinup Hayworth70 Raised, as cattleDOWN
1 “Li’l Abner”
creator Al
2 Arthur with three
Grand Slam
singles titles
3 Civil mayhem
4 Bakery-café
bread company
5 Steal from6 “Hmm, gotta
think about that ... ”
7 Eight furlongs8 Well-mannered9 “Mom’s gonna kill
us!”
10 Latin “I love”11 Molecular link
with two pairs ofelectrons sharedby two atoms
12 Sundance’s
sweetie
13 Bambi, for one
18 Hurler’s stat
22 __ salad25 Guy’s partner27 Actor Alda28 Nosy one29 “Button-Down
Mind” comedian
31 Not wearing a
thing
32 Tall tales33 “Big” comics kid
34 Dog food brand
35 Milk-souring
warning number
38 Novelist Ferber40 “Hit the gas!”43 Rice-A-__
45 “__ we alone?”
48 Colorful timber
tree
49 Online rent-a-
room option
52 Week segment53 Yankee Ruth54 Iowa college
town
56 TomKat’s
daughter
58 Wild hog59 “I’ll pick up the
tab”
60 Oboe or bassoon62 Marriage
announcementword
64 CIA cousin
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/04/1704/04/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 4, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Vote in our alligatorSports Twitter poll
What would you rename the Gators if you had to choose between Space-
men, Skunk Apes and Skeeters? Find us on Twitter @alligatorSports and let 
us know. Sam Horsﬁ  eld and the UF 
men's golf team brought home ﬁ  rst place from Nashville over the weekend. Read the story, pg. 16.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
In the late 1980s, Jim McElwain 
was starting to get his feet wet by 
coaching as an assistant at Eastern Washington. Around the same 
time, he was approached with an opportunity that could have 
altered the course of his career.
McElwain, a lifelong basketball 
fan, enjoyed attending games at Gonzaga University just 30 min-
utes north of EWU, and over time he developed a relationship with 
then-Bulldogs head coach Dan 
Fitzgerald.
In 1988, Fitzgerald had an opening on his staff and contacted McElwain, asking if he was inter-ested in coaching basketball.
“It was one of those deals,” 
McElwain said. “We were really good friends. I spent a lot of time (there) when Fitz was the head coach.”
While McElwain obviously de-
clined the offer, he continued to watch the program’s development from afar over the next three de-cades and on Monday morning ex-pressed pride for the team ahead 
of its ﬁ  rst-ever appearance in the 
national championship game.
“I’m just happy,” he said. 
“How far they’ve come from those 
days is something that’s pretty 
special.”
With Florida’s Spring game less 
than a week away, however, all of McElwain’s energy is focused on the team he did choose to coach.
For the third week in a row, 
McElwain said he was pleased 
with the continued progression of 
the offensive line.
Rising junior Martez Ivey is 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
There was nothing Alicia Boren 
could do but watch.
The sophomore hit a perfect 
handstand on the bars and then 
held it as her arms started to shake.
As she looked up, they gave out 
underneath her. She twisted back-wards, managing somehow to stay on the bars.
But the damage was done. She 
only scored a 9.425.
It was an uncharacteristic mis-
take for Boren, who has competed all-around in every meet this sea-son. It wasn't the way she wanted to start regionals off, individually or for her team.
She didn’t have time to dwell 
on a missed opportunity, though, as minutes later it was her turn on beam in the Gators' second rotation.
It’s an event that Florida 
struggled with throughout the regular season, but one that Boren had been consistent on in nearly every meet.
This time, she delivered.She stuck her landing, sealing 
a score of 9.875, the second-best score of the night for the Gators on the beam, and ran toward her teammates with a huge grin on her face.
“I was really excited and really 
happy that I could get back to helping my team,” Boren said following the meet.
The ability to move on and per-
form at a high level after mistakes has been a strength for the Gators this season.
When junior Alex McMurtry 
fell off the bars against Missouri on Feb. 24, she rallied back with a perfect 10 on ﬂ  oor.
When junior Kennedy Baker 
wobbled on beam, barely avoiding a fall against Auburn on Jan. 27, she redeemed herself with a per-fect 10 on ﬂ  oor in the last routine of the night.
And when freshman Rachel 
Gowey fell off the beam against Missouri, she delivered a 9.85 on ﬂ  oor, just .025 away from her career best, in the next rotation.
“Our motto this year is ‘The 
Story Continues,'” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said on Monday. “If you’re making mistakes, you let it go and move forward. And really I feel that the team did a great job in handling that this last competition.”
With fewer than two weeks un-
til the NCAA Championship semi-ﬁ  nals, the Gators can’t afford any mistakes if they want to advance to the Super Six.
If they do have to count a fall, 
however, the Gators will continue to do what they have done the en-tire season: move past it and focus on the next routine.
And the athletes on the side-
line will continue to support their teammates after a mistake.
“It’s a family,” Rowland said. 
“That’s how they train in the gym, and that’s how they have carried it over to the competition.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org Mystery QB separating himself from the rest
 'The story continues': UF gymnastics moving forwardUsually the NBA’s annual 
MVP race is fairly clear 
cut. 
Each year, there are a 
handful of players who 
are deﬁ  nitely deserving. Of that 
batch, maybe there are two or 
three who really stand out. 
And then there’s the frontrunner 
who everybody knows will win.
But not this year.
Statistically speaking, this has 
been one of the wildest years in 
league history.
Take, for instance, this ex-
ample: This season, the NBA tied the record for most individual 50-point games (eight) in league history.
And that was back in January.It’s safe to say there are a 
number of highly qualiﬁ  ed players who can bring home this year’s MVP trophy, and choosing just one may prove to be one of the hardest decisions in recent memory. 
Here are the likely candidates:
1. Russell Westbrook, guard, 
Oklahoma City Thunder
In my eyes, Westbrook is the 
favorite. 
And it’s pretty clear why: The 
dude is averaging a triple-double.
No, that wasn’t a typo. West-
brook is averaging 31.9 points, 
10.4 assists and 10.6 rebounds per game. That’s completely ridicu-lous, even for a super-athletic pro-fessional basketball player who creates a highlight reel every time he steps out onto the court.
Westbrook is probably the 
biggest crowd-drawing superstar in the NBA right now, especially while leading the Thunder (43-33) to an improbable playoff berth after former All-Star teammate  Who should 
win the NBA 
MVP race?
Alligator File Photo
Feleipe Franks drops back to pass during the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut. Franks threw three interceptions in the game. 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14IT'S COHEN DOWN
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbNOTEBOOK
“He'll be a factor," he said of 
freshman Kemore Gamble. "As 
of right now, he'll be playing."
Jim McElwain
Football coach14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
The Independent Florida Alligator would 
like to thank all the donors who made 
contributions through The Amazing Give. Your support means a great deal to us, as do the kind comments you made. We would also like to thank The Amazing Give and The Community Foundation of North Central Florida for their truly amazing organization of the event. This was our ﬁrst year participating, and we really enjoyed being a part of The Amazing Give.THE
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR SUPPORT
TAKING CARE 
OF BUSINESS
352-226-3879
tcbautosinc.com
2027 NE 27th AveAUTO SALES
by appointment onlymoving from guard to tackle in 2017 — where 
he'll be tasked with slowing down quicker de-fensive ends — and has done a “really great 
job” so far, according to McElwain. He also 
mentioned that rising redshirt freshman Brett Heggie has “come a long ways as well” on the interior offensive line.
At tight end, early enrollee Kemore Gamble 
has wowed coaches with his hand-eye coordi-nation and has already gained the conﬁ  dence of McElwain to be a contributor come Septem-ber.
“He’ll be a factor,” Florida’s head coach 
said. “As of right now, he’ll be playing.”
 Unnamed quarterback beginning to sep-
arate himself from the pack
One interesting revelation that McElwain 
alluded to on Monday is that a favorite is beginning to emerge in Florida’s quarterback competition.
Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask are viewed 
as the two frontrunners to win the starting job with Austin Appleby having graduated and Luke Del Rio still recovering from shoulder 
surgery.
Neither quarterback put forth earth-shatter-
ing performances in last season’s Spring game, 
with Franks throwing three interceptions and completing 5-of-11 passes for 58 yards and 
a touchdown, while Trask completed 4-of-7 
passes for 63 yards.
McElwain wouldn’t reveal which player 
was beginning to separate himself but stated that Friday’s Orange and Blue Debut should provide a good indicator as to who it might be.
“We should know a lot. I think it’s starting 
to sort itself out. The natural question is, ‘Well, what’s sorting itself out?’ You’ll ﬁ  nd out.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg.13Heggie has 'come 
a long ways 'Kevin Durant left in free agency last summer. 
If Westbrook continues on his current pace, he’ll 
become just the second player in NBA history to average 
a triple-double. 
The ﬁ  rst? Oscar Robertson during the 1961-1962 
season.
He was pretty good, right?
2. James Harden, guard, Houston Rockets
Second place goes to Harden, who has had to com-
pletely reinvent himself to lead the Rockets (52-25) to a 
third seed in a loaded Western Conference.
Harden has always been one of the NBA’s most proliﬁ  c 
scorers. But this season, with a new head coach and a 
new offensive scheme, Harden has played more at point 
guard, distributing the ball to his teammates and ensuring 
Houston’s offense runs smoothly.
And he’s proven — yet again — that he’s a legit MVP 
candidate.
He’s averaging 29.2 points, 11.2 assists and 8.1 re-
bounds per game, a huge increase from his 7.5 assists per 
game last season.
Plus, he’s doing it all with a gross, bushy beard. That 
can’t be easy.
3. LeBron James, forward, Cleveland CavaliersI am of the opinion that LeBron should always be in 
the MVP conversation. And, in reality, he should prob-
ably win it. Every. Damn. Year.
The 6-foot-8, 249-pound three-time NBA Champion is 
undisputedly the best basketball player on the planet, and 
has won the MVP award four times. He is the sole rea-
son the Cavaliers won the title last year, and why they’re 
even a lock for the playoffs this year. 
I’ll just say it: Without LeBron, would the Cavs even 
make the playoffs? (Fight me, emailers.)
So, yes, he’s really good. He’s averaging 26.3 points, 
8.7 assists and 8.5 rebounds per game this season.
But how boring would it be if LeBron won it every 
year?
That’s why he ﬁ  nishes in third. Everyone knows how good LeBron is. And in a league 
where Westbrook may end the season averaging a triple-double, The King will probably have to take a back seat to the younger generation.
Also receiving votes: Kawhi Leonard, forward, San Antonio Spurs.Isaiah Thomas, guard, Boston Celtics. COLUMN,  from pg.13
The Associated Press
Oklahoma City Thunder guard Russell Westbrook shoots during a game on April 2, 2017. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15.
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The Gators women’s golf team 
was housed by a local family — the 
Bryants — during the second an-nual Clemson Invitational over the weekend. However, that was the extent of all hospitality expressed toward UF during its stay. 
The Gators were unceremoni-
ously dropped from a tie for second 
into sole possession of third place 
during the final round of the com-
petition when FSU pounced to take both the tournament and Florida’s reigning-champion status.
That’s in the past, though, and 
coach Emily Glaser is not one to dwell on what’s already happened unless it’s being used as a learning experience.
“I’m pleased that we had those 
experiences,” Glaser said at a press conference Monday morning. “I think at this point, the learning that we’re doing is going to serve 
us well in the postseason just as 
much as the winning is.”
This process of doing, then 
learning, then doing again has been the focal point to the Gators’ 
success this year, and Glaser has never been one to shy away from talking about the weaknesses of her team. In the aftermath of the past weekend, things were no dif-ferent for the fifth-year coach.
“(Sunday), probably just a 
few too many mistakes that kept us from catching Florida State,” Glaser said. 
“We had to count a couple dou-
bles (double bogeys) in our team score. I know we had a couple of three-putts coming down the stretch. Just some little things that potentially got a little ahead of our-selves coming in, and it cost us the tournament.”
One of the brighter spots for the 
Gators in Sunset, South Carolina, was senior Maria Torres, who post-ed a 7 under for the tournament, good enough for a tie for second among all golfers. 
The Puerto Rico native has been 
the workhorse for the Gators this Spring, placing in the top 10 in all but one tournament and achieving a top-two finish for the third con-secutive tournament after winning at the Briar’s Creek Invitational and the SunTrust Gator Invitational.
“Just some fantastic play in the 
past month,” Glaser said of her first-ever recruit at UF. “Really putting it together… just some consistent play that we need going into the postseason.”
Just because the Gators can 
afford to look forward to the postseason does not mean, however, that they can let up their efforts. UF goes into the SEC Championship as one of five teams in the top 15, with Alabama taking over the No. 1 spot in the nation from Stanford in the past week. 
Glaser said that she intends 
to emphasize the lessons learned from the Clemson Invitational to prepare her players.
“We know that that experience 
is invaluable,” Glaser said. “When we get to the SEC Championship...it’s going to be a very similar type of feeling. I’m really looking to see how we learn from (Sunday).”
@morganmcmuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.org
Gators using sting of defeat to prepare for SEC Championship
Alligator File Photo
Karolina Vlckova, right, high-fives coach Emily Glaser during the 2015 Gator SunTrust Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
WHERE UF’S TEAMS RANK
Baseball: No. 8
Men’s T ennis: No. 12 
Women’s T ennis: No. 1Men’s Golf: No. 6Women’s Golf: No. 6Gymnastics: No. 3Lacrosse: No. 3
Softball: No. 2
Men’s Track and Field: No. 1Women’s Track and Field: No. 516   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 2017
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Gordon Neale stepped up to a 25-foot putt on 
the 18th hole. In front of a large pro-Vanderbilt 
crowd, Neale pulled back his putter and drained the shot for an eagle. Teammate Alejandro Tosti let out a huge yell that caught the attention of 
the Commodore crowd. And even though coach 
J.C. Deacon couldn’t hear the yell, he said the players were talking about it on the way to the airport.
“I was down back on 17 with Sam (Hors-
ﬁ  eld), so I was probably about a mile away,” Deacon said. “But I heard about it. The guys were loving it. They were laughing about it after the round. Ali (Tosti) was telling the story and 
he couldn’t stop laughing.”
The Gators have a lot to smile about after tak-
ing ﬁ  rst place in a tournament for the ﬁ  fth time 
this year on Sunday. Florida shot 13 under on its way to the win to close out the regular season.
“Amazing weekend. No other way to put 
it,” Deacon said. “This team is a championship team, and they’re ﬁ  nding ways to win, which is a great sign. Especially this time of year. But 
yesterday was just one of the coolest days I’ve 
ever had as a coach. There was just kind of a conﬁ  dence in all ﬁ  ve of the guys.”
While Deacon was away from Neale and 
Tosti, he was watching Sam Horsﬁ  eld, the soph-omore from Davenport, Florida, work his own magic on the ﬁ  nal two holes. Horsﬁ  eld birdied 17 and 18 to pull ahead of the leaders and win the individual title by two strokes. On the 18th, 
Horsﬁ  eld hit a wedge to put the ball within four 
to ﬁ  ve feet of the hole. When he asked Deacon about what he had to do, Deacon said he needed to make the shot to win.
“He’s clutch,” Deacon said. “You know, if 
we’ve got a tournament on the line, you want to have it in Sam’s hands. You know he’s going to make it happen.”
In a couple of weeks, the Gators will make a 
trip to St. Simons Island, Georgia, to compete in the SEC Championship on April 21. Until then, Deacon hopes his players will enjoy the time off.
“We need some rest. Hopefully the guys are 
gonna take in the Masters this weekend,” Dea-con said. “So hopefully the guys will put their feet up a little bit and watch that. As a kid, that always really motivated me, watching those guys. So I hope our guys will take some time to 
do that.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org Deacon reﬂ  ects on ‘amazing 
weekend’ at Mason Rudolph
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Nineteen games into the sea-
son, Roland Thornqvist doesn’t 
have his lineup ﬁ  gured out. 
He said the Gators are so deep 
that it really depends on how 
they’re doing that particular week. 
This past week, with two players out with the ﬂ  u and very little practice, Thornqvist was forced to make a change. 
While multiple players shifted 
positions this weekend, one stole the show. Junior Josie Kuhlman has mainly played on Court 4 this season but was promoted to Court 2 to accommodate the team’s sick 
players. After her performance 
this weekend, Thornqvist is using her dominance as an example for the rest of the team.
“That was the best tennis I’ve 
seen played on our courts in a few years, really,” Thornqvist said. “I’m really proud of Josie and what she’s doing, and it’s really 
helping us.”
It’s not just Kuhlman’s perfor-mance Thorn-
qvist is high-lighting. He described her 
freshman year 
as ﬂ  awless, but 
said she was dis-appointed with her sophomore year. Now a ju-
nior, Thornqvist said she’s com-peting at her highest level yet, so he wants to use her determination 
and grit to show his team that 
hard work pays off.“(She) never wavered in her 
commitment to improving,” he said. “She’s reaping the reward of all her hard work throughout 
these three years. And not just 
when things go our way. She worked just as tirelessly last year, if not more so.”
Kuhlman’s attitude during 
practice is another thing Thorn-qvist wants his team to learn from her. He said the team’s habits at practice are sometimes spotty, and 
that’s something he would like to 
change. In a brutal SEC season, practice really can mean every-thing, and he said this is where Kuhlman comes in yet again. 
“On a long enough time scale, 
everything reverts back to the mean,” Thornqvist said. “The way to push the mean forward is to practice well. It doesn’t just hap-
pen on Friday nights and Sundays. 
You’ve got to do it in practice ev-ery week. Players like Josie get that.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org 
Women’s tennis gets  dominance, discipline from Kuhlman
Kuhlman
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Gordon Neale swings an iron during the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 18.
