We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 162 THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
Who was Florida’s best senior of 
2016-2017?
See which seniors were deemed the best by alligatorSports this season, pg. 14‘Old Joe’ statue to be removed
A Confederate group has 60 days to pick it up, pg. 4
Crime round-up
DUI, battery and fraud im Gainesville, pg. 5Alligator movie recommendation
Why you should see “The Room,” pg. 10
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After weeks of tense back and 
forth between students and faculty, 
UF’s Institute of Black Culture and Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures will remain two separate buildings. 
At the end of a public meeting 
Tuesday, four core committee mem-bers for Multicultural and Diversity Affairs on the IBC and the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures, or La Ca-
sita, renovations agreed to “restart” 
the project. 
MCDA will abandon its originally proposed “U” shaped joint building 
plan and work with architects on a new design for two separate houses, said MCDA executive director Will Atkins. 
“We wanted to make sure that 
students felt heard,” Atkins said.
Plans for renovating the IBC and 
La Casita started in April 2016, when it was announced that the institutes would be torn down and rebuilt due to a presence of mold, termites, moisture and structural damage, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
Last week, in an effort to protest 
the possible “U” shaped building, about 100 students from both the IBC and La Casita marched from Turlington Plaza to the Reitz Union, where a renovation advisory com-mittee meeting was taking place. 
Latinx and black student activists 
opposed to the conjoined building 
plan — arguing the “U” shape would 
merge cultures as opposed to honor-ing the two separate communities — created a Facebook page titled “No La IBCita.” In the span of 14 days, the page garnered more than 600 likes.
On Tuesday, less than a week 
after the “No La IBCita” movement held its march, the four committee members were in full agreement on starting over with a new plan for two houses.  
“Peace is really important for 
me,” Atkins said. “What’s needed for the community right now is for 
students to feel heard and to feel af-
ﬁ  rmed and to feel like the university is taking their concerns very, very seriously.”
Mary Kay Carodine, the assistant 
vice president for Student Affairs, mentioned that a major downside in keeping two separate houses would be reduced space for students to study, given the money MCDA has available to construct the sites. 
UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
said in an email that MCDA’s budget for the project is $5.3 million.
Robert Hatker, who will oversee 
construction work on the IBC and La 
Casita renovations, said from a con-
struction standpoint, the “U” shaped building would be the most cost ef-fective. 
He said constructing two individ-
ual buildings, installing staircases, installing elevators and installing bathrooms into each will take away 
The IBC and La Casita will remain two separate buildings
SEE MCDA,  PAGE 4
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Ned Comm was thrilled when he 
found out his son Nolan wouldn’t have to pay for tuition or fees at UF because of the newest update to the Bright Futures Scholarship Program.
The scholarship program will 
now pay 100 percent of tuition and fees for students who are Florida Academic Scholars, the highest level of Bright Futures, and provide $300 for textbooks.However, this change will only 
apply for the 2017-18 school year.
“As a taxpayer and a parent 
who’s affected by this, I was not happy years ago when Bright Fu-
tures was reduced from its original 
intent, which was to provide afford-able education to a wide number of people” Comm said. 
Comm, a UF alumnus, said he 
feels like Bright Futures has done students a disservice over the last few years by making it harder for students to qualify while simultane-ously decreasing the amount Bright Futures gives out each year.
The recent change, which was 
announced by UF on July 14, is ex-pected to affect more than 16,000 
UF students in the upcoming school 
year, wrote university spokesperson Steve Orlando in an email.
“For the 2017-18 award year 
(Fall/Spring) Bright Futures recipi-ents at the Academic Scholar level will receive a total award of approxi-mately $6,980,” Orlando said. “This represents a $3,890 increase over the original $3,090.”
While some are discouraged 
about the temporary change, Austin Gordon, a UF biology sophomore, said he is excited college is going to 
be more affordable for him and his 
family.
“I was really upset to hear that 
Rick Scott vetoed the bill that would have made this increase permanent, but I’m holding out hope that legisla-tors will opt to include the increase in funding in their future budgets,” the 19-year-old said.Samantha Garcia, a UF computer 
science sophomore, said she would have had to take out a $5,000 loan this year if it weren’t for the Bright Futures changes.
“One hundred percent is a lot, 
and that’s how much it should be, because that’s what you earned from doing well in school, right?” the 18-year-old said. “Not just 80 percent.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
Bright Futures to pay 100 percent for highest qualiﬁ  ersDavid Hoffman / Alligator Staff
The Standard at Gainesville apartments is set to open on Aug. 18 for move-ins. With 
many UF students moving back to Gainesville on Aug. 7 for sorority recruitment, some will have to ﬁ  nd temporary housing options elsewhere.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Allison Bauer moves back to 
Gainesville on Aug. 7 for sorority recruit-
ment, she won’t have access to her apart-
ment. 
Instead, the 18-year-old UF political 
science sophomore will have to live with 
her best friend and Kappa Delta Sorority 
sister for more than a week, at least.
Back in October, Bauer signed a lease 
with The Standard at Gainesville. Unfor-
tunately for her, the 10-story complex on the corner of West University Avenue 
and Northwest 13th Street won’t open for 
move-ins until Aug. 18, just three days before UF classes begin. 
“Everyone does recruitment around 
that time,” Bauer said. “It’s deﬁ  nitely poor planning on their part.” 
Bauer said at least 30 of her sorority 
sisters who signed leases with The Stan-dard for Fall are in the same situation 
she is. Before moving into the building, which will open 1,200 bedrooms for new residents come Fall, they must ﬁ  nd tem-
porary housing.
The Aug. 18 move-in date is on sched-
ule with The Standard’s original timeline. 
Landmark Properties, the company that 
develops The Standard complexes across the U.S., said in January they expected an August opening date, according to Al-ligator archives.
In the past, the property company has 
been behind on other projects in Boone, North Carolina, and Knoxville, Tennes-see, sending many student residents 
to nearby hotels and apartments while 
the company ﬁ  nished construction past deadline, the Knoxville News Sentinel re-ported. 
The Standard is set to provide on-site 
amenities including a parking garage for its residents, a Target Express on the ground level — with a Starbucks and CVS store inside the Target Express — and an Students make arrangements for move-in at The Standard
SEE STANDARD,  PAGE 3
Who was Florida’s best senior of 
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The Wickerman’ at the 
Hippodrome
See “The Wickerman” at the Hippodrome State Theatre to-day at 7:45 p.m., Friday and Saturday at 5:30 p.m. and Sunday at 1:00 p.m. This film is a definitive version of Robin Hardy’s thriller of pagan wor-
shippers on a remote Scottish is-
land. Seen for decades, the new Studio Canal restoration is the culmination of a long search for the complete director’s cut. For more information, visit thehipp.org/event/the-wickerman.
Weekly Bible study on deliver-
ance through discipleshipElnathan of Haven of Hope, located at 321 SE 48th St., will sponsor a weekly Bible study. This study will focus on deliv-erance through discipleship. For more information call 352-377-8669, text 352-213-2147 or 
email hutchinsonjoanna12@
gmail.com.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email 
 editor@alligator.org.
HIPPODROME THEATRE
25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GVILLE
352.375.4477 | THEHIPP.ORG
Foreve Plaid
 Leave your worries behind and come experience
an incredible evening of music, dancing and laughter 
with the Plaids! Live on stage with 8 shows a week!
Ask about our student disounts!
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 162THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Florida Department of Transportation concluded investigation
Alligator File Photo
After a monthslong investigation into The Standard at Gainesville’s parking garage, it was determined there 
was “no violation. ” Ofﬁ  cials originally worried the northeast corner of the structure jetted out too far.
AC Hotels by Marriott. 
Cody Nichelson, a Landmark 
Properties spokesperson, and Mi-
chael Hinton, a leasing consultant 
manager at The Standard, both 
declined to comment on the sta-
tus of the total project. 
In April, the Florida Depart-
ment of Transportation an-
nounced that The Standard’s 
parking garage structure was un-
der investigation because ofﬁ  cials were concerned the structure’s northeast corner jetted too far out from the property. 
However, last week the in-
vestigation was dropped, FDOT spokesperson Troy Roberts said.
“There was no violation we 
found,” Roberts said. 
While Bauer looks forward 
to living across the street from campus — and the rooftop pool she’ll have access to — she said the coming weeks are going to be tough.
Although the complex tech-
nically opens before the semes-ter begins, Bauer’s recruitment schedule with Kappa Delta is from 7 a.m. to midnight that day. 
She said along with most of her 
sisters, she’ll move into The Stan-dard on Aug. 21, after recruit-ment is ﬁ  nished. 
Bauer said she’s just glad one 
of her best friends was willing to take her in. Otherwise, she said, she’s not sure what she would have done. 
“I’m sure I’ll get through it,” 
Bauer said. “It’s just really stress-ful.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgSTANDARD,  from pg. 14   THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
money the institutes may need in 
the future. 
However, he said he has no per-
sonal stake in either plan. 
“Obviously, from the outpour-
ing of emotion and everything I feel it’s best to move forward with two separate institutes,” Hatker said. 
After the meeting, students and 
organizers who attended stepped out into the MCDA’s waiting room on the second level of the Reitz and immediately began discussing what comes next. While some were relieved upon 
hearing the news, they said they were still concerned about keeping 
MCDA accountable.
In an 11-day span in February, 
three MCDA directors announced 
their resignations, two of whom only held their positions for about seven months, according to Alli-gator archives. In the span of four years, 12 directors have resigned.
Gian Mattei, a student member 
representing La Casita on the reno-vations advisory committee, said he was pleased by the news but is still concerned about MCDA being forthcoming in the future.“A lot of the things that went 
on in that meeting was a lot of conversation,” the 18-year-old UF psychology sophomore said. “It’s very important that action is also taken.”
Adebola Adeboyin, a UF alum-
na who attended the meeting to represent herself and the African-American community, said she’s pleased by the news but wants to see MCDA stick to their commit-ments. 
“They’re going to start the pro-
cess over, and it’s going to take some time,” the 22-year-old said. 
“It’s action for me, it’s not words.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
MCDA,  from pg. 1New design in worksBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A one-sentence letter last week 
was the ﬁ  nal nail in the cofﬁ  n for 
“Old Joe.”  
The United Daughters of the Con-
federacy — a nationwide heritage 
group of Southern women — took 
ownership of the controversial Con-federate soldier statue, commonly referred to as “Old Joe,” last week. For the past 113 years, the statue has stood tall outside the Alachua County Administration Building in downtown Gainesville.
On May 23, the Alachua County 
Commissioners voted to remove 
“Old Joe” from its current location 
and offered it to the United Daugh-ters of the Confederacy, who origi-nally erected the statue in 1904. 
The board gave the Confederate 
group 60 days to respond. Fifty days later — on July 12 — they got their answer in the form of a six-word let-ter:
“We accept the Confederate Sol-
dier Statue.”
The Confederate heritage group has an additional 60 days to remove the statue from county grounds, Assistant County Manager Gina 
Peebles said. After the removal, the 
women may do whatever they wish with “Old Joe,” Peebles said.
The United Daughters of the Con-
federacy could not be reached for comment.
Peebles said that “replacement” 
art will ﬁ  ll the vacancy once “Old Joe” has left for good. On Aug. 16, 
Peebles will discuss ideas for the new 
artwork with the Art in Public Places Program, a ﬁ  ve-member board that recommends artwork to the County Commission on public projects. 
“Old Joe” was originally intended 
to commemorate those who fought for the Confederacy in the Civil War. To some, it was a symbol of a linger-ing racism. 
For those familiar with down-
town Gainesville, the statue was sometimes a source of serious com-munity tension.
On the same day the commis-
sioners voted to give the Daughters the statue, about 200 people gath-ered around the base of the statue in protest, where a Gainesville resident was arrested for spitting on a Presi-dent Donald Trump supporter, ac-
cording to Alligator archives. 
After their meeting with Peebles, 
the Art in Public Places Program will 
allow local artists to submit their ideas for the space. They will then narrow down the local submissions, and the County Commission will make the ultimate decision, Peebles said. 
“The artwork will reﬂ  ect the 
shared values of the city,” she said. 
‘Old Joe’ to be taken down, relocated by Confederate group
Timeline of Events
January 2017 
Institute of Black Culture (IBC) and Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures 
(La Casita) close to be rebuilt
February 2017
Three MCDA directors announce their resignations in a span of 11 days 
April 2017
MCDA permanently hires Will Atkins as the executive director; students begin petitioning the MCDA’s plan to merge the IBC and La Casita buildings
June 2017
MCDA hires Carl Simien as new director of Black Affairs; students continue to protest “La IBCita”
July 18, 2017
MCDA agrees to restart the IBC and La Casita projects, making them 
separate housesTHURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A former president of the Theta 
Chi Fraternity’s UF chapter was 
arrested early Friday morning for drunkenly driving his scooter on campus, University Police said. 
At about 2:30 a.m. Friday, po-
lice saw Shane Michael Hanney weaving within his lane on a blue scooter while driving on Southwest Second Avenue near the O’Connell 
Center, accord-
ing to a UPD ar-
rest report. 
Hanney, a 
21-year-old UF civil engineering senior, turned onto West Fra-ternity Drive and continued weaving in his lane be-fore he stopped about 3 feet past a stop sign, according to the report. 
Police pulled Hanney over, 
smelled a strong odor of alcohol and noticed his eyes were red. Ac-cording to the report, when they asked him where he had been earlier that night, Hanney replied, “Midtown.”
According to the report, after two tests, Hanney’s blood alcohol levels were .226 and .239 — both almost three times the legal limit 
of .08.
At about 4:40 a.m., Hanney was 
booked in the Alachua County Jail, 
where he was released Friday af-ternoon on his own recognizance. Hanney faces a DUI charge and has an arraignment set for Aug. 17, ac-cording to Alachua County court records.  
Hanney said he served as the 
president for UF’s Theta Chi last 
year. He declined to comment on 
the incident. 
UF Theta Chi is listed as one of 
26 chapters within UF’s Interfrater-nity Council.  
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
Former UF Theta Chi president charged with DUI on scooter
Hanney
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Monday 
after police said he followed a woman inside Walmart and pushed his groin against her butt.
Scarlette Cuevas was shopping at the 
Walmart Supercenter, 1800 NE 12th Ave., at about 9:50 a.m. when a man began follow-ing her while playing with his penis over his shorts, according to a GPD arrest report. 
When Cuevas stopped to grab an item 
down an aisle, 21-year-old Lavell Lorenzo Strong walked behind her and thrusted his groin against her, according to the report. 
A Walmart employee saw what happened and immediately called police. Police found Strong outside the store’s entrance. Accord-ing to the report, Strong ran away into nearby woods after police asked to speak with him. After about an hour of searching, police found Strong three blocks away from the store with a K-9 unit.
In July 2016, Strong was accused of grab-
bing a woman’s butt at the same Walmart, according to the report. 
Because the couple does not want to go 
through a long process, Cuevas’ husband said they won’t press charges.
As of press time, Strong remains in the 
Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $10,000 bond. He faces charges of battery, resisting 
an ofﬁ  cer and trespassing.GPD: Man thrusts groin on 
woman’s butt at Walmart
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville woman Tues-
day for helping a former UF Transportation 
and Parking Services employee with cashing fraudulent checks.
On March 13, University Police arrested 
Tiffany Robinson for issuing more than 1,000 unauthorized checks worth $8,401.75. 
According to a UPD report, Robinson cre-
ated 33 different fraudulent accounts and is-sued checks for returned parking decals and disputed parking citations that were overdue.
Police determined that Gainesville resident 
Shabree Harden traveled with Robinson and another individual — 34-year-old Herschel Walker — to deposit the fraudulent checks, according to the report. 
Harden, 31, cashed 23 of the checks, total-
ing $7,015.75, at locations including the Rose Food Store, a Chevron Stop and Shop in Haw-thorne and three Gainesville Publix stores, ac-cording to the report.
According to the report, Harden admitted to 
receiving and cashing checks from Robinson and Walker and to giving all the money back to them. 
Harden remains in the Alachua County Jail 
as of press time in lieu of a $15,000 bond. She faces charges of grand theft and fraud. Robin-son and Walker also remain in the jail as of press time and are being held on no bond. UPD: Woman aided former 
UF employee with fraudThe Alligator encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 162 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be 
withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 
450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Closed primaries 
are not good for 
America
As we’re sure you are aware, Florida is a closed primary 
state. This means that in order to vote in a primary elec-tion, Florida residents must be registered with a political party. It also means in the primaries, they are only able to vote for candidates running for a position within their 
registered party. In general elections, however, they are able to vote for any candidate in any party.
In our opinion, closed primary states need to be brought to 
an end. Not only are they restrictive and suppressive, but they further divide our nation by strengthening party identification.
When voters are forced to decide on a party to affiliate with, 
they become attached to that party. Of course, they do have the free will to vote for whoever they chose in the general election, but registering as one party or another does tend to cause most 
voters to develop a mentality that influences the way they vote. 
This bond people start to feel with their party has the power to influence voting patterns and impact overall election results.
Many people who vote for the first time don’t know much 
about politics. Thus, they often don’t know much about politi-cal parties or which one aligns most with their beliefs. A lot of the time, they end up choosing a party for the wrong reasons. It might be because their parents, significant other or friend support that party. Either way, these voters are commonly not thinking 
independently.
When a young person is just starting to explore the world of 
politics, they should be able to do so free of ties and regulations. 
They should be able to consider themselves an independent or bipartisan and still have the right to vote in a primary election. By forcing them to identify with a particular party, he or she lose the right to vote for candidates across the board they may want to support. Instead, they vote from the percentage of candidates they are allowed to vote for.
What’s more is sometimes even repeat voters still aren’t ex-
actly sure where they lie on the political spectrum. For many people, casting a vote is about a person, not a party. Plenty of well-educated voters find themselves falling somewhere in the middle. Denying these holistic thinkers the right to vote for can-didates they wish to support in the primary election is not only suppressive, but unjust. 
In addition to these restrictions closed primaries put on vot-
ing freedoms, these regulations also further divide our already 
disconnected nation.
As mentioned before, when voters are forced to identify with 
a specific party, they become more attached to that party. They 
think of themselves as a Republican, a Democrat or a third party. Not as an independent thinker. 
Even if you are registered with a party you don’t feel strong 
ties to, you often can’t help but get offended when you see a social media post calling your party ignorant. You can’t help but become angry when your distant relative rants about your party 
at the Thanksgiving dinner table. No matter the strength of your 
ties, you still become upset when someone challenges a part of who you are.
Especially after this last election cycle, people have been cling-
ing to their party ties. Americans become more divided every day, and closed primaries are only working to further separate us from our fellow citizens. 
While seeing an end to closed primaries is not the only solu-
tion our country needs to come together again, it is certainly a 
good start toward a more connected and tolerant country.Editorial
This week, I’d like to talk about a few his-
torical observations I’ve noticed in one of my classes this semester. Usually, I 
try not to have quasi-pointless and re-
dundant sentences like the one preced-
ing this, but it’s the only way I can think of to introduce such a notorious topic. What I’m 
going to be talking about will concern slavery 
in the U.S.
Now, if the word slavery triggers you or 
rouses your blood, then relax, or realize that you’re an adult now and an important part of being an adult is being 
able to talk and think about topics that make you uncom-
fortable. Regardless, I will not bring up touchy topics like the Confederate flag or the lasting effects of slavery. Like I said before, these are just observations, and I find them 
very interesting.
Back to my point. I’m taking a course essentially fo-
cused on U.S. history, culture, politics and things of that 
sort in the 19th century. We focus our attention on things like the Industrial Age, transcendentalism and abolition-
ism, among other topics — it’s not so much about time-
lines as it is about ideas. Recently, our class finished our first assigned text, Harriet E. Wilson’s “Our Nig: or, Sketches from the Life of a Free Black.” The book was 
originally published in 1859 — two years prior to the be-
ginning of the Civil War: a time when discussions of abol-ishing slavery were at their peak.
However, before we get into the meat and potatoes of 
this piece, let us sip our stew and savor our seasonings.
Wilson’s book is a fiction piece that is arguably more 
fact than fiction. The book is based on her life experienc-es, and the only fictional aspect present in the novel is that the names of the people she interacted with are changed 
to protect them and herself. Frado, Wilson’s character in 
the novel, is the daughter of a black man and a white woman. Frado is given to the Bellmonts, a rich white fam-ily, to be raised, as her own family can no lon-ger care for her.
While Frado may not be a slave — since 
she was born in the North and is free — as an indentured servant to the Bellmonts, she is treated like one. The antagonist of the story, Mrs. Bellmont, is a malignant and obstinate 
individual who cannot stomach the sight of a 
black person existing alongside white people. At any point in the story when she can, Mrs. 
Bellmont takes it upon herself to beat Frado in the most horrifying ways possible — a graphic and all too familiar 
image.
Since the story is based on Wilson’s life, it’s been dis-
covered in the following years that the Bellmonts were 
known and vocal abolitionists in real life. Yet, like many 
abolitionists at the time, the Bellmonts themselves ex-
pressed a confusing concern.  
This concern was that abolitionists wanted to abolish 
slavery in the South, but in the North, as exemplified by Mrs. Bellmonts daughter and spitting image, “I don’t want 
a n----- ‘round me.” Many abolitionists would cry for slav-
ery to be exempt but shiver at the idea of befriending, talking, sitting next to or even existing alongside a black person.
This is my observation, and still, after days of thinking 
about it, I’m perplexed.
Why ask for the bettering of people by law if you’re 
going to hurt them yourself?
What was the purpose of being pro-abolitionism but 
anti-black?
I can draw similarities to our current era, but for the life 
of me, I’m still so lost at this reasoning.
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays. Odd observations of the history of abolitionismColumn
James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
T oday at High Dive: 
Starting at 8 p.m., four pop-punk and alternative rock bands will 
play at the downtown venue, pg. 8Must-see movie: ‘The Room’
Get on the cult-ﬁ  lm bandwagon, pg. 10THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
Local lovers of soul have 
waited three months to welcome 
back a homegrown band to the 
stage — a band that arrived to 
the Gainesville music scene in late 2010, but whose aura, sound and je ne sais quoi is nostalgi-
cally reminiscent of 1963, even 
for those who consider themselves ‘90s kids.
On Friday, The Savants of Soul 
will headline at The Atlantic Night-
spot, located at 15 N. Main St., the 
ﬁ  rst time they have performed live since April. Retrolux and Whale Feral will join the 10-piece band 
as supporting acts starting at 9:30 
p.m., one hour after doors open.
The Savants of Soul will be per-
forming in Gainesville as part of a three-show hat trick, followed by 
performances in Jacksonville and 
Raleigh, North Carolina. The latter performance will be preceded by a trip to New York City to record 
their next single, “Dead Man Run-
ning,” which has reached its ﬁ  nal iteration and is ready for perma-nence. 
“We are going to Brooklyn to 
record with members of Charles Bradley and His Extraordinaires, which is crazy. After the death of Sharon Jones, I would be hard pressed to ﬁ  nd a name more sig-
niﬁ  cant in the world of soul mu-
sic, so it’s a great experience for us,” said Savants of Soul drummer Alexander Klausner.
Klausner said the band’s thrill 
for the opportunity is not without its nerves; the band will be record-
ing in analog, which dates back to 
the use of the phonograph and does not provide the wiggle room for mistakes that digital recording does.
“We’ve tried to get that analog 
sound through digital means but it’s not quite the real thing. We just keep telling ourselves, ‘Don’t 
screw up.’ If one person messes 
up, we have to start over,” Klaus-ner said. “The real challenge for us will be to play perfectly in sync while feeling that pressure.”
Klausner radiates gratitude 
when he speaks about the band label Swamp Records’ “excellent launch pad.” The label lets UF 
students run the show with sim-
ply the reward of a love for music, but the Brooklyn studio recording will kick off a new wave for The Savants of Soul. 
Soon after the side-A track is 
ﬁ  nished, the band plans to ﬁ  lm a 
music video and back it with good 
publicity “to see who’s interested and see what kind of media atten-tion we can get with the release,” 
Klausner said. 
From there, it’s up to the in-
dustry to take The Savants of Soul 
to the next step.
“We’re always going to be ex-
cited and blessed and fortunate to be able to play for the Gainesville crowd and be a part of this scene,” Klausner said. “All the acts (play-
ing Friday) are really spectacular-
ly good. They set the bar high for Gainesville music.”
Five years ago, Anna James 
and Mäynard Shaye met on Craig-
slist when Shaye posted an ad looking to form an indie band. 
The age difference between the 
two put a pause on their plans 
until they met again in 2015 at a party and launched Retrolux, said 
James, the band’s vocalist. 
Today, the band joins The Sa-
vants of Sound at Swamp Records 
as label mates, and the show will 
also be their ﬁ  rst performance in 
three months, as they took the summer off to work on their sec-ond extended play, which will fol-low their debut, “Real Life.” 
“We are so stoked about this 
show and our upcoming EP. We’ve got a lot of plans for these upcoming months, and I can’t 
wait to get back onto the scene,” 
said Shaye, who launches all sam-ples and plays keys for the band.
“We are also working on en-
hancing our performances with 
more visual art. We hope to fol-
low this time with bigger shows and eventually, a tour,” James added.
Retrolux will play at High Dive, 
located at 210 SW Second Ave., with the band ﬂ  ipturn on Aug. 24 
at 9:30 p.m.
There is no shortage of up-and-
coming artists in Gainesville, and 
Whale Feral, the ﬁ  rst performance 
on Friday’s set list, is focused on 
live music as their main feature as they don’t identify with any par-ticular genre. 
“We put our focus more on 
having a cohesive sound than fo-cusing on a genre, but if we have to pick, we are deﬁ  nitely descend-ed from the Grateful Dead and 
Allman Brothers branch of music, 
which especially in the Dead’s case, means a little of everything,” said lead guitarist and vocalist 
Matt Urban. He said the band’s main focus 
is playing live rather than under a 
label. He said they promise a dif-ferent experience for every show, 
which includes different set lists 
and improvisations.  
David Havens on drums, Will 
Bethea on bass and Ricky Cagno 
on rhythm guitar and vocals join 
Urban this Friday. The band also plays back-to-back weekly sets at First Magnitude Brewing Compa-ny, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., 
every Sunday from 5:30 p.m. to 9 
p.m. 
Doors open Friday at 8:30 p.m. 
at The Atlantic Nightspot. Tickets 
can be found at showclix.com for 
$8 and are $10 at the door. The show is welcome to music fans ages 18 and older. The Savants of Soul to perform Friday night at The Atlantic 
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Savants of Soul, who arrived to the Gainesville music scene in late 2010, will delight local soul music lovers at The 
Atlantic on Friday night. Friday will be the first time the group has performed live since April.
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
High Dive will host four Florida-
based rock bands tonight. The bands 
scheduled to perform are ﬂ  ipturn, 
from Fernandina Beach; Brightside, 
based out of Tallahassee; Colours, 
from Sarasota; and Gainesville’s 
own Arrows in Action. 
The bands range from pop-punk 
to alternative rock, with a few varia-
tions in between. And, despite a dif-
ference in online fan-base size, the 
core values and practices the bands 
follow are similar.  
Brightside, who has a pop/rock 
sound, was formed about 2 1/2 
ago. Jake Long, the band’s vocalist 
and guitarist, said that members of 
the group were playing in different 
bands before they decided that it 
would be better to play together.
“I feel like we ﬁ  nally found a 
group of people who all really want-ed to make the band their No. 1 pri-ority and make it happen,” he said. 
For the band, playing and practic-
ing is a full-time job. Although most 
of the bandmates have other side 
work that they do, they meet every day of the week. 
Brightside, who is playing one 
of the headlining slots for today’s 
show, is stopping in Gainesville as 
part of an eight-stop summer tour. 
Arrows in Action, who will be 
playing an opening slot at the show as well, also considers playing and 
practicing to be a full-time gig. For 
them, putting their time and money into their band is how they know 
they’re serious, said vocalist and gui-
tarist Victor Viramontes-Pattison. Viramontes-Pattison said writing 
from a young adult’s perspective is 
something he cherishes because of 
its relatability among listeners. 
“I feel like this is a good time 
frame to be writing about, because so many people go through this pe-riod in their life (of) getting into the workplace (and) ﬁ  guring out what 
you want to do,” he said. 
Viramontes-Pattison said al-
though Arrows in Action has a pop-
punk style, the members would like 
to eventually expand their sound to 
avoid being pigeonholed into one 
particular genre. 
He said even though the lyrics 
mostly come from him, the songwrit-ing process is a group effort for the 
band. Viramontes-Pattison brings his 
songs to drummer Jesse Frimmel for 
critique and later Adrian De Zayas, a vocalist and guitarist, will interject 
different ideas. 
“It’s a whole process, and some-
times it does take a little bit, but we like to give our music time to ma-
ture,” he said. “We don’t like to rush 
it.”
Although Arrows in Action will 
be opening up for Brightside tonight, 
both bands share a similar creative process. Brightside band members 
bring in different song ideas and col-
laborate with each other. 
Will Dunaway, Brightside’s bass 
player, said because the members have their own experiences with 
instruments and different genres, 
they’re able to add interesting riffs and melodies that give the songs 
personality. 
Most of the members have their 
own musical interests and experienc-es outside of the band, which adds to 
the compositeness of its music. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a really organic 
process for all ﬁ  ve of us,” Dunaway said. “I think at the end of it what 
we’re really interested in is making 
music people can connect to and get interested in right away.”
Viramontes-Pattison said an in-
ward focus is what helps him when it comes to songwriting. 
“It kind of makes you … a hermit. 
You kind of hyper focus on (what) 
sound you want or music you want,” 
Viramontes-Pattison said.
While an inward focus is good, 
having those outside inﬂ  uences are 
also needed when making music. 
For Brightside drummer Cory Clark, 
being in nature helps bring about in-
spiration for ideas about songs and 
life. 
“I think of a lot of parts when 
I’m outside (in) nature” he said. “It clears my mind.”
Both bands are planning for the 
future with tours and new music. 
Brightside hopes to expand touring 
through the rest of the U.S.
“Our main goal right now is to 
just get farther and farther away,” 
Long said.
For Arrows in Action, playing dif-
ferent gigs and releasing new music is what’s on the horizon. 
“Our band is here for the indeﬁ  -
nite future. We have no plans to stop,” Viramontes-Pattison said.
For today’s show, doors will open 
at 8 p.m., and the show will be from 8:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. Tickets are 
$7 in advance and $9 at the door, 
with a $3 under 21 fee. 
  Four rising Florida bands to perform at High Dive 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The bands Brightside, Colours, ﬂ  ipturn and Arrows in 
Action will perform at High Dive today at 8 p.m. Tickets are $7 in advance and $9 at the door with a $3 fee for those who are under the age of 21.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.org
3717 NW 13th Street  •  352-372-8387shoresanhosp.comVACCINE CLINIC
Friday, July 28 
8 am - 8 pm
Reserve your dog’s
appointment today!
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsBy Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Even though summer is soon 
coming to an end, there’s still 
so much to do. Whether you are 
trying to check off items from a 
bucket list or just want to make a few more memories, we’ve got you covered. Here are some 
events throughout the rest of 
July (and beginning of August) to help you make the most of it.Where to spend the rest of your summer in Gainesville
JULY 21 @ 6 p.m. to JULY 23 @ 9 p.m.
Gainesville Underground Theatre Festival, or 
GUTFest, performance art festivalWhere: multiple venues in downtown Gainesville
JULY 24 @ 7 p.m. & JULY 25 @ 10:30 p.m.
“Summer Shakes” 2017Where: Hippodrome State Theatre, located at 25 SE Second PlaceJULY 21 
Wax Wings at “Free Fridays” concert seriesWhere: Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.JULY 23 
FEST Wrestling presents: Xmas in JulyWhere: Eight-Seconds Gainesville, located at 201 W. University Ave., from 4 p.m.to 8:30 p.m.JULY 28 to JULY 30 
The Top and Atlantic Anniversary BlowoutWhere: The Atlantic, located at 15 N. Main St., at 8 p.m.
JULY 28 to JULY 30 
Raekwon of Wu-Tang Clan’s The Wild TourWhere: High Dive from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m.
AUGUST 6
Kitten YogaWhere: Flow Space, located at 117 NW 16th Ave., from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.JULY 25 
Tuesday Stand-Up Comedy ShowcaseWhere: The Midnight, located at 223 S. Main St., from 8:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.Zookeeper DayWhere: Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo, located at 3000 NW 83rd St., from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally - Summer B editionWhere: High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m.JULY 22 
JULY 21 @ 6 p.m. to JULY 23 @ 9 p.m.
Gainesville Underground Theatre Festival, or 
GUTFest, performance art festival
Where: multiple venues in downtown Gainesville
JULY 24 @ 7 p.m. & JULY 25 @ 10:30 p.m.
“Summer Shakes” 2017
Where: Hippodrome State Theatre, located at 25 
SE Second PlaceJULY 21 
Wax Wings at “Free Fridays” concert series
Where: Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 
111 E. University Ave., from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.JULY 23 
FEST Wrestling presents: Xmas in July
Where: Eight-Seconds Gainesville, located at 201 
W. University Ave., from 4 p.m.to 8:30 p.m.JULY 28 to JULY 30 
The Top and Atlantic Anniversary Blowout
Where: The Atlantic, located at 15 N. Main St., at 
8 p.m.
JULY 28 to JULY 30 
Raekwon of Wu-Tang Clan’s The Wild Tour
Where: High Dive from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m.
AUGUST 6
Kitten Yoga
Where: Flow Space, located at 117 NW 16th 
Ave., from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.JULY 25 
Tuesday Stand-Up Comedy Showcase
Where: The Midnight, located at 223 S. Main St., 
from 8:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.Zookeeper Day
Where: Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo, located 
at 3000 NW 83rd St., from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally - 
Summer B edition
Where: High Dive, located at 210 SW Second 
Ave., from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m.JULY 22 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
“I did not hit her. I did naht! Oh, hi 
Mark.”
For those of you who don’t know the 
origin of this quote, it’s from the 2003 
cult-classic ﬁ  lm “The Room,” written, 
directed, produced by and starring Tom-
my Wiseau.
Despite its abysmal rating on Rotten 
Tomatoes, IMDb and across the internet, 
this ﬁ  lm is ﬁ  nally getting another crack 
at the public eye. Sort of.  
The trailer for James Franco’s movie 
“The Disaster Artist,” based on the book of the same name that chronicled the making of “The Room,” was released 
this week. 
The trailer shows Franco, who por-
trays Wiseau, struggling to get through a scene where he emerges onto the roof-
top, attempting to say the lines, “I did not hit her. It’s not true. It’s bull----. I 
did not hit her. I did not. Oh, hi Mark.” 
Eventually, Franco says the line in 
perhaps the most iconic way possible, changing ﬁ  lm history forever. The ﬁ  lm 
also stars Seth Rogen, Dave Franco, Josh Hutcherson, Hannibal Buress and Zac 
Efron. 
“The Room” follows the life of a suc-
cessful banker named Johnny living in San Francisco with his ﬁ  ancée Lisa. 
Johnny’s best friend, Mark, ends up hav-ing an affair with Lisa, which is the crux of the whole ﬁ  lm. Other important characters include 
Claudette, Lisa’s mother, and Denny, 
Johnny and Lisa’s neighbor. 
The overall plot isn’t necessarily im-
portant. The ﬁ  lm doesn’t hold viewers’ attention with a riveting story, full of in-
tricate plot lines that tie up neatly before the credits roll. 
In fact, it’s quite the opposite — what 
the ﬁ  lm provides is stilted acting, cringe-worthy sex scenes and laughable non se-
quiturs. 
After watching the ﬁ  lm, it’s clear why 
it has such a cult following. Its obvi-ous cinematic ﬂ  aws only contribute to 
its identity as the best worst ﬁ  lm ever made, but others have called it a mas-
terpiece of outsider art. So, who’s right?  
Regardless of opinion, “The Room” 
has made an impression on audiences who committed to watching the ﬁ  lm. 
“The Disaster Artist” will come to the-aters this December, giving fans of the 
original ﬁ  lm and fans of Franco the op-
portunity to come together for another dose of Johnny.What to watch this week: ‘The Room’ by Tommy Wiseau
Cult-classic ﬁ  lm “The Room” is getting 
a re-make (of sorts) with “The Disaster Artist, ” set to premiere in December. Courtesy to the AlligatorBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●
Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
TRIKE BIKE FOR SALE
As new. $300. Mark 216-317-3212    7-25-2-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
WANTED:
SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT ORONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET.1BR garage apt, w/ garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-1-17-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Caregiver and behavior assistant for adult with autism. Training provided. Must have car, pass background check, negative drug test. $15/hr plus mileage. Two or three days/wk. Send resume to colasanteona@gmail.com      7-25-17-3-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    8-1-17-4-14ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDesignated drivers are the greatest
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
1. LANGUAGE: What is a kerfuffle?
2. MEDICAL: What are you suffer -
ing from if you have a condition called veisalgia?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which famous World War II general had a bull terrier named Willie (named after William the Conquerer)?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What ocean is the 
Coral Sea in?
5. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
cups are in 2 gallons?
6. FOOD & DRINK: What fish has 
varieties called skipjack and bonito?
7. PSYCHOLOGY: What causes 
spectrophobia?
8. LITERATURE: What was the set-
ting for Shakespeare’s play “A Mid-summer Night’s Dream”?
9. MILITARY: What year was the 
Pentagon completed?
10. COMICS: What superhero had 
an enemy called The Riddler?
Answers
1. Fight or argument2. A hangover3. George S. Patton4. Pacific Ocean5. 326. Tuna7. A fear of mirrors
8. Athens, Greece
9. 194310. Batman
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 17, 2017King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Held in check
6 Spot for a Fitbit
11 Practical joker14 __ diem15 Shade-loving
ornamental
16 Polished off17 *Felt-covered
gamingequipment
19 Hoodwink
20 Reality TV host
Mike
21 Fit to __22 Grey Goose rival24 Coca-Cola
Company
headquarters
26 Seuss’ shelled
reptile
27 Daughter of
Michelle andBarack
29 “Hard __!”:
sailor’s cry
30 Not as many33 Team on the field35 Midterm, e.g.38 NPR’s Shapiro39 *What may be
moved by a fan
42 Bio stat
43 Grammy
45 UPS driver’s
assignments
46 Match play?48 Nights before50 Home of Aleppo52 Where to find
wheels and deals
54 Capelike
garments
58 Collar
attachment
59 Jessica of
“Hitchcock”
61 ATM output
62 Tazo product63 1978 misfit
comedy ... and
somethinghidden in eachanswer to astarred clue
66 Nutmeg State
collegian
67 Big dos
68 Ancient Anatolian
region
69 Rubio’s title:
Abbr.
70 Foe71 Type inDOWN
1 African capital
near the prime
meridian
2 Fortune-teller?3 Barroom mix-up4 Pacify5 “That’s right”6 “Too funny!”7 Loungewear item8 Man or Manhattan9 Jeanne d’Arc,
e.g.: Abbr.
10 Top of a
cornstalk
11 *Dr Pepper
Museum locale
12 Ring-shaped
coral reef
13 Garage door
opener brand
18 Puddies, to
Tweety
23 Family __
25 Certain
undercover cop
26 Golfer Tseng
who’s theyoungest playerto win five majorchampionships
28 Car bars
30 One of the faithful31 Reliever’s stat32 *Result of a
Merlot mishap
34 “Piece of cake!”
36 Gone by
37 Popes and
cardinals, but notnuns
40 Approximately
41 Drops from above
44 Nike competitor47 Rocky in a
Beatles title
49 Captivate51 Get moving52 Quotes
53 Simpson of
fashion
55 Place to hang
56 Actor Davis57 Shave, as sheep
59 Anger
60 Muslim holy man
64 Chicken vindaloo
go-with
65 Make tracks, 
old-style
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/20/1707/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
ACROSS
1 Lower in price
5 Try
10 Nutmeg spice14 Actor La Salle15 Crams, with “up”16 Sea of __: Black
Sea arm
17 Innate talent
20 “Wicked Game”
singer Chris
21 Shuttle flight
phase
22 Broadcaster’s
transmission to
affiliated stations
25 “My gal” of song26 Carpentry joints31 Barbecue
accessory
35 “I Put a Spell on
You” singerSimone
38 Full range39 Sharp-smelling
air pollutant
42 Writer of tales
with talkinganimals
43 Dental
alternatives to
pastes
44 Angers
45 Fireplace inserts47 Springfield
presidentiallibrary nickname
49 Hardly any time
at all
56 Legendary Rhine
siren
59 Cruller coating60 With “The,”
Tchaikovskywork that endswith “Waltz of theFlowers”
63 Physics particle64 French term of
endearment
65 List component66 Tiny sound67 County near
London
68 Mil. medals
DOWN
1 Russian
Revolution leader
2 Backspace,
perhaps
3 Occupy, as a desk4 __ Valley, Calif.:
1960 WinterOlympics site5 Sched.
uncertainty
6 Big name in ISPs
7 Wolf (down)8 Conical shelter9 Regard highly
10 Damon of “We
Bought a Zoo”
11 Blue sky color, in
Calais
12 Showman
Buffalo Bill
13 Morn’s
counterpart
18 Bygone theaters19 Spectrum shade
23 Jingled
24 __ light: filming
tool
27 Roll along the
runway
28 Qatari ruler29 Far from polite
30 Some Fr. martyrs
31 Unexpected
obstacle
32 Harbor sight33 “__ deal!”34 Run leisurely
36 Storm direction:
Abbr.
37 Dwight’s
opponent
40 Swiss army knife
tool41 Copyright pg. ID
46 Comfort in grief48 Flan ingredients50 Computer repair
experts
51 Backpacking
activities
52 Transmission
lubricant
53 Milks, in
Marseilles
54 Tenochtitlán
native55 Abounds (with)
56 Minstrel’s
instrument
57 Plains native
58 Law gp. that 
now only useshorses forceremonial
events
60 Go out for a bit?
61 Ode preposition62 “Toy Story”
dinosaur
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/19/1707/19/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 19, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comTHURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design 
using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15
WINDOW CLEANINGFlat Rate Prices & PRESSURE WASHING (Free quote) We are professionally equipped for One Story houses. 937-214-3824 or wesleeswashingservices@gmail.com      7-20-1-15Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305      7-20-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      7-20-1-19
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND1.  Garden tool
1.  Excellent 5.  Spot
2.  Standing ____6.  Picture
3.  Mascara site7.  News ____
4.  StraightVESHOL
BPURSECAELP
GEIAM
TVAONOI
YSHAEELNRAOHC
RNIALEANSWERS: 1A-Shovel  5A-Place  6A-Image  7A-Anchor
1D-Superb  2D-Ovation  3D-Eyelash  4D-Linear  B-Birthplace7-21-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Everyone has one. BONUS207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
16 Health Services 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 14 Help Wanted 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Gator linebacker arrested
Former UF linebacker Dante Fowler Jr. was arrested Tuesday night in St. 
Petersburg on misdemeanor charges of simple battery and mischief. He was released early Wednesday morning on $650 bond.Devin Robinson's performance 
in this year's NBA Summer League earned himself a contract with the Washington Wizards. Read on Pg. 15.Staﬀ   Report
In this edition of the Alligator Awards, 
we debate which UF senior was the best 
of the 2016-17 season. Sports writers Andrew Huang and Morgan McMullen join alligatorSports editors Dylan Dixon and 
Jake Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion 
to debate the four nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Dixon: Gourley was UF’s ace in the 
hole this season
It’s easy to overlook someone like 
Delanie Gourley.
She played alongside a teammate in Kelly 
Barnhill who was arguably the best player in all of college softball this year, leading the NCAA in both ERA and strikeouts per seven innings pitched.
But make no mistake about it, Gourley 
was as dominant as anyone in 2017.
The Lakeside, California, native’s 
statline featured a 0.71 ERA, a 22-4 record, 
254 strikeouts, 17 complete games and two 
saves.
Hot damn. Those are video game 
numbers right there.
Gourley did everything for her team this 
season, mowing down batters left and right. Like Barnhill, she ﬁ  nished near the top of the nation in several statistical categories: hits allowed per seven innings pitched 
(third), ERA (fourth) and shutouts (fourth).
And as the stage got brighter, Gourley 
only got better. In 39.2 innings of work 
in the NCAA Tournament, the left-hander allowed just three earned runs and 16 hits while striking out a whopping 56 batters. Her strong postseason play helped lead Florida all the way to the Women’s College World Series Finals, where it eventually 
lost to the Oklahoma Sooners in two games.
Despite failing to ﬁ  nish her ﬁ  nal season 
with a national championship, Gourley 
couldn’t have had a better year at UF. Hands down, she was the best senior in Gainesville during 2016-17.
Dreilinger: Woolcock served 
championship effort
I looked at every choice for Florida’s 
best senior of 2016-17 and only one stood out from the rest.
Only one had the honor of being named 
the top-female athlete in her sport. And only one was both a national champion and a runner-up in the ensuing individual singles tournament.
If you haven’t ﬁ  gured out who I’m 
talking about yet, you obviously weren’t actively following UF sports this summer.
The athlete I picked, the one who 
undoubtedly was Florida’s best senior this season, is none other than the women’s tennis player hailing from Melbourne, Australia: Belinda Woolcock.
The incredible season she had speaks for 
itself.
Woolcock was the Gators No.1 singles player in every match she competed in, meaning she was constantly matched up against some of the top players in the country. And she won most of them, boasting a 16-6 overall record.
And then, of course, there was helping 
her team win a national title, one of three Florida sports this year to do so. After that, she played in the NCAA Individual Singles Tournament, where she ﬁ  nished runner-up.
But what’s even more impressive is 
the fact that she played in 14 singles and doubles matches over an 11-day span in the postseason. 
Find one athlete in this roundtable 
discussion that came even close to doing that.
To top everything off, Woolcock received 
the Honda Award, which is given to the best female college athlete in 12 different sports.
Again, name one other person in this 
roundtable that boasts that kind of resume.
I’ll wait.
Huang: Williams achieved greatness 
in her ﬁ  nal campaign
It’s always a shame when great players 
are stuck on losing teams.  We saw it 
this past season with Markelle Fultz in Washington, Carmelo Anthony in New York and Ronni Williams right here in 
Gainesville.It can be hard to remain focused and 
motivated while being charged with 
carrying a team on your shoulders—but Ronni Williams, the superstar senior, did it anyways.
It’s hard to lead the conference in 
scoring—she did it anyways.
Statistically, there is less than a one 
percent chance that a women's college basketball player gets drafted into WNBA.
She did it anyways.Williams, the 22nd pick in the 2017 
WNBA Draft, saved her best for last.
In her ﬁ  nal season, she set career highs 
in scoring, assists, ﬁ  eld goal percentage, free throw percentage, minutes played, games started, and she tied her career rebounding average from her junior year.
Williams led the team in points, 
rebounds and games started and ﬁ  nished second in assists, free throw shooting and ﬁ  eld goal percentage.
Without her across-the-board presence, 
it’s hard to imagine what this year's 2016-17 team would have looked like.
Despite missing the postseason, Williams 
was selected to the All-SEC First Team and was listed as an Honorable Mention for the 2017 WBCA All-America Team.
Efforts like her 43-point, 14-rebound 
takeover against Vanderbilt, her nine double-doubles, and leading Florida in 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staﬀ  
Belinda Woolcock serves during Florida's 4-2 win against Oklahoma State on Feb. 18, 2017, at the Ring Tennis Complex.
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
 Who was Florida’s best senior of 2016-17?
I’m going to start this column off with a 
question designed to make you think. 
If the saying is “defense wins 
championships,” then why does the 
Heisman Trophy, the most prestigious award in all of college football, only go to an offensive player?
Think about it.Since the turn of the century, only 
quarterbacks and running backs have won the Heisman. No one else. Why can’t a 
defensive player have his turn? 
Or better yet, why not someone on 
special teams?
Now, I know I probably made someone 
furious at the sheer notion that a punter 
or a kick returner could be in the same conversation for the Heisman as a Lamar Jackson- or Tim Tebow-type player.
But those positions can be just as 
important as a quarterback or wide receiver. 
Just ask Devin Hester, who became one 
of the most feared punt returners in the NFL. 
It’s not everyday you see a special teams 
player garner attention.
So when Oklahoma State punter Zach 
Sinor started his own campaign to win the 2017 Heisman by handing out an awesome pamphlet during Big 12 media days, it was no surprise that it appeared all over the 
news.
He actually made a pretty solid, eye-
opening case for why he should be on 
everyone’s Heisman watch list. 
After all, as Sinor pointed out, 35 of his 
punts were downed inside the opponent’s 20-yard line, totaling 62.5% of his total punts. Both of those stats were good enough to rank ﬁ  rst in the country. He even helped his team ﬁ  nish ﬁ  rst nationally in 
opponents’ starting ﬁ  eld position.
His contributions for the Cowboys were 
good, and it even compares to current 
Gators fan favorite, Johnny Townsend.
Time after time last season, Townsend 
gave the Gators defense great ﬁ  eld position 
to work with. He led the nation with a 47.9 
yard average on 64 punts, had 29 punts go 50 yards or more and pinned 27 punts inside inside the 20-yard line. He totaled 3065 yards, a little under two miles in punts.Punters really 
are people tooJakes on a Plane / Opinion
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
With the conclusion of the 2017 NBA 
Summer League this past Monday, let's take a 
look back at how several former Gators fared in the tournament. 
Devin RobinsonRobinson, a 6-foot-8 forward who went 
undrafted last month, earned himself a two-way contract with Washington after averaging 3.4 points, 5.0 rebounds and 1.2 blocks per game with the Wizards' summer league squad. 
Robinson is the second player Washington 
has signed to a two-way contract this offseason, along with former Pittsburgh forward Michael Young.
This new type of contract allows NBA 
teams to add two additional players to its roster who will spend the majority of their season in the G League (formerly known as the D-League). However, two-way players will be allowed to spend up to 45 days with their franchise's main roster.
Canyon Barry
Barry averaged 3.6 points and 1.8 
rebounds per game with the New York Knicks 
in the Orlando portion of the Summer League.  Barry started two of the Knicks’ ﬁ  ve games.
Dorian Finney-SmithWith a full NBA season under his belt, Finney-Smith seemed comfortable playing for the Dallas Mavericks.
The 24-year-old averaged 8.0 points, 6.2 
rebounds and 1.8 steals and started all six of the Mavs’ summer league games.  He amassed 13 points and seven rebounds along with four assists and three steals in Dallas’ 
title game loss to the Los Angeles Lakers.
Casey PratherPrather, the high-ﬂ  ying leading scorer 
of UF's 2013-14 Final Four team, played for 
the Cleveland Cavaliers during the summer league, starting all four games he played in.
Prather averaged 9.0 points per game, 
the most of any former Gator in this year's summer league. He was a member of back-to-back championship teams in the NBL in Australia prior to joining the Cavs.
Chris WalkerWalker was a highly-touted recruit upon 
his 2013 arrival in Florida.  A gifted athlete, the 6-foot-10 big man had two disappointing 
seasons in Gainesville, ﬁ  nishing his college 
career with averages of 3.7 points and 2.7 rebounds per game.
After opting to go pro after his sophomore 
year, Walker found himself on the Chicago Bulls’ summer league team this offseason, where he notched 4.8 points, 6.3 rebounds, 1.3 steals and 2.3 blocks per game.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org 2017 Summer League RecapWhat the Orlando native did on 
the ﬁ  eld made an impact with both 
the team and the fans, as his punts helped Florida move the ball at times where the offense couldn’t.
Even if Townsend shouldn’t be 
standing next to four other men contending for the Heisman, his and Sinor’s play should be enough to make the committee change their 
minds on who they nominate for this 
award.
While a quarterback is basically 
responsible for putting points on the 
board for his team, a defense is there to stop the other team from doing so. And special teams helps determine ﬁ  eld position after every punt or kickoff.
Now, maybe having a punter 
winning the Heisman sounds 
farfetched and is just one really 
big, kinda funny joke, but it doesn’t 
change the fact that mainly offensive players are chosen for it.
My point is, if the Heisman 
Trophy is supposed to be awarded to the best collegiate football player, maybe it’s time to take a look at all the other great players in the game, 
not just those on offense.
Jake Dreilinger is assistant sports 
editor of the Alligator. His column appears frequently on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Grace King / Alligator Staﬀ  
Devin Robinson stands on the court during 
Florida's 77-70 loss against South Carolina in the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament on March 26.
GATORS IN THE NBA16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staﬀ  
Ronni Williams prepares to shoot a free throw during Florida's 57-53 
win against Arkansas on Feb. 9, 2017, at the O'Connell Center.
scoring for the third consecutive 
season made up for disappointing team results.
The hard truth is that one 
player can only do so much in 
sports.
What Ronni Williams can do, 
however, is claim the title of Best 
Senior.
McMullen: Torres played to 
her full potential 
When it comes to being a leader 
who has the most signiﬁ  cant 
impact on your team, no other 
senior came close to Maria Torres.
Torres paced the Gators all 
year, coming in either ﬁ  rst or second on the team in every tournament besides the NCAA Regionals, where she came in third. She had the most under-par rounds of any other golfer by far, and she did it on a team with three other Gators in the top 55 of 
the world amateur rankings.
Individually, nobody was able 
to compare to Torres in 2016-17. 
She led the team in top-10 ﬁ  nishes (7), individual wins (3) and stroke average (71.71). That average is the lowest in school history, breaking the record previously held by…Maria Torres in 2016.
Stats are great, but awards 
grant validation. And her trophy case is practically overﬂ  owing: 2017 First Team All-American, First Team All-SEC, three-time SEC Golfer of the Week, SEC Academic Honor Roll… what I’m getting at is that the lady can ball out.Torres was the ﬁ  rst UF player 
to win the Gator Invitational individual title in nine years, and she did so in stunning fashion. She shot a career- and event-
best 4 under for the third round 
and an event-best 5 under for the tournament. Torres beat the then-No. 1-ranked amateur in the world, Leona Maguire of Duke, by two strokes. It would’ve been three if not for a birdie on 18 in the ﬁ  nal round.
This woman deserves 
everything that comes her way as a result of her hard work. Next award on the mantle: Alligator Award for Best Senior. Make it happen, folks. 
Who do you think was the best 
senior at UF in the 2016-17 season? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.
AWARDS,  from pg. 14Williams led UF in scoring, rebounding