We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 15 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
Staff Report
University Police released 
sworn complaints recommending 
a total of 62 third-degree felony charges for UF’s nine suspended 
football players on Monday. 
The players — receiver An-
tonio Callaway, running back 
Jordan Scarlett, offensive line-man Kadeem Telfort, defensive 
lineman Jordan Smith, defensive lineman Richerd Desir-Jones, de-
fensive lineman Keivonnis Davis, 
receiver Rick Wells, linebacker James Houston and linebacker 
Ventrell Miller — are all accused 
of using credit card information 
that didn’t belong to them to fill their UF Bookstore debit ac-counts, and using that money to 
purchase electronics like laptops and headphones from the book-
store, according to University Po-
lice reports. 
None of the players have been 
formally charged at this point, as the State Attorney’s office is 
conducting its own investiga-tion. Seven of the nine players are eligible to have the potential 
charges dropped after performing community service and paying 
fines, State Attorney Bill Cervone 
told the Tampa Bay Times. Tel-fort and Smith are unlikely to be 
eligible for pre-trial intervention 
because their incidents involve 
multiple cards and fraud victims, according to the reports.Seven of the nine players were 
indefinitely suspended from all 
team activities Aug. 13. Scarlett 
and Wells were suspended Aug. 
30.
Police became aware of the 
possible fraud on Aug. 15 when UF Bookstore employees said 
several students were adding 
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dressed in her new charcoal gray 
suit and carrying 20 copies of her 
resume, Kristiana Caine prepared to meet with employers at UF’s bian-nual Career Showcase. 
The 21-year-old UF marketing se-
nior attended the event, held by the Career Resource Center on Tuesday, hoping to land a full-time job after graduating in Spring.
“I was deﬁ  nitely nervous, but I know that I’m a people person,” she said. 
Caine said she planned on visit-
ing 14 companies on the ﬁ  rst day of the showcase and six more on Wednesday. The ﬁ  rst day of show-case is non-technical employers and the second is dedicated to technical ﬁ  elds. 
Caine said she felt less nervous 
because the employers were already seeking out UF students, giving her an advantage. 
“I know these companies are so amazing, and UF invests so much into this event, so why not use the 
opportunities that UF gives you?” 
she said.
This is the ﬁ  rst Fall the event was 
held in the renovated O’Connell Cen-ter, said Ja’Net Glover, interim direc-tor for career services at the CRC.
“As we’ve grown, the O’Connell 
Center is the only facility in Gainesville that will sustain our event with the volume of activity,” she said.
Over the two days, the event will host 364 companies coming to re-cruit UF students, Glover said. Glov-
er anticipates between 6,000 and 
8,000 students will attend over the two days, she said. Last year, over 7,400 students took part in the show-case over the course of both days.
The top employers at the show-
case, including Deloitte and KPMG, 
hired over 100 UF students last year 
and will likely do the same this year, Glover said. 
Glover said students have been 
preparing for the event since Fall be-gan by going to the CRC for resume critiques and other advice. 
“Even if you’re not ready to look 
for a job, it’s never too early to be able to build a brand and build con-nections and relationships,” Glover said. 
Ana Primo, a UF business man-
agement freshman, went into the 
event without feeling nervous, 
she said. Primo only wanted to go around and speak to a few employ-ers for the experience. She went to By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer 
Despite the Student Government 
elections being the most contested 
since 2015, only about 300 more stu-
dents voted than last Fall.
Erica Baker, the SG supervisor of 
elections, said 5,318 students cast 
their ballots Tuesday. Last Fall, when 
Impact Party ran mostly unopposed, 
5,032 students voted. In Fall 2015, when Access Party ran against Im-pact Party, 6,427 students voted.
The Student Body voted to elect 
50 new senators based on residential areas. Voting will continue from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Wednesday. Poll-ing locations include the Broward 
Hall Library, the Reitz Union Com-
puter Lab, the Southwest Recreation Center and the Marston Science Li-brary Main Room. 
Brett Wolff, a UF biomedical en-
gineering junior, said he cast his vote in Marston Science Library after party volunteers encouraged him to 
vote. 
Wolff didn’t read either party’s 
platform before voting, he said. 
“I voted Impact because that’s 
what I’ve voted for in the past,” the 20-year-old said, adding he volun-
teered for that party during his fresh-man year. “That’s the one that used to be Swamp Party, I think.” 
Keith Saint, a UF mass communi-
cation graduate student and a former Access senator, said he voted for In-spire at the Reitz Union because they appear to have the best intentions for 
SG and will make it more active.
“I’m familiar with the way the 
other party works,” the 28-year-old 
said, referring to Impact Party. “They 
misrepresent students by only ben-
eﬁ  tting the ones they want.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUPD recommends 62 felony charges for suspended players
Thousands of UF students interview for Career ShowcaseFirst day of SG voting sees 
minor increase in ballotsSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff 
CAREER DAY CONNECTIONS
Companies like City Furniture provided booths where students were able to speak with future 
employers at the Career Showcase on Tuesday. 
FOOTBALL
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
 What is each suspended football player accused of?
Read our timeline for each individual player to see why police are recommending 62 total charges, pg. 14Tropical Smoothie receipt results in ﬁ  ring 
An employee wrote ‘Black Chick’ on a receipt, pg. 8
Wild Iris book store faces the end 
The feminist bookstore announced its closing , pg. 4
SEE SHOWCASE,  PAGE 8Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 15
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  93° LOW  68°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
‘Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating: 
100 Years @FloridaMuseum’ 
exhibit now open
The Florida Museum marks its 100th anniversary as the state’s 
official natural history museum 
with a free exhibit highlight-ing objects from its collec-
tions. The “Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating” exhibit showcases 
some of the museum’s most treasured objects and features 
scientists in a working lab, 
extinct species, a 26-foot-long humpback whale skeleton and 
a 3-D printer in action. Visitors 
will also be able to use their mobile devices and earbuds for 
an audio tour to hear scientists 
discussing interesting stories about the objects and partici-
pate in a scavenger hunt, using 
riddles as clues to find museum 
objects. For more information, 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/exhibits/100-years.
Hispanic Heritage Month: Fiesta 
Fiesta is one of the seven inter-
nal programming events dur-
ing Hispanic Heritage Month. This social event will feature 
a Spanish music festival expe-
rience. The theme is Vida en Color (which means Life in 
Color). With food, giveaways 
and a great outdoor vibe, all individuals can enjoy and learn 
about the Hispanic culture. 
Fiesta will be held on Flavet Field on Friday at 7 p.m.
Gay Movie Night — ‘Like You 
Mean It’
The Pride Community Center, 
at 3131 W. 13th St.,  is show-ing the movie “Like You Mean It” on Friday at 7:30 p.m. The movie depicts the story of Mark, who’s been with his boy-friend Jonah for three years. 
After Mark’s father’s death, the 
relationship between the two starts to crack under the pres-
sure of couples therapy. Gay 
Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. 
A $2 donation is requested to 
cover the cost of snacks.
ReptiDay Gainesville Reptile & 
Exotic Animal ShowReptiDay is a reptile-themed 
event on Saturday from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. with vendors offering reptile pets, supplies, 
feeders, cages and merchan-
dise as well as live animal sem-inars and frequent free raffles 
for prizes. The event will be 
held at the Wyndham Garden Gainesville, at 2900 SW 13th 
St. Tickets cost $10 for adults 
and $5 for children 5-years-old to 12-years-old. 
Tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the 
UF Argentine Tango Club for 
free lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or 
a seasoned dancer, everyone 
is welcome. No experience, partner or special shoes are re-
quired. Just bring a thick pair 
of socks. Beginner level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 
p.m., followed by advanced 
level lessons at 7:15 pm. Classes are held at the Reitz 
Union, Dance Studio A. Find 
the UF Argentine Tango Club on Facebook for more details.
The United Nations Day 
Celebration: 'My World, 
Your World Our World'
The United Nations Association of Gainesville is celebrating United Nations Day on Oct. 5 from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the Gainesville Women’s Club, at 
2809 W. University Ave. The 
event includes a panel discus-sion, recognition of local model 
United Nations clubs, a musical 
performance by “Earthman” Lanny Smith and a keynote 
speech from Gainesville Mayor 
Lauren Poe. Reservations must be made online by Friday, and 
a boxed lunch will be served 
for $17. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Correction
In an article titled “Albert and 
Alberta Gator-themed emojis available,” published Monday, 
the number of different univer-
sities and colleges represented by Ree Stickers, an emoji app, 
was incorrect. The correct 
number of schools the app of-fers emojis for is 42.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Faculty Member from the  
UF College of Journalism and Communications 
and
Student Member at Large
(unpaid members of the Board of Directors)
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 6.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, October 
9 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on October 26 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the openings of the following:
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we believe in 
providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous 
compensation, and our District Manager position epitomizes this philosophy.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80K
Year 2 - $90K 
Year 3 - $95K 
Year 4 - $100K Year 5 - $110KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer 
 
AdvancementTHEY HELD AN EVENT 
FOR NATIONAL VOTER 
REGISTRATION DAY.
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
On National Voter Registration Day, 
68 UF students registered to vote. 
The Bob Graham Center for Pub-
lic Service registered the voters across 
campus Tuesday. Students registered 
at Marston Science Library, the Reitz 
Union and Pugh Hall from 10 a.m. to 
2 p.m. 
Megan Newsome, a UF astrophys-
ics senior, said students do care about 
politics. 
“It’s a big myth that students are 
apathetic about voting on political is-
sues or that we don’t care,” Newsome said. “I think that if anything it’s equal 
to other generations, and if not, we care 
more.”
The 21-year-old is the lead ambas-sador for the national Vote Everywhere 
Program, which registers voters and makes petitions to restore felons’ vot-ing rights. The program is also trying to establish early voting locations at edu-cational institutions across Florida. 
Newsome said the state’s early vot-
ing law requires that locations are even-ly spread to reach the high-population centers in a city. She said in Gainesville there’s a high population at UF but no early voting location. 
“The fact that there isn’t a location 
here means we are largely ignoring the 
actual requirement of the law,” New-
some said. 
Charles Williams, an 18-year-old UF 
political science freshman, said it’s im-
portant for students to vote, volunteer 
and learn about political issues. 
“The whole atmosphere for every-
thing, even classroom discussions, can 
be vastly changed just by who you vote 
for,” Williams said. Bob Graham Center 
registers dozens of voters
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
VOTER REGISTRATION DAY
UF students visited various stations on campus for National Voter Registration Day on 
Tuesday. Students wrote on whiteboards why they made the choice to register to vote.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
POLICE SUSPECT THE MAN SHOT 
A MAN AT SUNSET APARTMENTS.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is searching for a man 
near Orlando for shooting a man Monday 
morning at an apartment complex in northwest Gainesville.
Marlun Lenard Williams, 29 of Gainesville 
and Orlando, is suspected of shooting Verl Harmon, 27, in the courtyard of Sunset Apart-ments, located at 1500 NW 12th St., in his tor-so. Ofﬁ  cers quickly arrived on the scene after multiple people called 911 and found Harmon at 4:30 a.m., GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-bias wrote in an email. Responding ofﬁ  cers attempted to save Har-
mon’s life but were unsuccessful, and Harmon was pronounced dead at the scene. Tobias said police are unsure if anyone witnessed the ac-tual shooting, but witnesses told police at least one suspect ran from the scene after shots were ﬁ  red. 
Police consider Williams armed and danger-
ous, believing that Williams may still be armed with the gun used in the murder. They are working with other law enforcement agencies to determine Williams’ location, Tobias said.
Ofﬁ  cials have reason to believe that Wil-
liams may be traveling to Central Florida in a 1998 dark blue Ford Crown Victoria. Ofﬁ  cers advise caution to anyone who sees Williams, Tobias said.
Police are asking anyone with information 
to call GPD’s Detective Bureau at 352-393-7670. GPD searching for man in Orlando 
area after Gainesville shootingBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
As Shannon Moriarty searched for a place 
to study on campus, she was surprised to see 
the otherwise 24/7 Newell Hall closed.
Moriarty, a UF art history sophomore, real-
ized the study hall was closed for home foot-
ball games. 
“I felt pretty disappointed,” the 19-year-old said. “As a student who lives off campus, it’s 
kind of like a hit or miss whether or not it’s go-ing to be quiet at my house, so I kind of have 
to be able to have somewhere 24/7 to work.”
Moriarty said she was upset there wouldn’t 
be places to study during or after this week-
end’s noon football game against Vanderbilt University. Other libraries close at 6 p.m., and Newell will not be open. 
“It’s impossible to work in an actual study space on campus on gameday,” she said. “It’s just rough because my midterms are next week.”
As with every home game, on-campus facil-
ities like Newell Hall, the Student Recreation & Fitness Center and Broward Recreation Center will be closed, UF spokesperson Margot Win-ick said. Winick said it’s a standard procedure. 
Safety and security factors are assessed 
when it comes to determining when buildings will be open, because most of these spaces are staffed by students, Winick said. 
“Building closure is based on university 
practice,” Winick said. “Some facilities are closed in alignment with standard university closure practices, based on proximity to the football stadium.”
@Christina_M18 
cmorales@alligator.org Newell Hall among on-campus facilities closed on gameday
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Terri Bailey spent the last $20 in her pock-
et on a book. It was inevitable, she said.
Since moving back to Gainesville in 1997 
and discovering Wild Iris Books, she can’t step inside the downtown bookstore without 
buying something.
 “You never know what you’re going to 
ﬁ  nd in there,” the 51-year-old said.
Wild Iris Books, a feminist bookstore lo-
cated at 22 SE Fifth Ave., has been a haven 
for women’s rights activists like Bailey since opening in 1992. But after experiencing ﬁ  nan-cial struggles, it will close on Dec. 23, said Erica Rodriguez Merrell, one of the owners.
The store, owned and operated entirely by 
volunteers, is hard to keep open during busi-ness hours because both owners also work 
full-time jobs, Merrell said.She said the bookstore fosters a welcom-
ing environment for people to discover new 
things about themselves with events such as 
a queer open mic night.
“Wild Iris is kind of this space where you 
can start those journeys and where you can 
come in and ask those questions,” she said.
Merrell said there may be an opportunity 
for Wild Iris Books to continue either through the help of investors or new ownership, but no ofﬁ  cial plans have been made.
Despite rallies and workshops for Gaines-
ville’s feminist community, nothing can replace the void Wild Iris Books will leave, Bailey said.
“Sometimes you don’t need a movement, 
you need a home, and Wild Iris is home,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgLocal bookstore to closeWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A homeless man was arrested 
Monday afternoon after he stole a 
cash register from a convenience store in downtown Gainesville.
Gainesville Police said Richard 
Lamar Brown Jr., 23, of Gainesville, went to Downtown Convenience, lo-cated at 40 SW Second St., at about 
6:50 a.m. Mon-day, and used a 
brick to break the 
glass front door 
and enter the store, according to the arrest re-port. 
Brown tried to use the brick to open the cash regis-ter but failed. He then took the cash register and left with the about $250 
inside. The register itself was worth 
about $350, according to the report. 
Brown was later identiﬁ  ed by vid-
eo surveillance. When contacted by an ofﬁ  cer, Brown was wearing the same clothes as he was in the video, according to the report. Police also connected a burglary 
at Triangle Club, located at 1005 SE Fourth Ave. on Sunday. At about 
1:20 p.m., Brown entered the confer-
ence center through a service win-dow because the store was locked, according to another GPD arrest re-port. 
Brown broke open the cash regis-
ter and took the $50 inside of it. He also took about $4.50 from the tip jar, according to the report. 
Brown was arrested and charged 
with burglary and larceny. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $60,000 bond. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
GPD: Homeless man arrested for stealing cash register 
Brown
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was ar-
rested early Monday morn-ing after assaulting an elderly, handicapped man in Micanopy. 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce said Gerald Devon Davis, 33, confronted a homeless man in Micanopy at about 11:45 p.m. Sunday to confront him about money the victim owed him. 
Davis approached the victim, 
who was in a wheelchair “in the street” near 203 SW Sixth St., according to an arrest re-
port. Davis told the victim  he was “going 
to blow his brains out,” 
and poked 
him in the chest. The vic-
tim told police he saw some-thing black in Davis’ hand.
“I’m going to kick your ass. 
This is like taking candy from a 
baby,” Davis said, according to 
the report. 
In fear for his life, the victim 
went to a nearby residence for help. The resident told police that when she opened her door, she saw the victim’s wheelchair knocked over and Davis hitting the victim in the face and chest 
multiple times, according to the 
report. 
The resident told Davis to go 
away, but he continued to as-sault the victim. The resident told police she heard Davis say, “I’m going to kill you,” to the victim, according to the report. 
Davis was arrested and 
charged with aggravated assault and abusing an elderly or dis-abled person. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $30,000 bond.  ACSO: Man attacks elderly, 
handicapped man in Micanopy
Davis
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua County Jail inmate faces 
charges after he attacked a fellow in-
mate Monday, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said. 
Daniel LaVaughn Jerkins, 31, rushed 
at a fellow inmate at about 1:38 p.m., lifted him off the ﬂ  oor and  began choking him, ac-cording to an arrest 
report. 
Police noticed 
marks around the 
victim’s neck and chest consistent with being choked. 
When deputies asked Jerkins about 
the incident, he told them they could 
watch surveillance video of the incident and refused to speak without a lawyer, according to the report. 
Jerkins was arrested Friday by 
Gainesville Police on a charge of con-tempt of court after violating a domestic restraining order, according to a GPD 
arrest report. The restraining order was 
from December 2016.
He was being held at the jail in lieu 
of a $25,000 bond.
After the choking, Police charged 
Jerkins with battery in a jail facility. He remains at the jail, as of press time, in lieu of a $35,000 bond. ACSO: Inmate charged, 
choked fellow inmate
Jerkins
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
This semester, I promised myself I’d get 
out of my comfort zone for the better. Too often we find ourselves in this Mon-
day through Friday lull where we’ve 
gotten used to the schedule we’ve set 
for ourselves, and all we do is blindly follow it. Dear readers, I hope you add some spice into 
your lives every once in a while, especially if 
that spice is adding an interesting club to your lineup. 
We’re creeping up to the halfway point of this semes-
ter, and I sincerely hope that you’ve found something 
at UF that you’re passionate about. Whether it be Greek 
life, an underwater basket-weaving club or anything in between. If you haven’t, that’s fine too, because you’ve got the other half of this semester to do something about 
that.
Often our parents or adults (I mean real adults, not 
us) talk about how college was the best time of their 
lives, and they went on all of these crazy and life-chang-ing adventures. I’d like to think that part of the reason 
they say this is because they were a part of something 
they cared about in college. 
Your first reflex might be to say that you’ve got some-
thing you’d like to be a part of on your mind, but it has 
nothing to do with your major. I’d like to tell you that 
you should go for it, especially if it isn’t part of your ma-jor. Try a cooking club. Try scuba diving. Do something that makes you get out of your comfort zone, because some of the best things that have happened to me while 
at UF have been as a result of me getting out of my cushy 
shell. 
Two and a half years ago, I started writing for the Alli-
gator. I was horrible. I essentially wrote a research paper as my first article, and it took me two weeks to get the 500-word piece published. Somewhere along the line, I threw my AP stylebook (the 
book that’s basically our journalism bible) 
across my dorm room because I was frustrated and irritated by how little I knew about writ-ing a hard news piece. Earlier this week, one 
of my articles for The Gainesville Sun got put 
on an Associated Press budget, which later re-sulted with my story in The Seattle Times and 
U.S. News. Something like that never would have hap-pened if I hadn’t kept up with the Alligator, or if I’d been 
too shy about writing for them to begin with. Yes, it was 
hard at first, but anything worthwhile in life is. 
My point, dear readers, is that I want you to go out 
and be a part of something at UF, or even not related to 
UF, that matters to you regardless of if it’s part of your 
major. Who knows — if you’re passionate enough about it, it might be the reason you switch your major or even land your future job. 
Yesterday while I was covering a story, I ended up 
meeting a UF political science sophomore who told me she had always been curious about journalism, but she was already too far in her political science track. When I come across conversations like this, I feel a slight sad-
ness come over me. You’re never too far in something to 
not learn about something else — never.
Which is why I’ll leave you with this last piece of ad-
vice, dear readers: If you’re looking for a sign to be cou-rageous and try something new, whatever it is, this is it. 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Leave your comfort zone and don’t be afraid to 
join a club if it’s not related to your majorStudent Government elections are here again, and the dra-
ma has come with it. So far, this election cycle has seen a new minority party going up against Impact Party — and tons of memes. On Tuesday, only 5,318 people out of more than 52,000 UF students voted. We at the Alliga-
tor encourage you to go to the polls today and make your voice 
heard, because this election is pretty important. 
This semester we’ve watched as Inspire Party made this the 
most contested election since Fall 2015. However, we can’t help 
but wonder if this is SG repeating itself. Some of us here at the Alligator were around when Access Party, the last substantial minority party, rose to power in Fall 2015. We thought another party would bring some much-needed debate and maybe even cooperation to the Student Senate. Instead we saw endless back-and-forths and refusals to compromise. 
A one-party system is not only horrible for democracy, but 
leads to distrust from the Student Body. (Yes, we’re talking about the memes again.) But the last two-party system we had only lead to mudslinging, bickering and a failure to create change.
That being said, we at the Alligator endorse the Inspire Party 
candidates in these elections. Inspire’s insistence on making SG more transparent and accountable is definitely needed, and it ac-tually wants to fight to implement online voting, a debate which should have been settled semesters ago. 
As for the independent candidates, Trevison Clark for Mur-
phree Area and Adrian O’Sullivan for Yulee Area, we will not be endorsing them. We feel like they have good ideas, but they are too similar to Inspire’s. It’s tough being the realist, but we don’t believe change in SG will happen with individuals. Howev-er, both independents did participate in a public forum Monday night, and we commend them for that. If you live in either of the two areas, please go find O’Sullivan or Clark and hear them out. 
We’re not trying to villainize Impact. We have seen good 
things come out of the party, and we believe many in Impact 
have their heart in the right place. They have chosen platform 
points that can be achieved in the short term so students will see results fast. 
But we need to address small changes and structural prob-
lems. By Impact only addressing small issues, none of SG’s faults are changed. There has been no direct effort from Impact to ad-dress online voting. There was virtual silence when the Student Body president, who is seen as the head of the party, was very publically arrested. 
What really sealed the deal with this endorsement was Im-
pact’s refusal to participate in a public forum with Inspire Party and the two independent candidates Monday. Yes, it was short notice, and yes, Hurricane Irma messed up everyone’s schedules. But the party had a duty to the Student Body to answer pub-licly to recent controversies, explain its platform and tell us why we should continue voting for its senators. Maybe Impact would have made valid points. Maybe it would have had better answers 
than Inspire. But now we won’t know.  
Change starts with you, the Student Body, going to the voting 
polls today. Remember that SG makes major decisions for UF and 
controls $20 million.
We’re not going to say Inspire will magically fix everything in 
SG. But even through our cynicism, we can hope that two parties can work together to change it for the better. 
To the candidates, we hope you don’t prove us wrong. Alligator 
endorsement: 
Inspire Party
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgRemember those nights in your dorm 
common area? All of the usual sus-pects from the guys’ side and the girls’ side crept out of their crowded rooms, walked down the hall and 
swiped their fobs. Someone ordered pizza that everyone ate. Something someone want-ed to watch was playing softly on the TV. Ev-eryone somehow ﬁ  t on one couch and ﬁ  ve chairs. 
I’m not too cool to admit it now: I was just 
happy that many people knew my name and seemed relatively interested in hanging out with me. I saw ﬂ  ecks of the infamous “friend 
group” I was told I would have in college. 
The way I had always pictured it; that group would include about 15 or so people that would ride out to Midtown together (provid-ed cops weren’t out that night) and have the best four years of our lives.
Now, I’m (somehow) a senior, and I have 
about ﬁ  ve good friends. My freshman year common-area-queen self would probably be utterly disappointed, but I’m not. That’s because I’ve learned that there’s a difference between a friend who’s there for convenience and a friend who’s actually there 
for you.   
As we get older and we start to 
become the people we’re going to 
be, the space in our lives for strict-ly convenient friendships cave in. There’s less time for deciding what to wear and what picture to post, and more time for contemplating what to do after graduation and why you don’t feel like 
you’re good enough. A convenience friend 
will only be around for the photo and the Fat’s line. A quality friend will be around for those things, too — but unlike convenience friends, they won’t stop there. 
They will be a sounding board for your 
long-winded plan about how you’re going to get your dream job. They’ll listen — and I mean really listen — to you vent about the dumb decisions you made last night and then help you ﬁ  nd a way to move past them. They’ll call you out for things you did that just weren’t you because they love 
you. They’ll push you out of your 
comfort zone when they know you need it, and they won’t accept when you underestimate how far you can go. 
They’ll drop everything when 
you need them. Even when it’s not 
convenient. 
Our school is a breeding ground for con-
venience friendships: we all work out at the same gyms, we study in the same libraries and drink at the same bars. We live within miles of each other. But when we pop the Gainesville bubble and move who-knows-where, it just won’t be that easy to spend time with everyone in that 20-person group chat. 
You don’t have to kick the convenience friends out of your life — and you shouldn’t. There’s a rightful place in your emotional planner for people who are easy to meet up with, share gossip with and grab lunch with. They might pick you up on their way to class, 
or text you to see what you’re doing that night 
or do a number of things that are thought-ful but don’t require much effort. Nothing’s wrong with that, as long as you don’t confuse them with quality friends. Don’t let yourself be disappointed if they don’t pull through when you need them. If you do ﬁ  nd yourself lucky enough to have a few quality friends, during college or beyond, show them how 
much you appreciate them.  
If you want to have this type of person in 
your life, then be this type of person. Just like 
with any relationship, you get what you give. So drop everything. Drive over. Especially when it’s inconvenient. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
For those victim to it, the grotesque fact of racism is difﬁ  cult to overstate. In furtive glances, tightened chests and cracked bones, it asserts itself with le-thal, overwhelming force. 
For those of us considered white, the ex-
perience is more history lesson than obstacle. Certainly, racism injures us all — the stain of Donald Trump’s presidency will resist decades of furious scrubbing — whereas the fairer of us absorb its moral injury and beneﬁ  t from its economic, social and politi-cal boosts, as the darker-skinned only suffer, often violently.  
Few understand this with sharper clarity 
than writer Ta-Nehisi Coates. His most re-cent essay in the Atlantic, “The First White President”, dubs Trump while inspiring a frenzy of counters and double-counters. Crit-ics have balked at his ﬂ  agrant use of “identity politics” and his “zealous pursuit of a single cause;” supporters have derided them for “whitesplaining.” 
What the conversation around Coates’ es-
say lacks is any measure of nuance.
Coates’ brilliance does not make him in-
fallible. He may well have turned away from sexism’s role in Trump support or placed too much of the election’s weight on racism’s back. He may have interpreted causal relation-ships from data inappropriately, 
or even downplayed the political 
value of whites in America, who far outnumber every other racial category combined. These are all fair subjects for debate. 
Unfortunately, critics have ded-
icated too few of their sentences to debating them.
Again and again, those ﬁ  nding fault in 
Coates’ writing object to his “monocausal explanation” of Trump’s victory. In other words, they cry afoul that Coates would chalk a narrow electoral victory in a country as diverse as our own to so clean-cut a cause as racism, suggesting we ignore the very real plight of rural white America. 
But racism isn’t clean-cut, and Coates nev-
er makes an argument for the dismissal of all 
non-race-related factors.  
He doesn’t suggest the left should be 
faulted for scrambling to connect with the 
white working class; He suggests we fault them for their parallel unwilling-ness to scramble for connections with the black working class. They have endured the same derision and condescension as poor, rural 
whites with neither the banner of 
‘true-blooded’ Americanism nor the unanimous pity of America’s intelligentsia for cushions.
For Coates, white supremacy 
made Donald Trump president the same way it made me an outgoing 
man, only in a more obvious and absolute fashion. 
As a white male, I’m able to talk back to 
police ofﬁ  cers during trafﬁ  c stops without fear for my life; I can walk home alone drunk without fear of being raped; I can take risks at work without fear of punishment and be as-sertive without fear of being labeled a bitch. My parents can let me off their leash with little fear I’ll be killed before making it home and can punish me gently without fear that 
my next mistake will be my last. 
The world is an easier, friendlier, more 
fertile place for me to navigate than for my 
darker, Y-chromosome-less peers, and I’m more conﬁ  dent and hopeful because of it. Those are intangible, invaluable advantages. In Donald Trump’s case, Coates argues that they were the only ones. 
This disparate sense of opportunity is the 
goal of racism, as is the frustrating difﬁ  culty in which white people struggle to see it. 
With Trump having handily won the 
white vote no matter how it’s cut (income, education, geography, etc.), it’s easy to imag-ine a world in which a thriving, white work-ing class catapulted him to the presidency. Now consider the campaign of a black man with the same absence of experience, with 
any of the now countless career-ending mis-
steps. Would this man win a seat in the city council, much less the oval ofﬁ  ce?
Privilege is a blindfold, and rather than 
producing a bitter objection to an 8,000 word article after sitting on it for a day, perhaps the privileged should ﬁ  rst take time to digest the careful criticisms of a man who doesn’t wear one.
Champe Barton is a UF  economics and 
behavioral and cognitive neuroscience senior. 
His column usually appears on Tuesdays.Column
ColumnWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Convenience friendships don’t cut it; you need quality friends
'Privilege is a blindfold': Donald Trump's election and the issue of privilege
Crash Increases
Traffic crashes are trending an increase of 20% per year, and 
bicyclists make up 6% of the people using our area roadways...
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedShare the Road and
Check twice for motorcycles, 
bicycles and pedestrians Help Everyone
Stay Safe!
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.org
Champe Barton
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
A COPY OF THE RECEIPT 
WAS POSTED ON 
‘GAINESVILLE 
WORD OF MOUTH. ’
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Grabbing a drink from Tropi-
cal Smoothie Cafe is always the 
same for Cassandra Peoples. One “Detox Island” smoothie to-go — $5.49 at the register. 
However, when Peoples, 47, 
looked at her receipt Wednesday morning after leaving the cafe, located at 3345 SW 34th St., with her regular order, she saw the words “Black Chick” where the customer’s name usually reads on the receipt, the Gainesville native said. “That’s never happened before 
in my life, and I know things like that happen to people every day,” she said. “I’m pretty upset.” 
Peoples posted a picture of 
the receipt on her Facebook page to speak out. By noon, her friend 
Samantha Siragusa reposted it 
to the public Facebook group “Gainesville Word of Mouth,” a network for Gainesville residents that has more than 12,000 mem-bers. The post, which had re-ceived hundreds of reactions and comments, was taken down.
A spokesperson for corporate 
Tropical Smoothie, Andie Bieder-man, said the employee was ﬁ  red hours after the incident became public.
“This type of conduct clearly 
does not reﬂ  ect the values of our brand or our commitment to cre-ating a welcoming environment at each and every location,” Bieder-man wrote in an email. “We apol-ogize to all of our loyal guests.” 
Peoples said she didn’t want 
to speak on whether an employee should’ve been ﬁ  red or not. She 
also stressed that Julie Bartz, the 
general manager of the Tropical Smoothie branch, has to share some blame. Peoples said she’s had a number of run-ins recent-ly with employees from Bartz’ branch. 
“Recently, she’s hired a lot of 
unprofessional people there — 
I’ve had run-ins with other em-
ployees,” she said. “It’s up to her to hire them.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Rachel B. never imagined that 
when she would ﬁ  rst meet her state house representative, she’d be on her knees. 
More than 80 residents crowded 
into Emmanuel Mennonite Church to see Florida House Rep. Clovis Wat-son Jr., who represents District 20 — which includes parts of Alachua and Marion counties — speak at the Ala-chua County Labor Coalition’s meet-ing Tuesday about a range of issues, including giving felons back the right to vote.
Florida is one of four states that per-
manently bars felons from voting after they’ve served their time. In Maine and Vermont, felons never lose their voting rights, even when behind bars, he said. 
“How can you tell someone to get 
it right, if you’re going take their right away,” he told the crowd. “You got people who are 35, who can’t vote now for something they did when they were 18, most of them on drug charges.” 
Rachel, a Santa Fe College librar-
ian, chose to withhold her last name to avoid embarrassing her grand-
daughter, who is a UF student. The 
Gainesville resident of two years knelt during the nearly 90-minute meeting to be near Watson as he spoke. She said she attended the meeting to get more involved in local politics. 
“I can see why so many people put their trust in him,” she said. 
Jhody Polk, who was imprisoned 
nearly seven years for home invasion 
and grand theft, said non-violent felons 
see voting as a basic right.
Polk, 33, an organizer with Say 
YES to Second Chances, emphasized the importance of the November 2018 election, and passed around a petition for a vote on ex-felon voting rights. 
Say YES needs 700,000 signatures 
by Dec. 31 and currently has 124,000, 
she said. 
“I’m not asking for a second 
chance,” she said, to the audience’s 
standing ovation. “This is my ﬁ  rst chance. This is my only chance.”
 
@hoffdavid123Tropical Smoothie employee calls customer ‘Black Chick’
Rep. Clovis Watson Jr. talks voter 
rights at labor coalition meetingThe career showcase 
continues today Courtesy to the Alligator
Cassandra Peoples, a 47-year-old Gainesville resident, found the words 
“Black Chick” written in place of her name on her receipt on Wednesday morning after visiting Tropical Smoothie Cafe, located at 3345 SW 34th St.
about four companies to re-
ﬁ  ne her interviewing skills.
“We are here more for the 
experience of it, so we can be 
prepared for next time,” the 
19-year-old said. 
Matthew Martell, a 19-year-
old UF accounting sophomore, 
said he wasn’t initially plan-ning to go to the event because he thought he was too young. Martell’s professional speaking class required attendance so students could learn to give an 
elevator pitch. 
Martell said he ended up 
talking to a company that seemed interested in him. 
“I was really nervous to talk 
to them for the ﬁ  rst time be-
cause I’ve never done it before, but after talking about just nor-mal stuff and making conversa-tion, I felt a lot better about it,” Martell said.
Wearing something that 
looked professional was im-portant to Martell, he said. He 
dressed in a gray suit with a 
maroon tie.
“I didn’t want to be some-
body that stuck out for, like, not wearing enough,” he said. “I’d rather over-wear than under-wear.”SHOWCASE,  from pg 1WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
“Kingsman” Review:
Matthew Vaughn’s latest is crazier than the ﬁ  rst (pg. 
10)Chance the Rapper premieres new song: 
The artist performed the song on The Late Show (pg. 10)WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
A nine-piece band whose sound 
is deeply rooted in 1960s soul will make a nod toward the modern Fri-day at Heartwood Soundstage.
On Sept. 29 at 8 p.m., fans will 
experience a Savants of Soul live performance. For those who can-not attend in person, the same performance will be accessible for the price of a ticket on a livestream portal, broadcasted around the world for fans far and wide.
Heartwood Soundstage is a re-
cording studio and performance venue that has hosted several livestreams with a unique entry point of access. Payment creden-tials will take fans directly to the show without leaving the comfort of their homes.
“It’s like paying at the door to 
get in,” Savants of Soul drummer Alexander Klausner said.
Klausner was excited about the 
idea of performing for people that the band does not reach on the weekend tour circuit. The conve-nience of a livestream may be ideal for homebodies, but Klausner urg-es local fans to come to the show, as there isn’t much that beats the energy and experience of seeing a band perform live.
“If you have the opportunity as 
an out-of-town fan to see your fa-vorite band play, that’s what I’m into. But I don’t want anyone in Gainesville trying to tune in from their couch,” Klausner said. “I want them to be there loud and proud.”
Though Savants of Soul is no 
stranger to reaching fans far be-yond the Gainesville city limits, Friday’s performance will see sev-eral people tuned in as far as East Asia.
“I have family in Taiwan,” 
Klausner said. “So for me per-sonally, this is such an amazing thing because right around the time we’re going to be getting on stage, they’re going to be waking up and having their daily coffee 
and watching us from across the 
world.”
“It’s pretty exciting,” added 
Justin McKenzie, Savants of Soul’s 
lead vocalist. “We’ve been practic-ing pretty hard since this perfor-mance will be immortalized unlike our other shows. I’m a little ner-vous because I have family and friends out-of-state who haven’t seen us play yet.”
Opening for Savants of Soul this 
Friday is Violet Reverb, a rock ‘n’ roll band with blues and psyche-delic inﬂ  uences. The band consists of Will Campbell, David Rodriguez and Chris Shaw, though Friday’s performance will be a two-piece act featuring Campbell, who will play drums and perform backing vocals, and Rodriguez, who will play guitar and sing lead.
Campbell, who is good friends 
with Klausner, became friends with the Savants of Soul when he was a guitar substitute for their South by Southwest tour earlier this year in Austin, Texas.
“When Alex mentioned that 
they needed an opener for this 
event at Heartwood, we were hon-
ored to accept,” Campbell said. 
“Forming relationships with other 
bands is awesome; it’s all about making honest connections. My 
band that I drum for is going to 
open for a band that I play guitar 
for occasionally. It’s really cool.”
Campbell hopes that the 
livestream gives fans and family outside of Gainesville the opportu-
nity to watch them perform.
“We have never done anything 
like this before, so we are com-pletely stoked to be a part of it,” 
Campbell said. “It’s awesome that 
technology has gotten us to this 
point where we can make things 
like this happen.” 
After Friday’s show, Violet Re-
verb plans to take the next month 
to record a small six-to-seven track 
album.
Savants of Soul recently record-
ed their newest single, “Dead Man Running,” with producer Vince 
Chiarito of Charles Bradley and his 
Extraordinaires in his Brooklyn re-
cording studio. The single, to be re-
leased in 2018 with B-side “Missed 
Connections,” will be accompanied 
by a music video.
Live audience tickets can be 
purchased for $10 in advance at 
Eventbrite.com and $15 at the door. Audience members choosing to livestream the performance can pay $10 upon entrance to the stream, and the link will be posted to the band’s 
Photo by Suzanna Mars.
Savants of Soul, a local favorite, will switch things up this Friday by livestreaming their show.
Savants of Soul to perform, broadcast show via livestream
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Energetic electronic duo Golf Clap, from 
Detroit, will be performing at Simon’s Night-
club this Thursday, presented by Over Easy Creative and Lucid Nightlife.
Hugh Cleal and Bryan Jones are the musi-
cians behind Golf Clap, two trailblazers mak-ing an impact in the electronic music scene through their passion for DJing and electrify-ing performances. They’re currently coming through Gainesville on their 2017 tour.
Justin Correa, a 20-year-old UF health sci-
ence and pre-dentistry junior, said that as a promoter for Lucid Nightlife, he’s always hearing ﬁ  rsthand about up-and-coming DJs, which is where he heard about Golf Clap.
Correa said he instantly researched the 
pair on YouTube, and immediately fell in love with the group’s unique sound.“They are deﬁ  nitely techno magicians, 
and their music is very, very funky,” Cor-
rea said. “After listening to them, I deﬁ  nitely 
plan on attending this Thursday to just dance 
around and move all night.”
To someone who has never listened to 
Golf Clap before, Correa said their sound is very old-school techno, and compared them 
to Carl Cox and Richie Hawtin.
“Their sound is funky and consists of en-
ergetic sounds that keep your feet moving 
nonstop,” Correa said.
Every electronic music fan knows that a 
big part of a show, besides the music, is the performance, which is why Simon’s Night-club plans to accommodate fans looking for a light show. Correa said the new light-
ing system at Simon’s Nightclub includes 
screens and lights that create an “awesome 
rave-like atmosphere.”Mary Moran, a 23-year-old Florida State 
University biology and chemistry alumna 
and dedicated electronic fan, resides in Colo-
rado but is planning on making the road trip 
while visiting friends to see the show.
“Golf Clap really pushes the limits of the 
genre, and being able to attend a show, live, where you get to see how their minds work 
and the interactions they have with the audi-
ence is so rewarding,” Moran said. “Main-stream music tends to stay bottled up in a recording studio or publishing the next best 
thing, but Golf Clap seems so much more in 
tune with what fans really want.”
Moran said she’s looking forward to the 
performance itself, but also because Golf 
Clap has a way of connecting with their au-
dience.
“With all of the amazing DJs that have 
come to Gainesville, like Tchami, 3LAU, Funtcase, Loudpvck, Ghastly, Mija, Drezo 
and Getter, a lot of people from outside of 
Gainesville and in Gainesville are extremely 
hyped about the scene here,” Correa said.
With fans like Moran traveling from Col-
orado to Gainesville to see the show, this 
display of loyalty showcases how DJs have 
made an impact on Gainesville’s electronic 
music scene. Correa said that the local elec-
tronic crowd is currently thriving and is big-ger now than ever before.
“I’m excited to see all the people that go 
to the concert,” Correa said. “It’s always cool 
how these EDM events bring the rave com-
munity of Gainesville together.”
Golf Clap’s show will take place on Sept. 
28 at Simon’s Nightclub from 10 p.m. to 2 
a.m. Fans can purchase $10 presale tickets at 
Eventbrite.com. Producer duo Golf Clap to perform at Simon’s Thursday10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
On Monday night, Chance the Rapper 
took to The Late Show with Stephen Col-
bert to do what Chance does best: speak 
truth and drop new music.
In a special live performance, Chance 
released a brand new song with Cana-
dian singer/songwriter, Daniel Caesar. 
Fans know the “Coloring Book” rapper 
to tease clips from unreleased music 
through social media. The writing of and 
decision to release this new track, how-
ever, all came to fruition in a matter of days. 
While talking with Colbert, Chance 
revealed to viewers that he was origi-
nally set to perform “Grown Ass Kid,” 
an unreleased track from his 2016 al-bum, “Coloring Book.” Due to unspeci-ﬁ  ed circumstances, Chance was no lon-
ger comfortable performing the song, so 
the Saturday before the performance he wrote and prepared a new one. Chance announced the release at 6:19 p.m. Mon-day with a simple tweet: “I’ll be on @
colbertlateshow with @SterlingKBrown. 
Tune in I gotta new song. #chanceoncol-bert.”
The song is heart-wrenching and 
speaks to the struggles that Chance ex-periences on many levels. It touches on topics such as missing out on time with family, grappling with religion and temp-tation, the struggle for racial equality, safety for the poor, concerns for social justice and how fame complicates it all.
The ﬁ  rst two verses and choruses fea-
ture a stripped-down accompaniment from Caesar’s soulful electric guitar and vocals, in addition to harmony from a small chorus. Here, Chance speaks about 
missing out on time with his 2-year-old 
daughter, Kensli, because of touring and calls himself a “rich excuse for a father.” He describes experiences of being hound-
ed while trying to attend church and re-
minds listeners not to become compla-cent in the ﬁ  ght for equality with lines like, “have a dream and then never wake up.”
In the third verse, the tempo becomes 
more upbeat as Chance extends this sen-timent, reminding listeners not to stop believing in the “American dream” even 
when they see inequality in everyday life.
The following evening, Chance took to 
social media to announce that he had de-
cided on a name for the formerly untitled song: “#FirstWorldProblems.”
“Like Flint got clean water, and y’all 
don’t got teen daughters, and black friends and gay cousins,” the young art-ist rapped on screen. “Y’all just don’t 
say nothin’. Know that the day’s comin’. 
Knees bowed, tongues confessin’. The last one’s gettin’ ﬁ  rst dibs on blessings.”Chance the Rapper premieres new music on The Late Show 
MUSIC
Photo via Wikipedia.
Chance the Rapper discusses the price of fame and more on his latest track.
Photo via Wikipedia.
“Kingsman: The Golden Circle” premiered Friday 
to mixed reviews from critics.
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Contributor
If you thought “Kingsman: The Se-
cret Service” was outlandish enough, you’re in for quite a ride with the sequel. “Kick-Ass” director Matthew 
Vaughn returns for “Kingsman: The 
Golden Circle” and gets right to the 
action with a car chase through Lon-don with Prince’s “Let’s Go Crazy” blaring in the background.
The song sets the tone for the rest 
of the ﬁ  lm as it goes crazy with deaths by meat grinder, robot dogs and a tracking device placed into (for lack of a better term) private parts. The ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm was a good-natured ribbing at the sometimes-antiquated James Bond series, but the sequel goes off the rails.
For those who didn’t see the pre-
vious ﬁ  lm or aren’t familiar with the Kingsman comic book series, the Kingsman, a secret British private intelligence agency, recruited Eggsy (Taron Egerton) to join the service. 
Unfortunately, Harry Hart (Colin 
Firth), who “My Fair Lady”-ed Eggsy 
and acted as a sort of father ﬁ  gure, is killed before the conclusion of the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm (or so we thought).
Eggsy is now a freshly minted 
Kingsman in a relationship with Princess Tilde of Sweden (Hanna Alström), who you may recall from the infamous closing sex scene in the original. While Eggsy is meet-ing Princess Tilde’s royal family, the Kingsmen are killed one by one with geo-targeted missiles launched by the 
villain of the ﬁ  lm, Poppy (Julianne 
Moore). All that’s left of the Kingsmen 
is Eggsy and the tech guru named 
Merlin (Mark Strong).
Eggsy and Merlin initiate “dooms-
day protocol” and hop across the pond to the Kingsman’s American counterpart, the Statesman. Just as the Kingsman hide their agency un-der the guise of a posh tailoring shop on Savile Row, the Statesmen operate under the guise of a whiskey distillery in Kentucky.
Upon arriving, Eggsy discovers that 
Harry is still alive despite being shot point-blank in the head by Samuel L. Jackson’s character in the previous ﬁ  lm. Although alive, Harry’s memory has been lost, but it’s restored when Eggsy triggers his memories by threat-ening to shoot a puppy that resembles Harry’s deceased dog, Mr. Pickles.
With Harry’s memory back, the 
Statesmen and the remaining Kings-men team up to defeat Poppy, a ma-niacal drug lord who runs the world’s largest drug trafﬁ  cking ring called the Golden Circle. Poppy announces in a world-wide broadcast that millions of drug users have been infected by a deadly virus, and an antidote will be given if the President of the U.S. (Bruce Greenwood) agrees to legalize her drugs.
The President plans to do noth-
ing in response to Poppy’s threat, as he views it as a favor that would end 
the war on drugs. The Statesmen and 
Kingsmen learn this and travel to an 
Italian ski resort where boxes of the 
antidote are being kept. The resort serves as another homage to the Bond series as it bears resemblance to vil-lain Ernst Blofeld’s hideout in “On Her Majesty’s Secret Service.”
All in all, “Kingsman: The Golden 
Circle” is a step down from its pre-decessor with a mostly unintelligible plot.
The resurrection of characters who 
were seemingly dead makes the au-dience question whether death really means anything in this series.
Many of the Statesmen (Channing 
Tatum, Jeff Bridges, Halle Berry) are deprived of any character depth and it becomes obvious that the introduc-tion of the Statesman was an Ameri-can twist used to help box ofﬁ  ce sales.
Despite these shortcomings, the 
cameo from Elton John — who seems to have more screen time than most of the Statesmen — is hysterical and deﬁ  nitely worth seeing.
Those who enjoyed the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm 
will likely enjoy the sequel, but those unfamiliar with Kingsman might ﬁ  nd it too ridiculous. 
“Kingsman: The Golden Circle” is more of the same, but bigger 
MOVIESBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
CABANA BEACH APT! 1BR/1BA in 4BR/4BA $445/mo! Furnished. Utilities & amenities in-cluded! W/D in unit. Female only. Great pool, rec room. Close to UF & The Oaks Mall. No pets. Call 352-207-1039     9-29-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!" Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
2 - 2015 Kymco Like 200i motor scootersBoth in showroom condition. 500+/- miles. Electric start, smooth-shifting CVT automati Trans, 200 CCSOHC 4-stroke engine w/ EFI, front/rear disc brakes, 85-90 mpg., storage, windshield, new helmets included. Navy/black, Ivorybrown. $1500 each. Cash only. No delivery. Pick up in Sarasota. For more info call  941-809-3444    10-6-17-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestUnload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     10-2-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
1BR/1BA available for UF student only. Immediate move-in. Located very close to campus. Call Erica or Michelle 352-373-2700    9-29-17-3-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   12
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
Violinist seeking treble-clef-reading duet partner for paid gigs (flute or violin). Must be advanced (Bach Double, 3rd position, vi-brato). Please call Elizabeth 503-473-3295.     10-2-5-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-2-5-14
Now Hiring! Managers, Assistant Managers, & Associates for Goodwill stores. Start at $9.15/hr. Call (352) 335-1311 or visit Job Junction at 3520 SW 34th St. Apply online at goodwilljax.org      10-2-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
1. ANATOMY: Where is the muscle 
called latissimus dorsi located in the 
human body?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
When did the last Ice Age end?
3. RELIGION: What do the Four 
Horsemen of the Apocalypse repre-sent in the Book of Revelation?
4. GAMES: What color of clothing 
does Princess Peach wear in the Mario Brothers video games?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What business is 
London’s Fleet Street associated with?
6. U.S. STATES: Which state’s offi-
cial song is “Yankee Doodle”?
7. TELEVISION: What come-
dy show introduced the McKenzie Brothers?
8. MUSIC: How many characters 
were represented in the Village People 
disco group?
9. LITERATURE: How does the 
following proverb end: “Beggars 
can’t ... “?
10. HISTORY: What kind of plane 
did Charles Lindbergh fly across the Atlantic Ocean in 1927?
Answers
1. In the back2. About 11,700 years ago3. Pestilence (or conquest), war, fam-
ine and death
4. Pink5. The British national press6. Connecticut7. “SCTV”8. Six9. “... be choosers.”10. The Spirit of St. Louis was a 
single-engine, single-propeller mono-plane
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 25, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 19 Connections13   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND. Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Bored? Like to laugh?Need water to survive?If you said yes, google:"READY SET COMEDY PODCAST"It's for you!                                    9-29-4-21
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Got taller
5 Etching supplies
10 Ski area in Utah’s
Wasatch
Mountains
14 See 66-Across
15 Bad news for the
waiter
16 Classic cars17 Fall in love with
something at the
home
improvement
center?
19 “Pretty please?”
20 “Frasier” role
21 Debuting on
screen
23 iPhone, e.g.,
briefly
24 Scooby-__
25 Bring Bugs into
harmony?
30 Golf tee, e.g.
31 “Flashdance...
What a Feeling”singer Cara
32 Barbecue pair
33 Solo in a spotlight
35 Smallish
batteries
36 Med. condition
with repetitive
behavior
37 Get voices in all
ranges?
42 Colony resident
43 Gallery filler44 Went like crazy46 Second thought49 Get fuzzy, as
vision
51 Grand __ Opry52 Severely criticize
the store special?
54 “Breaking Bad”
org.
55 Org. offering
written and roadtests
56 Mason jar
attachment
57 Humdrum
59 Start bubbling61 Criticize the
stringed
instrument?
65 Greek peak
66 With 14-Across,
event with batons
67 Site with tech
reviews
68 __ end69 Wild West
transport
70 Run-of-the-mill
DOWN
1 __ Joe, Charlie’s
companion on his
tour of Wonka’s
chocolate factory
2 Time before TV
3 Environment-
related
4 “Where __ you?”5 Actress Ortiz of
“Ugly Betty”
6 Fish sticks fish
7 Midori on the ice8 Pop singer
Warwick
9 Binge
10 Reliever’s asset
11 Seize, as an
opportunity
12 Pooch in your
lap, maybe
13 Most people18 Actor Morales
22 Keep an eye on26 Personal attribute27 Rip (up)28 Opens, as an
official document
29 Commotions34 Jordan’s only
port36 In base eight38 No later than39 Space
40 Tiny tunes player
41 Big events for
film studios
45 Gives a hand46 Somewhat flabby
male physique,
informally
47 Diffuse slowly
through a
membrane48 Permit to enter
the States
49 Unwise wager50 Country’s
McEntire
53 Whopper
creators
58 Basics60 Young chap62 According to63 Give in to gravity
64 Word after eagle
or hawk
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/27/1709/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Sales pitch
6 Outback birds
10 Sunup
14 Café lure
15 Clickable
webpage word
16 Home to billions17 Grass shortener18 Apart from that19 Slightly wet20 Julie Andrews’
“The Sound ofMusic” role
23 Risk, e.g.
24 Healthful berry
25 Jimmy Fallon
hosts it
31 “Homeland” spy
org.
32 Taxi33 Nebraska city
34 “Apocalypse
Now” setting,familiarly
35 Gathering for
fans of graphic
novels, anime,etc.
38 Delivery vehicle39 Painting need41 Microwave
42 Valuable rock
43 Avengers
member with apatriotic shield
48 Tolstoy’s
Karenina
49 Dutch cheese50 9/26/1957
Broadway debutfeaturing theconsecutivesongs found at
the start of 20-
Across, the
middle of 25-Across and the
end of 43-Across
55 With 50-Down,
tightrope walker’s
place
56 Oscar winner
Kazan
57 Aquafina rival59 Craving60 Accelerates, with
“up”
61 Foolish62 Military meal
63 Cafeteria carrier
64 V-formation fliersDOWN
1 “Casablanca”
pianist
2 Formal school
dance
3 Corn Belt state
4 Rise into view
5 Cattleman’s rope
6 Late morning hr.
7 Venus de __8 Disentangle9 Quick drawing
10 Arp’s art
movement
11 Right away, in a
memo
12 Namby-pamby
person
13 Midday snooze
21 Gas brand that
had a torch in its
logo
22 Florida’s Boca __
25 Pageant winner’s
crown
26 Exaggerate, as a
stage role
27 Spanish island in
theMediterranean
28 Devastation
that’s wreaked
29 Scarlett of Tara30 Decrease in
intensity31 “Closing Bell”
channel
35 Repetitive shout
at a protest
36 Required little
effort
37 Newspaper
opinion pieces
40 Secret supplies
44 Add to text, as a
missing letter
45 Carpenter, at
times46 Suitable for all
ages, filmwise
47 Apple software for
creating videos
50 See 55-Across51 Omelet
ingredients
52 Prima donna53 Ready for picking54 Toy dog’s barks55 Play a kazoo58 TV’s “Science
Guy”
By Peter Gordon©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/26/1709/26/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 26, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Wellness 
1.  Computer ____5.  Circus ____
2.  Do away with 6.  Picture
3.  Mug7.  Protected from the sun
4.  Be present atTLAEHH
RACKHEOWCNL
GEMIA
BIALHSO
AADRTNKHDDASE
NTAEDTANSWERS: 1A-Health  5A-Clown  6A-Image  7A-Shaded
1D-Hacker  2D-Abolish  3D-Tankard  4D-Attend  B-Whale shark9-27-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: A ____ ____ can weigh up 
to about 60,000 pounds. BONUS
20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.21 Entertainment
Junior Gordon Neale helped 
carry the UF men’s golf team to its ﬁ  rst tournament win of the fall season in T exas. Read the story, pg. 15.Start time released for LSU vs. Florida football game
The SEC announced that the No. 21 Gators’ Oct. 7 Homecoming matchup 
against the No. 25 LSU Tigers will be played at 3:30 p.m. and broadcast on CBS. UF’s game this weekend against Vanderbilt will start at noon Saturday and be shown on ESPN.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
July 21 - Miller adds $1,970 to his UF Bookstore debit account using a Califor-nia woman’s credit card information. Later that day, Miller goes to the book-store and orders a MacBook Pro with a coupon including Beats headphones for a total of $1,330.19. Aug. 14 - Miller goes to the bookstore af-ter his order is disputed. Miller pays $500 
in cash and $830.19 in the form of a check to partially settle his bookstore debit account balance. Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD accuses Miller of credit card fraud. The complaint recommends two charges: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, and one for possession and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
Ventrell Miller
July 21 - Desir-Jones adds $1,970 to his UF Bookstore debit account using a Cali-fornia woman’s credit card information. 
Later than day, Desir-Jones goes to the bookstore and orders an Apple MacBook Pro with a coupon including Beats head-phones for a total of $1,829.67.Aug. 11 - Desir-Jones goes to the book-store after his order is disputed. He pays 
$1,829.67 to settle his bookstore debit account balance. Unknown date - Desir-Jones declines UPD interview. His lawyer tells UPD he advised Desir-Jones not to speak to police or make a statement.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD accuses Desir-Jones of credit card fraud. The complaint recommends two charges: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, and one for possession and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
Richerd Desir-Jones
July 18 to Aug. 1 - Smith adds $3,570 to his UF Bookstore debit account using multiple credit cards belonging to others. He goes to the bookstore and orders a MacBook Pro, MacBook Air, ﬁ  ve pairs of Beats headphones, and a bluetooth speaker, worth a combined $3,272.69.Aug. 2 - Smith pays $1,450 to UF Trans-portation and Parking using a Michigan 
man’s credit card information. Sept. 15 - Smith’s lawyer asks UPD if Smith can be charged with just a misdemeanor. An ofﬁ  cer tells the law-yer that it’s unlikely because of the volume of transactions and because he used several peoples’ credit cards.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD recommends 18 charges: 13 counts of fraudulent use of a credit card, four counts of using someone else’s credit card without con-sent, and one for obtaining property under $20,000.
Jordan Smith
July 28 - Davis adds $1,600 to his UF Bookstore debit account using credit card information belonging to someone else. Later that day - Davis goes to the book-store and orders a MacBook Pro with a coupon including Beats headphones. He also purchases a bluetooth speaker. The total cost comes to $1,330.20. 
Aug. 8 - Davis goes to the bookstore after his order is disputed. He pays $20 with a credit card to partially settle his bookstore debit account balance. Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD accuses Davis of credit card fraud. The complaint recommends two charg-es: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, and one for possession and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
Keivonnis Davis
July 23 - Scarlett adds $1,940 to his girl-friend’s UF Bookstore debit account using a California man’s credit card information. July 26 - Scarlett and his girlfriend go to the bookstore and order a MacBook Pro with a coupon including Beats headphones for a total of $1,809.44. Aug. 23 - Scarlett’s girlfriend tells UPD she wasn’t aware the funds in her bookstore 
account were stolen and says Scarlett told her the money came from an agent in New York. Aug. 30 - Scarlett tells UPD the money came from an agent and that Jordan Smith put it in his girlfriend’s account. Scar-lett said he used his girlfriend’s account to minimize risk.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD recommends two charges: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, and one for possession and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
Jordan Scarlett
June 30 - Rick Wells adds $875 to his UF Bookstore debit account using credit card information belonging to an unknown person. Later that day, Wells goes to the bookstore and orders two iPads, one gold, one silver, for $849.87.Aug. 22 - Wells tells UPD his girlfriend added the money to his account. Wells says he legitimately ordered an iPad for 
himself and his girlfriend. Police tell Wells he has to return with the iPads. Wells says he will but never returns with the iPads and does not answer calls from an ofﬁ  cer. Aug. 28 - Wells’ girlfriend says the money came from her 
Citi card, which contradicts evidence from the bookstore.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD accuses Wells of credit card fraud and recommends two charges: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, one for posses-sion and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
Rick Wells
June 26 to July 22 - Telfort takes $1,539.52 worth of funds using credit card information belonging to multiple people. 
He orders three iPads, an iPad mini with insurance (later returned), three Sony Playstation gift cards and two more gift cards from the UF Bookstore. He also places four online food orders for deliv-ery, including burgers from Relish and 
Sonic as well as candy from a BP gas station.Aug. 8 to Aug. 14 - Telfort pays $1,000 to the UF Book-store to partially settle his debit account balance.Sept. 13 - Telfort’s lawyer tells University Police the “amount stolen” would lead to felony arrests because play-ers made “bad decisions.” Telfort’s lawyer asks for special treatment because his client is a UF football player.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD recommends 30 various charges for Telfort, the most of any player.
Kadeem T elfort
July 21 - Houston adds $550 to his UF Bookstore debit account using a Cali-fornia man’s credit card information. Later that day, Houston goes to the UF Bookstore and orders an iPad. The total for the order is $424.94Aug. 11 - Houston goes back to the bookstore after his order is disputed by the California man. Houston pays 
$424.94 to settle his debit account balance.Unknown Date - Houston’s lawyer tells UPD he’s ad-vised Houston not to speak to police or make a statement.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from University Police accuses Houston of credit card fraud. The complaint rec-ommends two charges: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, and one for possession and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
James Houston
July 16 - Callaway adds $1,970 to his UF Bookstore debit account using a California man’s credit card informa-tion. July 17 - Callaway goes to the book-store and orders a MacBook Pro with a coupon including Beats headphones for a total of $2,022.44 (using $60 cash). Aug. 8 - Callaway goes to the book-
store after his order is disputed. Callaway pays $2,000 in cash to settle his bookstore debit account balance.Sept. 25 - A sworn complaint from UPD accuses Callaway of credit card fraud. The complaint recommends two charges: one for fraud/obtaining property for under $20,000, and one for possession and use of someone else’s credit card without consent.
Antonio Callaway
Sworn complaints iled Monday by University Police state that nine Florida football players committed more than 
$17,000 worth of credit card fraud this summer. Each of the players committed at least $550 worth of fraud, accord-
ing to the reports. A combined total of 62 charges were recommended for the nine players, with each player receiv-
ing at least two recommended charges. None of the players have formally been charged by the state attorney’s oice. 
Here is a full breakdown of accusations levied against each player, per the complaints:Notorious 9: UPD’s timeline of events for suspended playersWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Week 3 of the NFL season has come and 
gone, and some former Gators had solid perfor-
mances for their respective professional teams. Here’s a look at how some of those players did last weekend in this edition of Gators in the 
NFL:
Jacoby Brissett’s big day:
Indianapolis Colts quarterback Jacoby Bris-
sett played well in the Colts’ 31-28 win over the Cleveland Browns.
The former Gator completed 17-of-24 pass-
es – including a 61-yarder to T.Y. Hilton – for 259 yards and one touchdown. He also scored 
two rushing touchdowns.
Brissett was drafted in the third round of 
the 2016 NFL draft by the New England Pa-
triots and spent his rookie campaign behind Tom Brady and Jimmy Garoppolo on the depth chart. Brissett played in three games last sea-son as a reserve, completing 34-of-55 passes for 400 yards.
Brissett will start for the Colts again this 
week against the Seattle Seahawks. But, with Andrew Luck reportedly returning to practice this week, it is unclear how much longer Bris-sett will stay in the starting role.
Bostic, Morrison lead Colts defense:Two more bright spots for the Colts this week were linebackers Jon Bostic and Antonio Morrison, who finished first and second on the 
team in tackles, respectively.
Bostic recorded 10 tackles, eight of which were solo, and deflected one pass against 
the Browns. He has 21 tackles through three 
games this year and is on track to break his 
career high.Morrison made seven total tackles (four 
solo, three assisted) in the Colts’ win on Sun-day. Coming off a rookie season in which he had 52 tackles, Morrison is expected to be a big contributor on defense this year. It’s start-ing to show, as he has 11 tackles through two games in 2017.
Other standout performances:A few other former Gators defenders put up 
big numbers in Week 3 of the NFL season.
Atlanta Falcons defensive back Brian Poole 
recorded a team-high nine tackles (seven solo, two assisted) in a 30-26 win against the Detroit Lions. He also deflected two passes.
New Orleans Saints linebacker Alex Anza-
lone made seven tackles (four solo, three as-sisted), in the Saints’ 34-13 win against the Carolina Panthers. He finished tied for second on the team in tackles and has 15 tackles on the season.
Cincinnati Bengals defensive end Carlos 
Dunlap and Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end Dante Fowler Jr. both recorded sacks in their team’s respective games. 
Dunlap added three solo tackles in Cincin-
nati’s 27-24 loss to the Green Bay Packers, as well as three quarterback hits, and Fowler Jr. had two tackles and one quarterback hit in the Jaguars 44-7 win against the Baltimore Ravens.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBrissett scores two TDs; pair of Colts LBs have strong outings
The Associated Press
Colts quarterback Jacoby Brissett, who played for the Gators from 2011 to 2012 
before transferring to NC State, threw for 259 yards in a win vs. Cleveland on Sunday.
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
Florida came away victorious at the 
Trinity Forest Invitational on Tuesday, but 
for a while, it didn’t appear as if its triumph 
was meant to be.
As Round 2 came to a 
close in Dallas on Mon-
day, Florida was fortunate 
to even have a share of 
first place. Star senior Ale-jandro Tosti lost the lead he held throughout most 
of the tournament after 
a bogey-filled back nine, 
nearly costing the Gators a chance to win. 
Florida limped into the final round on 
Tuesday trying to notch its first victory of the year, despite its loss of momentum.
The Gators faced hardship from the get-
go in Dallas. In their first tournament ear-lier this month, UF relied on Tosti to put up 
big numbers to counter poor performances 
from the rest of his teammates.
However, Tosti wasn’t as strong this 
week, failing to get it going during the final 
round. He shot 4 over and dropped all the 
way to a tie for 20th after being tied for sixth heading into Tuesday. Florida could have folded as a result of its leader’s strug-gles, but it didn’t.
For Gordon Neale, it had been an aver-
age tournament after two rounds. He was in the top 25, but was only 1 over par. How-ever, something clicked for the junior on 
Tuesday.
He posted a career-low 8 under, the low-
est score of any golfer in the final round by 
3 strokes. He shot 20 spots up the leader-board, finishing in second place and seal-
ing the Gators first tournament win of the young season with a 10-stroke victory over 
Auburn and Texas Tech.
“Today was an amazing day for our 
team,” coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. “We’ve been working so hard to be patient and discipline in the big moments and we 
did exactly that today.”
Andy Zhang, inserted into the team’s 
five-man lineup for the first time this sea-
son, impressed once again on Tuesday. He was 4 under for the day and moved into a 
tie for third place, joining Neale in the top 
five.
“For Gordon and Andy to lead us the 
way they did today is special,” Deacon said. 
“They are both going to be integral to our 
success.”
Freshman Chris Nido had a solid first 
round and a disastrous second round, but got things under control on the tourna-
ment’s final day, shooting even par and 
moving up to a tie for 29th in the final lead-erboard.
The other freshman in the lineup, John 
Axelsen, played well in the second round, shooting a career-best 70, but he shot a 74 in the final round and fell to a tie for 49th.
While the Gators certainly didn’t get the 
results they expected out of Tosti in the fi-
nal two rounds, strong performances from 
other members of the team should give Dea-con’s squad confidence moving forward, especially after taking a piece of hardware 
back home to Gainesville.
“Wins like today don’t happen too often 
so I’m going to make sure everyone really 
enjoys it,” Deacon said. “That was the defi-nition of a team win.”
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgGordon Neale’s final round leads 
men’s golf team to win in DallasYou remember when you 
were a kid and you’d get caught 
in a lie?
You didn’t want to get in 
trouble, so you’d start mud-dling the truth with something entirely different, hoping to 
divert attention away from the 
initial lie. Smart kid logic.
That’s pretty much what’s 
going on in the world today, except it’s our president who is doing the muddling.
In the 2016 NFL preseason, former San 
Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepe-rnick took a stand against racial inequal-ity.
He took a seat during the national an-
them, and proceeded to kneel during the anthem in later weeks.
Kaepernick’s message was loud and 
clear, and he never wavered from his ini-
tial mindset.
“I am not going to stand up to show 
pride in a flag for a country that oppresses 
black people and people of color,” Kaepe-
rnick said to reporters after a preseason 
game in August of 2016. “To me, this is bigger than football and it would be self-ish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people 
getting paid leave and getting away with 
murder.”
Never once did he say he was protest-
ing the national anthem. Never once did 
he say he was anti-military.
As the national media covers nearly 
every NFL team “protesting the anthem,” 
the reasoning for why they’re doing it has been completely shifted to the back-
burner.
It’s more about “they’re protesting,” 
rather than “they’re protesting because…”
And according to the loudest voice in our nation, Donald Trump, this 
has nothing to do with inequal-ity, but rather disrespect to-
ward the American flag.
In any of his fiery tweets, 
you’ll never see Trump actually 
acknowledge what the move-
ment is for, but you’ll sure as 
hell hear him call for their jobs.
“If a player wants the privi-
lege of making millions of dollars in the NFL…he or she should not be allowed to 
disrespect our Great American Flag (or 
Country)…If not, you’re fired,” Trump tweeted on Saturday. “Find something else to do.”
This is the same man who tweeted 
just a day after officially taking office that he supported peaceful protests. The same man that said that there were “fine people” on the side of white national-
ists when they were marching through 
the streets with weapons in hand and lit torches.
Those actions are meant to induce 
fear. Kneeling doesn’t. Yet the latter is a no-no?
I heard ESPN radio host Mike Golic 
say earlier this week he hopes NFL play-ers got the protest out of their system and 
are now ready to put the focus back on 
football.
That’s missing the entire point. Play-
ers and people alike are trying to force 
change. This isn’t a one-week ordeal, and 
it shouldn’t be.
These “millionaire, disrespectful” 
athletes are trying to provide a voice for countless others who have none.
And this is just the beginning. 
Skyler Lebron is a sports writer. Con-
tact him at slebron@alligator.org.Don’t forget why NFL players protestSky Dolla $ign / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
@SkylerLebron
Neale
GATORS IN THE NFL16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2017
SUNDA Y
MEN’S TENNIS @ ITA ALL-AMERI-
CAN (PRE-QUALIFYING) IN TULSA, 
OKLAHOMA
VOLLEYBALL VS. LSU, 3 P .M., SEC 
NETWORK
MEN’S GOLF @ NIKE COLLEGIATE 
INVITATIONAL IN NORTH PLAINS, 
OREGON
WOMEN’S TENNIS @ RIVIERA ITA 
ALL-AMERICAN CHAMPIONSHIPS 
(PRE-QUALIFYING) IN PACIFIC 
PALISADES, CALIFORNIA, ALL DA Y
SOCCER @ GEORGIA, 6 P .M., ESPNUFRIDA Y 
VOLLEYBALL VS. TENNESSEE, 7 
P .M., SEC NETWORK +
SATURDA Y
FOOTBALL VS. V ANDERBILT, 
NOON, ESPN
WOMEN’S TENNIS @ RIVIERA ITA 
ALL-AMERICAN CHAMPIONSHIPS 
(PRE-QUALIFYING) IN PACIFIC 
PALISADES, CALIFORNIA
MEN’S TENNIS @ ITA ALL-AMERI-
CAN (PRE-QUALIFYING) IN TULSA, 
OKLAHOMATHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS UPD recommends 62 felony charges
more than $1,500 to their accounts, 
according to sworn complaints by 
UPD. Bookstore employees told po-
lice that students usually add about $300 per semester. Before contacting 
police, bookstore employees reported 
the activity to the UAA Compliance 
Ofﬁ  ce, according to the report, which is likely why seven players were sus-
pended before police began their in-
vestigation.The bookstore began to receive an 
unusual amount of chargebacks — when cardholders dispute a charge. Employees told police they usually 
receive about ﬁ  ve chargebacks per 
year, but recently received an inﬂ  ux 
of chargebacks coming from two bookstore accounts, one belonging to 
Smith and one belonging to a woman 
believed to be Scarlett’s girlfriend, according to reports. Employees 
noticed similar instances where ac-
counts were being ﬁ  lled with credit card information that didn’t belong to the account holders, and employees 
told police some players saved the card information in their accounts, 
possibly for future purchases, accord-
ing to reports. Employees told police 
that the players were coming to the store in person to order electronics 
through their accounts. 
Florida athletics director Scott 
Stricklin said in a statement that UAA 
is taking the matter seriously.
Alligator File Photo
Standout receiver Antonio Callaway is one of the nine suspended players accused of credit card fraud by UPD.FOOTBALL,  from pg 1