We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 100 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
Florida ﬁ  ghting illness before 
Georgia
The UF gymnastics team may have to change its lineup with multiple Gators sick, pg. 14
UF Alert suspect located, arrested 
He is suspected of committing two armed robberies, pg. 3
Director of UF LGBTQ Aﬀ  airs to resign today
She is leaving after six months at UF, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A masked UF student was tack-
led and handcuffed at UF on Thurs-day after stealing a money box containing more than $1,000 from Krishna Lunch.
University Police arrested An-
thony Alexander Davila-Stirling, 21, a UF advertising junior, on charges of theft and wearing a 
mask in public, according to a po-
lice report released hours after the incident.
After waiting in line on the Pla-
za of the Americas at about 1 p.m., 
ostensibly to order food from the Krishna Lunch vendors, Davila-Stirling snatched a tan money box and sprinted away.
He didn’t make it far. Another 
UF student, who witnessed the rob-bery, chased Davila-Stirling down and tackled him while two others helped hold him down until police could arrive.
David Malcolm, 18, and his roommate were slacklining on Pla-za of the Americas when they saw Davila-Stirling run past them. They chased after him, and Malcolm’s roommate tackled him onto the grass just west of Library West.
“It was my roommate that 
caught him ﬁ  rst,” said Malcolm, a UF wildlife ecology and conserva-tion and geology freshman. “I just helped him hold the guy down.”
Caitanya Long, 48, the general 
manager of Krishna Lunch, which has long served its vegetarian and vegan food to UF students and faculty on campus, said Davila-Stirling seemed like he was going to order food.
When it was his turn to step 
up to the table, however, Davila-Stirling — dressed in a dark hoodie and a ski mask with a pink skel-eton on it — threw a black credit card onto the table the Krishna em-ployees set up to take orders, seem-ingly as a way to distract them.
The card slid off the table, and 
an employee of Krishna House leaned down to pick it up. At that point, Davila-Stirling snatched the money box from in front of her and ran.
“Thief!” Long yelled after him. 
“Call the cops!”
Lacie Rosser, the employee who 
was sitting behind the table with Long, said Davila-Stirling seemed suspicious while he was waiting in line.
“I was watching him when he 
Student tackled after stealing $1,000 from Krishna Lunch
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
SCHOLARS AGAINST TRUMP
Leonardo A. Villalón, the UF International Center dean and an African studies professor, speaks at the Academics United - No to Visa and Immigration Ban protest. He encouraged students to keep demonstrating their discontent toward the ban and to engage in arguments with others using facts and statistics. “The university cares and is ﬁ  ghting on your behalf, ” Villalón said.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Farimah Farahmandi has wo-
ken up every morning for the past 
two weeks wishing what hap-pened was a bad dream.
“All of my hopes and dreams 
were faded with just one signa-ture,” said the UF computer sci-
ence doctoral student. 
Farahmandi, 28, and two other 
doctoral students organized a pro-
test Thursday on Turlington Plaza against the signature: President 
Donald Trump’s on an executive 
order that attempted to halt travel to the U.S. from seven Muslim-majority countries.  
About 50 people attended the 
protest,  held as part of a series across the nation called Academ-
ics United - No to Visa and Immi-
gration Ban. Scholars from more than 40 American universities protested the ban simultaneously.
Guita Banan, a UF physics doc-
toral student from Iran, a country affected by the travel freeze, said 
she thinks the ban will halt sci-
entiﬁ  c developments in the U.S. because international scientists won’t feel welcome.
“No scientist would want to 
live in a situation like this, where you could wake up one morn-ing and ﬁ  nd everything that you worked for so hard just gone,” 
said the 29-year-old, who helped 
organize the protest.
Farahmandi, who is also from 
Iran, said she doesn’t know if she’ll be able to stay in the coun-
try after graduating in Fall. 
“I didn’t do anything wrong,” 
she said. “I wrote articles. I wrote 
book chapters. I studied. I did re-UF scholars protest 
Trump’s travel ban
By Issac Heller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Christina Cinca was 13 when 
she held her sick heart in her 
hand.
Her doctors, of UF Health Shands Hospital, brought it to 
her after an eight-hour surgery in 
September 2014. Since she was 7, she suffered from restrictive car-
diomyopathy, a rare disease that 
prevented her heart from properly 
ﬁ  lling with blood. In the palm of her hand, the 
blond-haired preteen held a piece 
of her that had limited her life. But she was no longer tied down. 
“I got to touch it and I got to 
look at it and it was just a really 
weird moment knowing that, you know, this really vital organ was not inside of me anymore and I 
had, like, somebody else’s,” said Christina, now 15.
She was one of 31 pediatric pa-
tients to receive a heart transplant 
at the hospital between July 2013 
to December 2015. 
In a report released Jan. 5, the 
Scientiﬁ  c Registry of Transplant Recipients, a national database, 
ranked UF Health Shands Hos-
pital as the No. 1 pediatric heart transplant program in the U.S.
Because of the 23 people who 
make up the hospital’s transplant 
team, all 31 of those children sur-
vived at least a year with their 
new hearts. UF Health’s pediatric heart transplant program saves livesSEE KRISHNA,  PAGE 8
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 9
SEE HEART,  PAGE 8It was ranked No. 1 in the nationCRIMEWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show
Local applied arts company 
CerridwenWorks, with as-sistance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education and the UF Center 
for Arts in Medicine, is pro-
ducing an empowerment art show and performance art 
showcase for the semiannual 
anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be today and Saturday at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. A pub-lic display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on both days from noon to 6 p.m. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more information.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
MuseumSpend Valentine’s Day eve-ning at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia. The museum is open from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The fee is $30 per person or $50 per couple. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only. Pre-registration is required. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/ grid/valentine-event or call 352-273-2061.
Kristian Black: Being a Person 
of Color in MedicineKristian Black, a second-year medical student at the University of Michigan and the admissions ambassador at the University of Michigan Medical School, will speak about how he navigates his identity as a black man within a top-10 uni-versity Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs classroom in the Reitz Union, Room 2201. The event will be hosted by Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs and Black Affairs.
The Diversity Project: Kitty 
OliverThe Center for Arts in Medicine is pleased to host UF alum-na Kitty Oliver on Thursday and Feb. 17. Oliver will pres-ent "An Evening of Jazz and Multicolored Memoirs" at the Historic Thomas Center on Thursday at 7:30 p.m., "Race and Change Across Cultures and Generations" at Constans Theater on Feb. 17 at 2 p.m. and "Telling YOUR Story, Changing 
OUR Lives: Using Oral Histories 
on Race and Change to Make 
a Difference" in Fine Arts 
Building B, Room 105, on Feb. 17 at 7:30 pm. These special 
presentations are intended to 
bring the community together 
to share ideas and promote dis-
cussion around issues of race and diversity. Oliver’s visit is 
part of The Diversity Project, 
a program that explores issues 
around diversity at UF through oral histories, interviews and story circles.
iSTEAM Speaker Series
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents UF engineering graduate and contestant on “MythBusters: 
The Search,” Tracy Fanara, 
who will speak at Marston 
Science Library on Thursday at 2 p.m. in Room L136. Fanara, a scientist at the Mote Marine Laboratory, will speak about her “MythBusters” experience, research on Florida beaches and waterways and storm-chasing. The iSTEAM Speaker Series presents topics of inter-est to students majoring in sci-ence, technology, engineering, arts and math.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealthIsabel Moreira will explore the relationship between wealth, almsgiving and perceptions of the afterlife in Europe be-tween the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take place Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more information, email humanities-center@ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.
An evening of Finnish folk mu-
sic Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music” on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. Ave. The performing and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English and their native language, Finnish. This free musical program will be in Meeting Room A. For more information about library programs, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.‘Words on Canvas’: the Harn 
writing competition Write yourself into the art 
museum. “Words on Canvas” 
is a poetry and prose writing competition at the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum of Art for UF 
and Santa Fe College students 
inspired by art. Winning con-
testants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/
wordsoncanvas. The deadline 
to enter is March 17.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3 
How can you practice affirma-
tive consent? Learn some strat-
egies from Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education during GatorWell’s 
Sexual Consent Campaign 
Phase 3. Check it out at gator-
well.ufsa.ufl.edu/ or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-4452 for more information and to re-quest materials.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION:
In an article published Feb. 9 titled “Santa Fe officials of-fer international students sup-port,” the Alligator incorrectly reported the directory informa-tion exclusion would prevent the college from reporting stu-dents' personal information or immigration status to the U.S. government. The college will still have to give information when required by law.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 100
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  70° LOW  47°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
VALENTINE’S DAY DINNER
                  AT THE WAREHOUSE                                     AT THE WAREHOUSE                                     AT THE WAREHOUSE                                     AT THE WAREHOUSE                   
MAKE A RESERVATION  
Give us a call, make a reservation and 
enjoy free champange with your dinner
352-240-6432
FIND US ON FACEBOOK
facebook.com/WarehouseGainesvilleYou can also make your reservation 
online by visiting warehousedining.com                  AT THE WAREHOUSE                   
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Our tax pros will prepare & ﬁle your 
federal 1040EZ for free. Enter our 
drawing to win a $25 Visa Gift Card! Valid at our ofﬁce only. Bring this ad.
BLOCK ADVISORS
5010 Newberry Rd. Ste. A
Gainesville 32608 · 352-372-7269
Valid for 2016 personal 
income tax return only. Type of federal return /f_iled is based on your personal tax situtation 
and IRS rules. Additional fees apply may apply. OBTP#B13696 Copyright 2017 HRB Tax Group, Inc.
FILEFREE.
IT’S THAT EZ.VALID 
02/01-02/27THE DIRECTOR OF BLACK 
AFFAIRS IS ALSO LEAVING 
WEDNESDAY.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
The director of LGBTQ Affairs is resign-
ing today after six months at UF.
Roxie Patton announced Feb. 1 that she 
would be leaving for a different job, said 
Will Atkins, the interim executive director of UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs. 
He said Patton will be leaving for a posi-
tion with diversity affairs at the College of William and Mary in Virginia.
Patton began her position at UF on Aug. 
8, 2016, Atkins said.
“We anticipated her possible transition,” 
Atkins said, adding that Patton wanted to pursue other opportunities.
Patton couldn’t be reached for comment.Several of the LGBTQ Affairs student am-
bassadors declined to comment or could not be immediately reached.Vee Byrd, the director 
of UF Black Affairs, also plans to leave for a new position Wednesday. 
Byrd will take a posi-
tion as the associate direc-
tor of student engagement 
at Florida State College at Jacksonville. 
She said the new position will allow her 
to grow as a professional, and it was time to move on from UF.
Atkins said UF hopes to ﬁ  ll the vacant positions over the Summer. A search team will be assembled to look for new candi-dates. In the meantime, the department’s administration and graduate assistants will cover the responsibilities of Byrd and Pat-ton.
“We’re excited for (Patton) and very 
supportive of her in this transition,” Atkins said. “I think she wanted to pursue a differ-ent opportunity.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org After six months, director of LGBTQ Affairs to resign
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
PUSHING THEIR BUTTONS
A group of three students pick out limited-edition Gator buttons after 
participating in a welcome video for the incoming class of 2021 on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Thursday afternoon. The buttons depicted “Salt Bae, ” a popular internet meme, as a Florida Gator making a pizza.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — A federal appeals 
court refused Thursday to reinstate President Donald Trump’s ban on travelers from seven predominantly Muslim nations, unanimously rejecting the administration’s claim of presi-dential authority and questioning its motives.
The panel of three judges from the San 
Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap-peals declined to block a lower-court ruling that suspended the ban and allowed previ-ously barred travelers to enter the U.S.
The court battle is far from over. The lower 
court still must debate the merits of the ban, and an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court seems likely. That could put the decision in the hands of a divided court that has a va-cancy. Trump’s nominee, Neil Gorsuch, could not be conﬁ  rmed in time to take part in any consideration of the ban.
Moments after the ruling was released, Trump tweeted, “SEE YOU IN COURT,” add-ing that “THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!”
In response, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, 
a Democrat who leads one of the states that challenged the ban, said, “Mr. President, we just saw you in court, and we beat you.”
The appeals panel said the government 
presented no evidence to explain the urgent need for the executive order to take effect im-mediately. The judges noted compelling pub-lic interests on both sides.
“On the one hand, the public has a pow-
erful interest in national security and in the ability of an elected president to enact policies. And on the other, the public also has an inter-est in free ﬂ  ow of travel, in avoiding separa-tion of families and in freedom from discrimi-nation.”
The court rejected the administration’s 
claim that it did not have the authority to re-view the president’s executive order.
Federal appeals court refuses to reinstate Trump travel ban HE USED THE SAME 
BLUE BAG IN MULTIPLE 
ROBBERIES. 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
The suspect in two armed rob-
beries, both of which triggered UF 
Alerts, has been located.
Gainesville Police arrested Korey 
Der’renard Gunn, 23, in connection 
to robberies at a Chevron gas sta-
tion on Feb. 3 and a Winn-Dixie liquor store on Wednesday, accord-ing to a police report.
In each instance, Gunn held 
a semi-automatic BB gun to a ca-shier’s head and demanded money, according to the report.
After each robbery, UF alerts were emailed and texted to stu-dents, both ending the same: sus-pect not located.
After the 
robbery at the Chevron, locat-
ed at 1024 W. 
University Ave., 
the cashier told police she rec-ognized Gunn as a frequent customer. Police 
then found photos of him on Face-book brandishing the same weapon 
and wearing the same shoes from 
the gas station’s surveillance video.
Four days later, Gunn entered 
the Winn-Dixie liquor store, at 2002 SW 34th St., carrying the same blue bag he used at the Chevron and threatening a cashier with his fake gun, according to the report.
Later that day, police pulled over 
a vehicle, in which Gunn was a pas-senger. Inside, they located the BB gun, clothing he had been wearing during the robberies — and their 
suspect.
Police arrested Gunn Thursday  
morning on violation of probation 
warrant and charge him with two counts of armed robbery. Authori-ties took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, with no bond.
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias said police are still investi-gating other armed robberies, for which Gunn may have been re-sponsible.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org UF Alert suspect located, arrestedPatton
Gunn
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
By Sophia Carballo
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Veteran Mark Weekley watched his Ma-
rine Corps friends get sent home for debilitat-
ing injuries while serving. 
“There were quite a few injuries through-
out the years of several people that ... wound 
up having to get medical discharges because 
they couldn’t perform the way they were sup-posed to,” Weekley, 53, said. 
UF researchers are ﬁ  nding new ways to 
manufacture bones and tissue to help get soldiers back on their feet with a $15 mil-lion grant from the Advanced Regenerative Manufacturing Institute, said David Hahn, the chair of the UF Department of Mechanical and 
Aerospace Engineering.
Over the next ﬁ  ve years, soldiers could 
continue ﬁ  ghting in the military by having their limbs replaced with bio-manufactured 
material that performs as well as the original and is not rejected by the body, Hahn, 53, said. 
“The long-term goal of organ and tissue 
replacement is truly the future of the intersec-tion of engineering and medicine,” he said. 
Hahn said the difﬁ  culty of creating living 
cells is twofold: to not damage the cells during printing and to allow the body to accept the artiﬁ  cial replacement. 
Weekley said he is intrigued by the tech-
nology because he knows people who could have beneﬁ  ted from it during his time in the military.
“If something could have been done with 
their limbs to reconstruct or to help them, then any new technology would be a beneﬁ  t to anyone and everyone in any branch of the military,” he said.UF researchers to create 
artiﬁ  cial bones for soldiers
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Seventy-two UF medical and physician as-
sistant-school students will take a break from 
their textbooks for the next two weeks to put on a series of musicals for hospital patients, and adults and children with disabilities.
White Coat Company, the UF College of 
Medicine’s theatrical troupe, will debut “Her-cules,” its annual Disney musical, tonight for friends and family at UF Health Shands Hospi-tal before kicking off a ﬁ  ve-show run.
They will perform for about 600 adults 
with disabilities at Tacachale, a Gainesville-based developmental disability center; about 20 patients at the Shands pediatric ward; and 
about 200 students at the Sidney Lanier Cen-
ter, a school for developmentally challenged children.Ly Velez, a UF ﬁ  rst-year medical student, 
will play Meg, the lead female role.
“It’s an opportunity to meet people in a dif-
ferent setting where you’re not super stressed or talking about molecules all the time,” Velez, 21, said, adding that she’s excited to perform for the children.
Sonora Williams, a UF second-year medical 
student, was an actress in last year’s “Beauty and the Beast” musical and is the director of this year’s show.
The kids at Shands are Williams’ inspi-
ration to work in the musical because she dreams of becoming a pediatric neurosurgeon someday, she said. 
“I didn’t want to do this,” the 23-year-
old said, “but I realized that for some people that were in the play last year, this is all they had. This was their only outlet from medical school.” Medical students to perform 
musicals for patients, disabled FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
Kirstin Cutts will never forget the 
nickname Kobe Bryant was given 
during the Beijing Olympic. 
Peter Pan.When put to the test on national 
TV Wednesday, as a contestant on trivia show “Jeopardy!”, the 28-year-old drew a blank.
While upset at her lapse in 
knowledge, the Eastside High School graduate still won, making it her sec-ond night in a row.
Cutts, who won $11,001 on 
Wednesday’s show and $14,601 on 
Thursday’s, will continue her win-
ning streak tonight.
Asked how she prepared, Cutts 
pointed to long nights playing bar trivia with her professors and friends at the University of Texas. Then she took an online “Jeopardy!” test in January 2016.
“I didn’t expect anything to come 
of it,” the second-year graduate stu-dent said.But in Octo-
ber, she got a call from the show’s 
producers. 
“I didn’t 
practice every 
day, otherwise I wouldn’t have passed my class-
es,” she said.
Cutts said she doesn’t have time 
to bask in her victories; instead, 
she’s making sure her classwork 
gets done.Most of her winnings will be 
stashed away in a savings account, she said, but she’ll put aside some 
money for a few nice dinners, char-
ity and a vacation. 
Her mother, Jana Middleton, has 
watched her daughter on the show every night with her neighbor in Gainesville. Cutts told her parents she had made it onto the show, but she wasn’t allowed to tell them she won.
“We were on the edge of our 
seats when it got close,” Middleton said.
When Cutts was young, the fam-
ily watched “Jeopardy!” together at night. 
“She’s always been someone in-
terested in learning and comfortable with finding answers,” she said.
Middleton said her daughter val-
ued her education while living in Gainesville. 
“I think she was fortunate to have 
good teachers here and folks who encouraged her to learn as much as she could,” she said.
Gainesville native continues winning streak on ‘Jeopardy!’
Cutts
By Gabrielle Rueda
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In the Reitz Union on Thursday, 
Bridget Sullivan laid out patriotic shirts she designed.
The 19-year-old UF nutritional 
sciences freshman partcipated in 
the soft opening of the Reitz Re-
tail Gator Hatchery, located on the ground floor. The hatchery, orga-nized by the Reitz Union and UF’s Warrington College of Business En-trepreneurship & Innovation Center, allows students to sell their prod-ucts, said Nola Miyasaki, the execu-tive director for outreach and incu-
bation at UF.
Products will officially be on sale 
Friday, Miyasaki said.
“It’s a terrific opportunity for stu-
dents to sell their products and test 
the market for their products,” she said.
Miyasaki said there are six stu-
dent managers operating out of the hatchery, which includes companies specializing in apparel, games, pro-motions and virtual reality.
Sullivan founded her clothing 
company, Americamo, in 2015 with her older sister. She said she wanted to design patriotic clothes made in the U.S.
“When you go to Bass Pro Shop 
or when you go to Tractor Sup-ply, and you buy a T-shirt with the American flag and it was made over-seas, there is something wrong with 
that,” said Sullivan, whose tank tops 
sell for $12 and T-shirts for $16.  
Sullivan said she heard about the 
hatchery through one of her busi-ness classes and is excited to start selling her products.
The hatchery will be open week-
days from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. Students who want to sell their products can 
apply online, Miyasaki said.
“It’s a tremendous learning expe-
rience for anyone,” she said.With new hatchery, 
UF breeds startups
SHE WAS LAST FEATURED 
IN JANUARY..
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After Tracy Fanara spent four 
weeks trying to become the next 
“MythBusters” host, she spent her birthday talking to UF engineering students about creativity and sci-ence.
Fanara, a three-time UF gradu-
ate who competed in “MythBusters: The Search” was invited to speak via Facebook Live by the Herbert 
Wertheim College of Engineering 
for its Engineering Innovation class Thursday. The 33-year-old’s final episode on the show aired Jan. 28.
David Whitney, the assistant di-
rector of the Innovation Institute, interviewed her on Facebook. The video received more than 900 views.
Fanara said 
engineers should 
be both creative 
and innovative.
“If we don’t 
start innovating and keep doing 
things how they have been done, we won’t make improvements,” she said.
Eric Wagner, a 22-year-old UF 
mechanical engineering senior, said Fanara’s advice about stepping out-side his comfort zone was helpful. 
“I think there’s a lot of growth 
that engineers have to do, just be-cause the curriculum gets really dif-ficult,” Wagner said. “You have to go outside of where you’re comfort-able a number of times throughout your college career to be success-ful.”
Although Fanara never envi-
sioned herself on a TV show, she now plans to begin her own investi-
gative environmental science show.
“It’s all about role models,” Fa-
nara said. “What kids see on TV 
and what they think is cool kind of gets instilled in their subconscious.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF alumna, ‘MythBusters’contestant speaks to students
Fanara
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
FIREFIGHTERS GRADUATE
Twelve new hires with Gainesville Fire Rescue stands during their firefighter graduation 
ceremony at Ironwood Golf Course on Thursday. The new firefighters will go through six more weeks of training before being given assignments. 
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Eight female scientists shared 
stories over beers at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company on Thursday night.
In honor of the International Day 
of Women and Girls in Science, the UF Department of Physics hosted Talk Science With Her, an event that gave about 100 people the chance to speak with a panel of UF scientists who specialize in physics, astrono-my, oceanography and ecology.
The scientists sat at different pic-
nic tables, where friends and strang-ers alike flocked around them to learn about their latest research over beer.
Biomedical engineer and UF as-
sistant professor Aysegul Gunduz was happy to socialize with others, 
despite not being a panelist.
“I am trying to find how to stim-
ulate people’s remaining nerves so 
that they could actually feel through a robotic hand,” Gunduz said.She’s happy to discuss the neuro-
prosthetic project she’s working on, she said.
Elizabeth Webb, 29, organized 
the event and hopes to make it into a series called Science on Tap.
“Sometimes scientists are seen as 
people who are in their own worlds, and I think it’s important to bring 
them into the community,” she said.
Webb, who works at the Nation-
al High Magnetic Field Laboratory, 
said she wants male and female sci-entists to be recognized in the com-munity, but with a focus on women first.
“Women are historically and cur-
rently underrepresented in science,” Webb said.
UF biomedical doctoral student 
Avni Bhatt said she thinks women are scared away from science at an early age by men who typically 
dominate math- and science-based 
fields. 
“They go into a classroom, see 
a lot of males, and they’re turned away,” the 24-year-old said.The third-year student in the UF 
College of Medicine’s Interdisciplin-ary Program in Biomedical Science is studying structures of proteins and how they can be used to solve medical problems, like cancer.
Webb said she’ll continue to cel-
ebrate scientists in the community. One way she plans to reach out is by organizing the Gainesville March for 
Science on April 22. 
“Science is the basis for new dis-
coveries and great things that bring 
us together,” she said.
Female UF scientists share stories, beers at breweryThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
We’re interrupting your weekly Darts & Laurels today 
in light of the news of President Donald Trump’s infamous 
travel ban being blocked by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals. From the looks of it, it’s well on its way to the 
Supreme Court, so we’re going to have to reschedule our regularly planned musings on pop culture and shift aside for this week’s (specialized)…
Darts & Laurels
So just yesterday, we discussed how judicial review is an in-
tegral part of the U.S. government. The judicial branch isn’t the most glamorous branch of government. Little kids don’t jump 
up and down proclaiming that they want to be judges, after all. 
The executive branch gets more of the spotlight usually, since it is home to our figurehead (aka the president), and Congress, which makes up the legislative branch, has the occasional rep-
resentative and senator who makes a commotion. For instance, 
take Sen. John McCain, who’s had a few tussles with White House press secretary Sean Spicer, or Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who was formally silenced while reading a letter from Coretta Scott King. And despite our familiarity with Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
(or otherwise affectionately referred to as “Notorious RBG”) and 
Clarence Thomas, they shy away from media — until something big happens.
On Thursday, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to 
reinstate Trump’s travel ban, a decision which, according to the Associated Press, was decided by a panel of three federal judges.
So to this we give a laurel to our judiciary branch of gov-
ernment, because amid the chaos and the scandals of the other two branches, it has lived up to its job of being an impartial 
judge to the U.S. Constitution. It’s a bit odd, though. Yes, 
we’re happy that we do have one branch of government doing its job and upholding the Constitution, but shouldn’t we expect that of every branch?
In short, the other two branches of government have per-
formed less than perfectly. There’s been dubious going-ons in the Senate, bribes placed for certain highly unqualified cabinet members to be approved and an impressive number of execu-tive actions signed in the last three weeks alone. Kellyanne Con-
way completely made up a shocking news event and promoted 
Ivanka Trump’s clothing line on national television — two things that someone in her position should just not have done. Politics aside, it’s been just a bit of mess when it comes to the govern-
ment.
For that reason, we bestow a dart to the rest of our govern-
ment. Shouldn’t we not have to hear stories about bribes that 
Cabinet members made to senators to get approved? Shouldn’t a counselor to the president be expected to deliver actual facts 
instead of “alternative” ones? Shouldn’t we be entitled to a gov-
ernment that has the interest of all its people at heart — not just its party, not just its demographic, but all the people who work, love and live in our nation? Administration changes are never 
100-percent smooth, but rarely are they this rocky or conten-
tious. It’s not just pride or reputation at stake here — it’s the lives of millions of people.
The next step of the travel ban is uncertain, but it looks like 
it’s headed to the Supreme Court, and perhaps, the history books.
But like silent protectors watching our country, the judicial 
branch has decided to make a move and do its job. And when it does, all eyes are on it.February relationship series: love and friendship
When we think about relationships, 
the word that often comes to mind is love. It can give us a sense of pur-pose, bring out the noblest parts of us and reveal things we never knew 
about ourselves. Too often, however, we think of love applying only to our romantic partners. In honor of everyone else, I’d like to talk this week about friendship.
Friendship and love are more alike than we 
think. Both kinds of relationships offer sanc-tuary. Both offer a space in which someone accepts not only the part of ourselves we present to the world, but also our fears and anxieties, our passions and preoc-
cupations. Both kinds of relationships lend us support 
in trying times, and both ask that we stand up for the people we care about and help them in return. Both kinds of relationships require compromise and effort to flourish.
If love and friendship are so similar, what separates 
one from the other? The answer I often hear is twofold: sex and intimacy.
According to many, the difference between a friend 
and a lover is that they have no desire to have sex with their friends. Is this really the whole difference? Like a lot of common sense, it’s a quick answer that falls apart under scrutiny. There are countless elderly couples who have lost their libido with age and couples who are asexual or abstinent, but nonetheless share a deep love for each other. People in healthy, stable relationships often find themselves sexually attracted to a friend or a stranger. The line is blurrier than most of us care to 
think.
The issue of intimacy is a more complex one, be-
cause our beliefs about it invariably become our real-
ity. Although people cannot help who they are attracted to, intimacy is a choice. If we believe friendship is less intimate than love, we will keep our friends at arm’s length. The question is not “How is friendship different from love?” but “Why do we treat our friendships and romances differently?”
Much of the answer derives from the way 
we are taught to love. Whether we like it or not, we live in a society still governed by het-erosexual and monogamous customs. There 
is a fear, particularly among men, that a close 
same-sex friendship will be construed as ho-mosexual. We owe much of this idea to the work of Sigmund Freud, whose unscientific and erroneous theories popularized the idea of latent homosexuality and did irreparable 
damage to same-sex friendships. For proof, do a web search for “male affection in vintage photos” for count-less portraits of friends holding hands, sitting in each 
other’s laps, and expressing a level of affection that sur-
prises us today.
Why, then, don’t we simply prefer opposite-sex 
friendships? Remember that our society also revolves around monogamous norms. When a partner is close with a member of their preferred sex, we fear that close-ness will turn into love and that we will be abandoned for someone new. Nevertheless, it is increasingly com-mon for young people to have close friends of the pre-
ferred sex and healthy relationships simultaneously, 
and alternative relationship models like open relation-ships and polyamory are demonstrating that a deep af-fection or love for one person does not prevent us from loving others, just as having a close friend does not mean we cannot forge new friendships.
If sexual attraction and intimacy can exist in both 
friendship and love, what makes the two different? Nothing, except how we choose to express them.
When it comes to love, our only fault is in not shar-
ing it enough. We draw lines in the sand about how we can love one person or another, who and how many, when and how, but in the end, love is not scarce unless we make it so. Love does not diminish the more it is shared; we only learn better how to love.
David Billig is a UF linguistics masters student. This 
column is the second in a series of four.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORDavid Billig
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
Get informed on block tuition
As a recent UF graduate, I was disap-
pointed in the Alligator’s coverage last 
week of the proposed Florida Senate Bill 
02 (SB02), a legislative proposal to imple-
ment “block tuition,” which would charge a flat rate for tuition for full-time students regardless of the number of credit hours 
they take. When block tuition was pro-
posed in the 2010-2011 school year, UF students fought hard against it and won. It seems the saying is true: Bad ideas never really go away, they just get recycled. Did 
the Alligator look for any specifics on how 
this would financially affect students? Be-cause there are a lot of unanswered ques-tions about how this would be implement-
ed. 
Block tuition can function as a back-
door fee on the majority of students and 
disproportionately affect working students who take fewer credit hours each semes-
ter. We don’t know exactly what the base 
rate would be for block tuition yet, but the last time this proposal was advanced the base rate was 15 credit hours. Most students take closer to the mini-
mum 12 hours. Since Bright Fu-
tures pays tuition based on the number of credit hours the stu-dent is enrolled in, will it be cov-ering the gap for a student taking 
12 hours but paying a fee based 
on 15 hours (or more)? The bill specifically mentions the state cannot be held financially liable for money 
owed because of block tuition.
One good thing about SB02 is that it 
works to restore the original functions of 
Bright Futures — to actually cover the tu-
ition, fees and textbooks of Florida’s top 
students. When I started UF in Fall of 2007, I paid zero dollars in tuition and fees 
and received $300 per semester for books 
and other expenses. I was part of the last class to receive the full scholarship. It started eroding the following year as Florida allowed colleges and universities to tack on backdoor “fees” that 
would be conveniently omitted 
from Bright Futures funding. And with the 2008 economic collapse, schools were short on money. But it was still a broken 
promise to students who had 
made college plans around that money. Are we exchanging one 
backdoor fee for another?
Working students will especially be hit 
by this if it prices out above 12 hours. Stu-dents who work full time, some with fami-lies of their own, and still manage to take 
a full course load should be commended, 
not forced to subsidize the students that can take 18 hours.
Pressuring students into a heavier 
courseload also discourages students from participating in extracurricular activities. UF is admittedly a large school, both in area and the number of students. But it is made smaller by the connections that stu-
dents make on campus, usually through 
dorms, intramural sports and clubs. These connections and these opportunities to ex-plore our interests are pivotal parts of our development during our time at UF. The 
statewide numbers game over graduation 
rates threatens these critical college expe-riences.
When block tuition was last proposed, 
students held a referendum during the Spring 2011 election, and 90 percent of students voted in opposition to block tu-ition. The movement against block tuition actually ended up enjoying bipartisanship 
support in Student Government, a rare feat 
in those days. But this did not come with-out hard work. It was a movement with different groups working together, and 
that needs to happen again. Make a stink 
about it (legally!), both on campus and by contacting your state house and sen-ate representatives. You deserve answers before you’re handed the bill.
Jessica Lovett is a UF alumna from the 
class of 2011.
“Bad ideas never really go away, 
they just get recycled.”Letters to the Editor
opinions@alligator.orgHeather Cinca, Christina’s 
mother, said her family traveled 
to different hospitals across the 
nation in an effort to find the best 
doctors to treat her daughter.
“We came to the realization 
that the best place for us to be 
would be in Gainesville at UF Health because they have an 
amazing team there,” said the 
47-year-old, whose family lives in Cocoa Beach, Florida. “We were in great hands. We knew that.” 
Cristina spent about two and 
a half years on and off the trans-plant waiting list, Cinca said. 
On July 1, 2014, the family re-
ceived a call.
A heart was ready and wait-
ing for Christina. But at the time, she was suffering from a case of pneumonia, which disqualified her from being able to take on a new heart.
Two months later, the Cincas 
got another call. A different heart was waiting.
“I was for sure more excited 
than I was nervous that time,” Cristina Cinca said. “I was ready. I knew that this was my shot.” 
•   •   •
Heather Cinca said the suc-
cessful surgery was performed by Dr. Mark Bleiweis. 
Bleiweis, the director of the UF 
Health Congenital Heart Center 
and the chief of congenital car-
diothoracic surgery, said the pro-gram’s success is due to his team. 
“I think we’ve assembled a 
phenomenal group of doctors and nurses and transplant coordina-tors and all of the staff that we need to take care of these very complex patients,” he said.  
He said doctors at UF Health 
perform the most pediatric heart and lung transplants in the na-tion. To receive a new heart, patients can spend months, or sometimes years, waiting. 
“We also kind of have to take 
a moment to recognize the won-derful gift that the donor family 
has given to us,” Bleiweis said. “I 
feel blessed every day that I get to do this, and it’s hard work, but it doesn’t feel like work.”
Ed Jimenez, the CEO of UF 
Shands, said he’s excited the hos-pital has risen to the top of pedi-atric heart transplants. 
“It signifies that, at UF Health, 
we’ve had the chance for some time now to build an amazing team,” Jimenez said. 
He said the transplants are successful because of more than just the surgeons. 
“It takes a whole army of peo-
ple and it starts with the moment our team identifies that a patient is sick enough that they need to be considered for a new heart,” he said. “We take care of the pa-
tients for life afterwards.” 
Jimenez said the transplant 
team, which includes nurses, 
doctors, technicians and other workers, have changed the lives of patients and families. The re-cent report proves that, he said.
“The people that work here 
have proven, now through objec-
tive data, that they can deliver 
amazing results,” he said. “They wake up every day knowing that they have a chance to make a difference. Every night, they go home knowing that they’ve made a difference and they touch peo-ple in life-altering ways.” 
•   •   •Christina’s new heart has 
changed her life, her mother said.
Before, her heart condition 
forced her to need a wheelchair to navigate the hallways at school. 
Now, she plays tennis, rides her 
bike and wakeboards with no physical restrictions, her mother said.
“She’s gone from this girl 
who, you know, I couldn’t get her down to the beach to, she’s turn-ing 16 next month and she, I can’t keep up with her,” Cinca said.  
Christina Cinca said before 
her transplant, she didn’t realize how much her heart affected her life. But because of the doctors at Shands, who are like family to the Cincas now, and her new heart, she sees what she’s been missing out on.   
“Now, after the transplant, I 
see that this new life I have is so much better,” she said. “I can lit-erally do anything I want.” 8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
a really bad feeling,” the 26-year-
old said.
UF freshman Zachary Burr had 
finished his lunch and was talking to friends on the Plaza of the Amer-icas when he saw Davila-Stirling sprinting with the money box.
“I thought he was going to get 
away,” the health science student said.
Burr, 18, said he held down 
Davila-Stirling’s feet until police ar-rived. 
With nowhere to go, Davila-Stir-
ling didn’t resist.
“Once he was on the ground, he 
knew he messed up, and he wasn’t getting out of it,” Burr said.
Long said police arrived five 
minutes after Davila-Stirling was tackled. Davila-Stirling remains in the Alachua County Jail, as of press time, with no bond.
Long said Davila-Stirling didn’t 
need to steal; she would have glad-ly fed him for free.
“We are a peaceful organiza-
tion,” she said. “We would have given him a lunch for free if he wanted it.”
@merlkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
KRISHNA,  from pg. 1UF students held him until cops cameTHE CLASS COSTS $5.
By Lindsey Paige
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can add 
something new to their workout 
routine starting this weekend. 
Danielle Gertner, 22, will be 
coaching the first Gainesville Grinds class Saturday at 10 a.m. at Depot Park, located at 200 SE 
Depot Ave.  
Gertner, a UF alumna, is 
a certified personal trainer 
through the National Academy of Sports Medicine. 
“My goals for the class are to 
give you a kick-ass, total-body workout that engages you the entire time,” Gertner said. 
The hourlong class costs $5 
and is a total-body boot camp, she said. Participants will use body-strength exercises, kettle bells, jump ropes and agility 
ladders to build strength. 
Her workout is different for a few reasons, she said. It is 
high-energy and fast-paced and 
changes every week. 
Amanda Garcia, 21, said she 
is interested in trying the class.
“I think this class would be 
a good way for me to switch up 
my routine,” the UF health sci-ence junior said.
Gertner already leads a free 
boot camp class at Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium, called Gator Grind, 
every Monday at 6 p.m. for UF students. 
Her goal for the Depot Park 
class is to get the community up and moving, she said. She thinks there is a huge need for health and fitness education — especially in Alachua County. 
“I had the idea to spread the 
grind across Gainesville and I really appreciate how nice of a job the City of Gainesville did 
with building this park,” Gert-
ner said.UF alumna starts new 
fitness class at Depot
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dr. Biagio Pietra, Dr. Jay Fricker, Dr. Mark Bleiweis and Dr. James 
Fudge pose with Cristina Cinca, who received a heart transplant from UF Health Shands Hospital in September 2014, at the American Heart Association Heart Ball on Feb. 14, 2016. Bleiweis performed Cinca’s surgery, and Fricker was her cardiologist. 
HEART,  from pg.1Christina got a new heart in 2014
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF psychology professor will 
travel across the world today in an 
effort to save elephants.
Ron Chan-
dler is returning 
to northeast In-dia for 11 days, 
as part of his personal mis-
sion to preserve 
the home of one of the remain-
ing five herds 
of Asian elephants in the world. 
Chandler is working with George 
Schaller, a biologist and conser-
vationist, and a team of National Geographic explorers to document 
the elephant herds near Garo Hills, 
an Indian mountain range
“Elephants just embody every 
wonderful thing a human could have,” Chandler said. “They’re re-markably intelligent and facilitate 
the day-to-day life of every other 
creature in their ecosystem.”
Chandler founded the locally 
based nonprofit Conservation Ini-tiative for the Asian Elephant 17 
years ago. The organization’s pe-
tition to declare the Indian moun-tain range a world heritage site is being considered by the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Cultural Organization. If the land is protected, so are the elephants.
Chandler said he believes the area needs to be internationally 
protected from damage by agri-
culture, mining and the palm oil industry. He said he hopes by this time next year Garo Hills will be-
come valued for its culture and 
ecology.
The hills are made up of 90-per-
cent unaltered forest and pristine streams and have one of the high-est populations of wildcats in the 
world, he said. Villages of Garo 
people, who live in the mountain range and follow an ancient Earth religion, also face losing their 
home to an increasing amount of 
human activity.  
Julia Jeanty, a UF sustainabil-
ity studies junior and a teaching assistant for Chandler’s psychol-
ogy of sustainability class, said she 
became passionate about the pres-ervation of elephants after hearing 
Chandler talk about it.
“He just has this ability to instill 
passion in anyone,” the 21-year-old said.
Jeanty founded a UF student 
organization called Gators for 
the Asian Elephant last Fall. She 
hopes Chandler’s trip raises aware-
ness about the conservation of el-ephants. 
“It’s not that people don’t 
care,” she said. “It’s that they don’t 
know.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgProfessor traveling to 
India, petitioning to  save elephants
Chandler
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff 
RIGHT: One person holds up a scarf during the Academics United - No to Visa and Immigration Ban protest 
on Thursday. Nicole Acosta, a 21-year old UF psychology junior, supported the protest against President Donald Trump’s travel ban. “I worry that this is the ﬁ  rst step towards normalizing fascism and racism, and picking and choosing who we want in this country, and that’s not right, ” she said.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ABOVE: Ehsan Fereyduni, a UF chemistry graduate student, holds a sign that symbolizes the phrase “Iran loves the U.S. ” Fereyduni expressed his concerns about how the ban also includes educated people who come to the U.S. More than 100 people attended Thursday’s protest against the travel ban.
search.”
Mary Kay Carodine, UF’s assistant vice 
president for Student Affairs, told students 
the university will do everything it is le-
gally allowed to do to support them. 
“We are committed to provide care and 
justice and serve you in whatever ways,” 
she said. “We’ll try to be as creative as possible to do that.” 
Steve Arroyo, a 23-year-old UF history 
senior, said the protest was misguided. 
“This is purposeless,” he said. “This is a 
bunch of people trying to show each other 
how good, how virtuous they are.” 
Arroyo said he believes the travel ban 
was a good idea but disagreed with how it was implemented. 
People with green cards should not have been prevented from entering the U.S., he said. 
But for Ela Sajjadi, a UF rehabilitation 
science doctoral student, the ban is per-sonal. 
“I am not optimistic about this any-
more,” said Sajjadi, who’s from Iran. 
The 30-year-old said her mother and sis-
ter are back at home in Iran. 
She wanted to go see them this summer and later apply for a job in the U.S., but now she doesn’t know if either will hap-
pen.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult because you have a 
plan on the back of your head, and then 
you’re affected by a law,” Sajjadi said. “You just don’t know what to do.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgPROTEST,  from pg. 1The travel-ban protest was one of several held across the US FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. 
$375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2HOUSE - 3BR/2BA, w/ fireplace off SW 13th St, near IHOP restaurant. 3627 SW 13th St. Big front yard, fenced backyard, close to Vet School, UF & downtown. $950/mo. Call or text 352-2327-2931, email: nghe@msn.com    2-10-17-5-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com      2-15-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-10-5-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N       2-10-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
DELIVERY DRIVERS WANTED
FOR FLOWER SHOP FOR VALENTINES.
Must have own vehicle w/ proof of license & 
insurance. Apply in person 635 NW 13th St.    
2-14-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305      2-10-1-16
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger & Harder Immediately! Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely. Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Phone Consultation: 1-800-354-3944 www.DrJoelKaplan.com       2-10-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALMIGHTY GOD, Create within me a Humble, Broken, Contrite, Repentant Heart. Give me Holy Hatred against Sin and Sincere Repentance Toward My Creator God. www.Christ-is-all.us         2-10-1-18 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 New
6 Word on a movie
ticket
11 Great white cousin
15 Like a gymnast
16 In perfect order
18 “As You Like It”?20 Thai currency21 “Night” author
Wiesel
22 Summertime
treats
23 Berkeley sch.25 Moby-Dick, e.g.28 “Hamlet”?32 Bing provider35 Fluorine or
chlorine
36 Santa __37 State tie of New
Mexico
38 Name on the
cover of “Fear ofFlying”
39 __ shui41 Fix, as a road42 Bill
43 Web help source
44 Simple wind
46 Animal in some
fables
47 “Twelfth Night”?
49 What a round
increases
50 Vied (for)
51 Diarist Nin54 Island festivity56 Great Sphinx site60 “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream”?
64 It’s taken in
schools
65 Take care of66 Go slowly67 Some expirations68 High priests
DOWN
1 Lipo target
2 Costa __
3 Drawing toy in
“Toy Story”
4 One keeping
track of courtproceedings?
5 2013 Spike
Jonze movie
6 Deep blue
7 Stage of grief8 Explorer who
named thePacific Ocean9 Tech sch. that
filed for
bankruptcy in2016
10 Eastern way
11 Collision repair
franchise
12 Alcove near the
chancel
13 Tool in a
legendary
electricityexperiment
14 Singles17 “Goosebumps”
series author
19 Dig24 Simple marine
plant
26 City on the
Penobscot River
27 Food chain letters28 Biblical
queendom
29 Chincoteague
females
30 Jennifer Garner
spy series
31 Swaddled one
32 Theme
33 Pitch34 Singer Jones37 Pribilof Islands
locale40 Totaling
41 Tennis 
nickname
43 Remote
45 Montana player
47 Fleece finder
48 Lots49 __ curls
51 Some batteries
52 When to call, in
ads
53 Commedia
dell’___55 A long time
57 Newsworthy
couple
58 Sixth in a 
series
59 Israeli author Oz
61 Takes too much,
briefly
62 “Love Story”
composer
Francis
63 Fashionable
initials
By Alex Eaton-Salners
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/10/1702/10/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 10, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Alex McMurtry and most of 
the UF gymnastics team have been battling sickness, but they're still aiming for a win tonight against Georgia, pg. 14UF women's tennis to compete this weekend
The Gators will travel to Connecticut for the National Indoor Champion-
ships, where they will be the No. 1 seed. Read a full preview of the action 
online at alligator.org/sportsBy Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Texas A&M delivered the loss 
that killed Florida’s NCAA Tourna-
ment hopes last season.
After a six-point loss in the SEC 
Tournament, UF coach Mike White was asked to talk about the turn-overs that blew the game open for 
the Aggies. 
White shook his head.
Five seconds of silence. “Yeah — not very fun to talk 
about,” he said. 
The Gators were sloppy and A&M 
made them pay, White said. 
But UF will get its chance at re-
demption on Saturday at noon when 
No. 17 Florida (19-5, 9-2 SEC) hosts 
the Aggies (13-10, 5-6 SEC) in the O’Connell Center. 
While Saturday’s matchup won’t 
have the pressure or pomp of UF’s 
last home game — a 22-point, land-
mark win over then-No. 8 Kentucky — the Aggies present a threat to knock Florida off its five-game win-
ning streak for three reasons. 
1) While Texas A&M doesn’t 
have the offense that took it to the Sweet Sixteen in 2016, it can still 
pose problems for UF on defense. The Aggies give up just 68.6 points 
per game, the fourth-best mark in 
the SEC. Texas A&M nearly knocked off No. 9 Arizona early in the season, holding the Wildcats to just 3-of-15 shooting from beyond the arc. 
2) The Gators haven’t beaten 
A&M since Billy Donovan was coaching in 2015. Florida’s lost three of its last four games against the Ag-
gies. 
3) Florida’s worst moments have 
come right after its best. Florida suf-
fered a demoralizing two-game los-ing streak in mid-January coming off 
a seven-game winning streak. White 
said the Gators lost focus as a result of the streak and being ranked for the first time in more than a year. 
But UF is hoping to overcome 
that list on Saturday.
“Last year, they beat us twice,” 
point guard Kasey Hill said on Thursday. “Every team that beat us 
last year, we’re definitely trying to 
beat this year.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgMen’s basketball hosts Texas A&M on Saturday
THIS WEEKEND, HE'LL 
COMPETE FOR THE FIRST 
TIME THIS SEASON. 
By Daniel Smithson 
Sports Writer 
Florida hurdler Eric Futch was 
one one-hundredth of a second 
away.
One one-hundredth of a second 
away from earning the chance to compete in the men’s 400-meter hurdle finals at the 2016 Olympic Trials. 
In his semi-final heat, Futch 
placed fifth with a time of 50.27. University of Texas hurdler Byron Robinson finished fourth with a time of 50.26. The top four hur-dlers from each heat moved on to the finals. 
He missed the finals by about 
the time it takes a lightning bolt to strike the ground, but Futch said he’s put his disappointment be-hind him. 
“Obviously it’s motivation, but 
that’s the past —  I’ve kind of let it go,” Futch said. “It’s kind of a new thing we’ve got going this year, so I just try to stay focused on what we’ve got going on and take it a meet at a time and do what I’ve got to do on and off the track.” 
The Darby, Pennsylvania, na-
tive said he started competing in hurdles when he was 13. 
“It was just kind of a new thing 
… my summer track coach tried it out and just put me in the hurdles, and I jumped over it,” Futch said. “I guess he (saw) that I could be good at it, and he just kept me in, and obviously, I got better over time.” 
While a senior at Penn Wood 
High School, Futch placed first in the 400-meter hurdles at the 2012 IAAF World Junior Championships and first again at the 2012 USATF Junior Outdoor Championships. His success earned him the title of 2012 Gatorade Pennsylvania Boys Track & Field Athlete of the Year. 
His next stop was over 1,500 
miles away from his hometown — not at Florida, but the University of Houston. 
At Houston, Futch became a 
two-time USTFCCCA Outdoor All-American in the 400-meter hurdles and the 4x100 relay and an Indoor All-American in the 4x400 relay. He was also a Conference USA champion in the 400-meter hur-dles.
Futch said despite enjoying his 
time at Houston and the success he had there, he felt it was time for a change. 
The change brought him more 
than 800 miles east from Houston to Gainesville. He said he talked to UF coaches about coming to Flori-da, and he said he felt like UF was the best place for him to succeed. 
“Obviously me coming to UF 
was a good change,” Futch said. 
As a redshirt sophomore in 
2015 after redshirting his first year at UF, Futch was named an Out-door All-American in the 400-me-ter hurdles and 4x100 relay. He was also named All-SEC Outdoor Second Team for his efforts in the 
Florida hurdler jumping into actionCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike White gestures during Florida's win over Kentucky on Saturday. When the Gators play T exas A&M on Saturday, White is hoping to avoid losing to the Aggies for the third time in a row. 
SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 14TRACK AND FIELD
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Ronni Williams and Delicia 
Washington trotted toward half-
court before meeting each other 
with a chest bump as the final buzzer sounded at the O’Connell Center.
For the first time in a while, 
the two players could actually put smiles on their faces.
For the first time this season, 
Florida had finally won a home 
game against an SEC opponent.
Playing in front of a crowd of 
1,441, the Gators defeated Ar-
kansas 57-53 on Thursday night 
for their first conference victory 
in Gainesville in more than 11 months.
Senior forward Ronni Wil-
liams led UF with 15 points and 
12 rebounds for her seventh 
double-double this season. Fresh-man guard Sydney Morang also 
knocked down four three-point 
baskets to tie a career-high 12 points, and junior guard Dyan-dria Anderson was the late-game hero with key free throws, a re-
bound and a steal in the contest’s 
final minute to seal the win for Florida.
“There’s not any reason to act 
cool about it,” coach Amanda Butler said. “This felt really good to finally, in front of our fans, play well enough to win against 
a very good team in a very impor-
tant matchup.”
The game tipped off with 
brutal offensive starts from both 
squads.
The Gators and Razorbacks 
missed 18 of their first 21 shots 
combined, scoring a meager six points in the opening 6:42 of the game.UF manages first SEC 
home win of seasonWOMEN'S BASKETBALL
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 14400-meter hurdles. 
In Futch’s redshirt-junior sea-
son in 2016, he became a national champion. 
Two weeks before he finished 
a centisecond away from the 
400-meter hurdle finals in the 2016 Olympic Trials, he won the fourth 400-meter hurdles national title in school history at the 2016 NCAA 
Division I Outdoor Track and Field 
Championships. This champion-
ship was preceded by a standout 
performance at the SEC Outdoor 
Championships, where he finished 
first in the same event and helped 
the UF 4x400 relay team to a run-
ner-up finish. 
This season hasn’t been as suc-
cessful for Futch. 
In fact, he hasn’t competed at 
all so far in 2017 because of limita-
tions caused by hamstring issues. 
Futch will have a chance to test 
out his hamstrings this weekend 
when most of the Florida track and 
field team heads to Fayetteville, 
Arkansas, for the Tyson Invita-
tional while some distance runners 
head to Ames, Iowa, for the Iowa 
State Classic. 
In his first event back, Futch 
will compete in the men’s 4x400 
relay. He said he wants to help his 
team get better as it moves forward 
toward the championship meets.
“I’m just looking to come in and run a good leg, and go out there and be a vocal leader and a physical leader for my team on and off the track.” Futch said. 
Florida coach Mike Holloway 
said this point in the season is when the coaching staff really starts to see what the team is ca-pable of. Despite the success the 
team has had early in the season, 
Holloway said the team still has 
room to grow. 
“The big thing we’ve got to do 
is to remember we have to keep 
getting better,” Holloway said. 
“The rest of the country is going to keep getting better, and we have to 
match the intensity of all the other teams around the country.” 
Holloway said meets in the 
beginning and middle of the sea-son don’t mean much other than to prepare his team for the SEC Championships and outdoor championships. 
“We get our last preparation 
meet this weekend at Tyson,” Hol-loway said. “In two weeks, the real show starts.”
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.orgFlorida will compete in Arkansas and Iowa this weekend14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
Event:  Tyson Invitational 
Location: Fayetteville, Arkansas 
TV: SEC Network +When: Friday, Feb. 10, 5:30 EST and Saturday, 
Feb. 11, 2 p.m. EST 
Florida finished the first quar-
ter strong, however, after Morang 
nailed two three-point jumpers to 
take a 16-5 lead at the end of the 
period.
UF (12-12, 3-8 SEC) continued 
its strong push into the following 
frame, holding off Arkansas 
by at least six points until the final minute of the half when momentum shifted back in the Razorbacks' favor.
Three consecutive steals from 
sophomore guard Malica Monk in the last 1:05 propelled Arkansas to a 6-0 run to head into the intermis-
sion down by only two points.
The Razorbacks (13-11, 2-9 
SEC) continued that offensive 
push into the third quarter, gener-ating another 12-0 run behind bas-
kets from senior forward Jessica 
Jackson, sophomore guard Keiryn Swanson and freshman guard Jai-lyn Mason to take a five-point lead.
From there, the two teams bat-
tled in an evenly matched second half until Anderson came up big in the game’s final moments.
With the Gators leading 54-53 
in the final 10 seconds, Anderson rose up and pulled down a key defensive rebound after a missed jumper from Jackson.
The Viera, Florida, native was 
then sent to the charity stripe, sinking both shots to increase her team’s lead to three with seven ticks remaining.
In Arkansas’ final opportunity 
to tie the game, Anderson once again came up huge, forcing a 
turnover and swishing another free 
throw to clinch the victory.
“It was a big-time shot,” Ander-
son said. “I’m happy I made it, and coach put me in those positions 
to make those free throws at that 
time.”
Thursday’s game against the Ra-zorbacks ends a 348-day drought for Florida at home against con-ference opponents. UF’s previous SEC home victory came on Feb. 28, 2016 in a 56-49 win over Auburn.
“As a team, we feel great, man,” 
Williams said. “We get to go home and relax. We got the win tonight. Now, we’re going to get ready for our next opponent.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
WOMEN'S HOOPS , from pg.13UF last won a conference game at home on Feb. 28, 2016TRACK,  from pg.13GYMNASTICS
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Alex McMurtry was ready to 
make her 2017 floor debut.
Then she got sick.
“I’m feeling pretty weak,” Mc-
Murtry said. “We’re not really sure 
if floor is in the plans this weekend or what’s going on. I was joking 
that just when I know what’s going 
on, God throws me a curveball.”
But the virus that’s kept her 
from being able to practice normal-
ly this week didn’t just impact her.
According to Florida coach 
Jenny Rowland, only three girls on the team have avoided its wrath, impacting their ability to work out this week and draining their en-
ergy levels.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if there 
is some changeups in the lineups,” 
Rowland said on Tuesday. “It hit us pretty hard.”
The fatigue and lack of prac-
tices won’t help when the No. 3 Gators (4-1, 2-1 SEC) face No. 9 Georgia (5-1, 4-1 SEC) tonight in 
the O’Connell Center in the na-
tion’s top dual meet.
The Bulldogs come in riding a 
five-meet win streak after a slow 
start to the season while the Gators 
are hoping to rebound from their 
first loss of the season against No. 6 Alabama.
Last season, Florida lost to 
Georgia by just 0.05 in Athens, and it's ready to get back on the mats after leaving Tuscaloosa without a win.  
“I didn’t treat it as a loss be-
cause I thought we had a really great meet,” McMurtry said. “It’s OK. We are going to bounce back.”
Five meets in, vault has be-
come the one apparatus where the Gators have been consistently strong.
If McMurtry is healthy enough 
to compete tonight, she and the coaches will have to decide wheth-er or not she will perform what has become her signature vault — a Yurchenko double — or just a full. The double has a 10.0 start 
value and is one of the most diffi-cult moves to perform in all of col-
legiate gymnastics and something 
that her coaches thought may be 
too much for her because of her nagging back injury.
The two times she has been able 
to execute it, she scored  9.950 and 
9.900.
“For the previous meets, (as-
sistant coach Adrian Burde) asked 
me if I wanted to compete the 
double, and I said yes,” McMurtry 
said. “But this (past) weekend at 
Alabama, he said I was doing the 
double.”
Sick or not, however, the Gators 
are going to try to get their third 
straight home win of the season 
tonight against the Bulldogs.
“It’s not ideal for any team, but 
we’ll be able to get through it,” 
Rowland said. “I’m glad it hap-
pened now and not at the end of 
the season.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgDespite sickness, UF hoping to rebound
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry celebrates after Florida's win over Kentucky on Jan. 13 in the O'Connell Center. 
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Eric Futch gestures during at the 2016 NCAA Outdoor Track and Field Championships. 
TRACK MEET INFO: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s ..$50.00  (74.75)
6........... $75.00 (103.50)
6+ .....$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th StreetOK, this is start-
ing to become childish.
New York 
Knicks for-
ward Carmelo An-thony has been at the center of trade talks recently despite hav-ing a no-trade clause in his contract. And Knicks President Phil Jackson has adamantly been shopping the ring-less, nine-time All-Star for potential 
suitors. The Knicks have reportedly 
reached out to the Cavaliers, Clip-pers and Celtics, according to CBS New York.
Before I continue, I must say 
this: I love Phil Jackson.
I think he is one of the great-
est — scratch that, the greatest — basketball coach of all time, and I 
think his 13 NBA Championship 
rings will back me up on that state-ment.
There is no doubt in my mind 
that Jackson knows what he is do-ing, and I think Knicks fans would be wise to trust him.
That said, this three-way squab-
ble between Jackson, Anthony and 
New York super-fan Spike Lee has 
to stop.
It’s been going on all season.Earlier in the year, Jackson re-
sponded to a reporter’s question about whether Anthony could play in a triangle offense — a system Jackson ran to perfection in his runs with the Bulls and Lakers.
“We have a rule: If you hold a 
pass two seconds, you beneﬁ  t the defense,” Jackson told CBS Sports. “So he has a little bit of a tendency to hold it for three, four, ﬁ  ve sec-onds, and then everybody comes to a stop.”
Anthony bit back, 
saying that the Knicks “don’t need Phil Jack-son’s ‘negativity,’” ac-
cording to CBS Sports.
And on Tuesday, 
Jackson posted a 
tweet that called into question Anthony’s “will to win.”
I agree with Jackson’s senti-
ment.
Anthony has been in the league 
since 2003, when he was a high-proﬁ  le star fresh off a national championship with Syracuse. 
What has he done since then? Nothing. Well, I guess he’s 
scored a bunch of points, but who cares about a player who said he equates basketball success with winning gold medals on a stacked 
U.S. team?
But at least one person has yet 
to give up on Melo.
Popular director of ﬁ  lms you’ve 
probably never heard of (except 
for “He Got Game”) and arguably the Knicks’ most unshakable sup-porter, Spike Lee, believes it’s time for Jackson to move on.
“I’ll pack Phil’s bags for him,” 
Lee told Tencent-ESPN’s Steve Zeng. 
Really?This scenario sounds less like an 
argument between grown men and more like a vicious battle between angry high school cheerleaders.
Just do us a favor, New York. 
Cut it out already.  
Ray Boone is a sports writer. 
His columns appear on Fridays. Contact him at rboone@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @rboone1994 Dear New York: Do the world 
a favor and just end it alreadyBy Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The No. 6 UF men’s tennis team 
will take to the skies this weekend, 
ﬂ  ying to Charlottesville, Virginia, to take on the No. 1-ranked Vir-ginia Cavaliers.
The two sides will face off on 
Sunday at Virginia’s Snyder Ten-nis Center, an indoor facility that will host the ITA National Indoor 
Championships the following 
weekend.
And for the Gators, it’ll be their 
third straight matchup against a 
top-10 opponent.
“It’s nice with our schedule that 
we get to face a team like UVA this weekend,” Shelton said. “And we’re playing inside instead of out-side. That changes things a little 
bit.”
The indoor surface is a little 
faster than typical hard court. Hit-
ting quality serves, making quality points and getting an early lead 
have been extra areas of empha-
sis from Shelton that he hopes his 
team can use to its advantage in the unfamiliar conditions.
But while these tangible tactics 
will be vital for success against 
the Cavaliers, the intangibles will 
prove signiﬁ  cant in this top-10 matchup as well.
Two players who possess these 
intangibles are sophomores Alfredo 
Perez and McClain Kessler.
For Perez, the intangible is raw 
talent.
The Havana, Cuba, native has 
ﬁ  rmly taken over the No. 1 singles 
spot for the Gators and is ranked as the No. 9 player in the country. 
Perez is also a part of the coun-
try’s No. 3 doubles pair, so playing such high-quality competition in both singles and doubles has posi-tively impacted Perez, Shelton said. 
“He’s more composed on the 
court,” Shelton said. “He has more 
conﬁ  dence in what he brings to the 
team.”
And for Kessler, aside from 
more talent, he brings energy. A lot 
of energy.  
“It’s not just a match thing with 
him,” Shelton said. “I don’t know 
if he takes more sugar than anyone else or what, but the guy comes ready to go day in and day out.”
For a sophomore, Kessler has 
made a signiﬁ  cant jump into the lineup for the Gators’ 2017 cam-paign. 
As a freshman a season ago, 
Kessler played mainly in Florida’s sixth singles spot.
Now, Kessler plays in the four 
spot, as well as alongside senior captain Elliott Orkin in doubles.
“It’s a pretty big jump (for 
him),” Orkin said of his partner. 
“He’s someone that works his butt 
off, so to see the results paying off 
is awesome.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org UF men’s  tennis to play No. 1 VirginiaHERE COMES THE BOONE
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Coach Bryan Shelton (right) talks with players during his team’s win against UCLA on Sunday.  
MATCH INFO:
• Who: No. 6 Florida @ No. 1 Virginia
• What: T op-10 men’s tennis matchup
• When: Sunday, Feb. 12, 5 p.m.
• Where: Snyder T ennis Center, Charlottesville, VA16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2017
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
In 2016’s ﬁ  nal regular-season 
game, then-freshman Kelly Barnhill 
threw her ﬁ  rst no-hitter at the college level.
Barnhill’s no-hitter was the 
fourth the Gators pitched last sea-son.
It’s that kind of talent that coach 
Tim Walton is conﬁ  dent in as the 
UF enters the 2017 season. Because 
even though Florida saw ﬁ  ve seniors graduate, the team didn’t lose any of its pitchers.“I think what makes us most 
special,” Walton said, “is just how dynamic our pitching staff is. We 
just do things so different in four dif-
ferent arms, from the left side to the right side, and I’m just excited about the overall quality of that depth.”
In last year’s campaign, the trio 
of then-sophomore Aleshia Ocasio, then-junior Delanie Gourley and Barnhill allowed just a combined 18 home runs on the season. The 
staff also boasted an ERA of 0.93, 
the best in the nation. And on Feb. 1, all three were named to the USA Softball Top 50 Watch List.Barnhill was just one of six soph-
omores nationwide to be included.
At the end of the 2016 season, 
Ocasio was named as one of three USA Softball Player of the Year ﬁ  nal-ists, ending the season with an ERA of 0.77 and going 13-for-30 in the batter’s box.
“I’ve just been taking everything 
I’ve accomplished and building off it and looking at the good and the bad,” Ocasio said. “And trying 
to capitalize everything that I’ve 
worked on these past two years as well as the fall.”
The beginning of a new season 
brings a chance for both the coaches and players to evaluate strengths and weaknesses as the team is ﬁ  nal-ly given a chance to play competi-tors rather than scrimmaging itself.
For the Gators, that starts today 
as the season opens at the USF-Wil-son Demarini Tournament. Florida, currently tied for a ranking of No. 4 in the country, will face No. 6  Mich-igan, No. 25 USF and Illinois State. 
And just as the Gators compet-
ed in this tournament last season, so did Illinois State, Michigan and 
USF. Florida won by a total of 30-1 
against the three.
“I’m just so excited to see what 
this new team is going to bring,” Barnhill said.
With a pitching staff that has a 
wealth of talent and experience and a roster that boasts four newcom-ers, the Gators will have plenty to 
showcase and test out as the season 
kicks off.
“I’m really excited about what 
they’ve done and just how they’ve continued to grow and get better and add pitches to their repertoire,” Walton said.
The ﬁ  rst game will be played 
against Illinois State at 4:15 p.m.
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org  UF softball begins today in Tampa LACROSSE
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After its defeat to Penn State 
in the second round of the NCAA Tournament, the Florida lacrosse team lost 10 seniors to graduation.
Included in that group was its 
leading scorer.
Midﬁ  elder Nicole Graziano was 
a big part of the success the team enjoyed last season, during which the Gators went 18-2 and won the Big East regular-season and tour-nament titles.
Graziano led the Gators with 44 
goals and 17 assists, earning her 
Big East Most Outstanding Player 
and Midﬁ  elder of the Year honors. 
But with her departure, UF fac-
es the challenge of ﬁ  nding a way to replace her role.
“Because we have such a pow-
erful offense, everybody is go-ing to kind of step up,” attacker Sammi Burgess said.  “She was 
such a huge presence, so it’s not 
necessarily replacing her, but it’s kind of getting something together that’s (just) as powerful as she was.”
UF has the talent to do that.On top of Burgess, who ﬁ  n-
ished second in goals with 41, Florida has a string of talent look-
ing to help the team even more. 
Senior midﬁ  elder Mollie Ste-
vens, who enters her ﬁ  nal season at Florida, recorded her 100th ca-
reer goal en route to 21 goals last season.
Sophomores Lindsey Ronbeck 
and Sydney Pirreca both ended last season in the top ﬁ  ve on the team in goals, with Ronbeck scor-ing 36 and Pirreca adding 25.
And when the season starts this Saturday against No. 1 North Carolina, the Gators will look to Pirreca and Ronbeck to help lead 
the charge. 
“I think having that home-ﬁ  eld 
advantage will make this game 
even more emotional for us,” Ron-beck said. “I think it’s going to be great competition.”
Great competition will be the 
story of the Gators’ non-confer-ence schedule this season, as the 
defending champion Tarheels will 
be the ﬁ  rst of ﬁ  ve top-10 teams they will face.
“We had the opportunity to 
play the U.S. National Team… however, there’s not really any-thing on the line,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “But now, we play North Carolina, No. 1 in the coun-
try, and there’s a lot in the line 
with this game.”
UF hasn’t had much luck 
against top-ranked opponents as it lost to then-No. 1 Maryland last season, 14-4.
But against UNC last season, 
Florida came out on top in Chapel Hill, barely surviving a 16-15 ﬁ  ght 
against the Tarheels.
This season, the Gators are 
hoping for a similar result. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  Gators hope to ﬁ  ll void 
Graziano left before UNC
Alligator File Photo
Kelly Barnhill pitches during UF’s doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 27, 2016, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
GAME INFO: 
• Who: No. 1 North Carolina @ No. 3 Florida
• When and Where: Noon at the Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
• Broadcast: SEC Network +