We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
In seventh grade, Camryn Ford 
felt lost.
His grades were slipping. Col-
lege wasn’t on the table. Only out-
side the classroom did he feel he ﬁ  nally got the direction he lacked from school.
After hitting the books and 
the tennis courts every day af-ter school for the past two years 
at Aces In Motion, a nonproﬁ  t 
built on tutoring and coaching 
East Gainesville middle and high 
schoolers, Ford feels set on a path toward Bethune-Cookman Univer-sity, his dream school.
“They gave us something to 
look forward to,” the Eastside High School ninth-grader said of how he felt when he joined AIM 
in 2015. “It’s just been crazy… to 
even go to college.”
Ford’s story — that of a young 
black student feeling left behind in 
Alachua County’s Public Schools system — is not unique.
For the past three years, Ala-
chua County has had the largest achievement gap between white and black students on state exams 
across all 67 Florida counties, a 
Florida Department of Education information portal reveals.
Alachua County’s black stu-dents signiﬁ  cantly underperform compared to its white students across all four subjects of the Flor-ida Standard Assessment, an end-of-the-year exam required for third through 10th-graders.
Passing the exam means scor-
ing three or higher on a one to ﬁ  ve 
scale.
Last year, the FSA language arts 
exam had a 45 percent achieve-
ment gap with only 29 percent of the county’s 5,982 black students between third and 10th grade and 74 percent of the county’s 7,678 white students passing.
The white-black achievement 
gap for the FSA mathematics exam 
was 42 percent.
On the social studies exam the 
gap was 42 percent.
For science it was 47.
For Hispanic students, who 
make up about 10 percent of the total student population, the 
achievement gap between white 
students was 20 percent on the 
language arts FSA, tied for sixth 
largest in the state.
Gainesville resident Anne 
Koterba, who collects education data, said the gaping race problem in public education is forgotten.
“People like me, white people, 
look at problems in the school being like a parent problem, ‘Oh 
Gators looking to bounce back
After a blowout loss to FSU, the men’s 
basketball team is back at home tonight, pg. 18Students express themselves on Turlington
Check out the photo story, pg. 10
A happy UF holiday for President Fuchs
UF students designed his holiday card, pg. 5VOLUME 112 ISSUE 42
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Kelly Daly
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is one of three sites nationwide to host a 
prototype of a solar-powered charging station.
The energy efﬁ  cient charging station was in-
stalled on Turlington Plaza on Nov. 27, wrote 
Allen Masters, the assistant director of Facilities Services at UF, in an email. 
The prototype stands approximately 20 feet 
high and has four USB ports. UF partnered with Legrand, the parent company of RAB Lighting, to get the charging station.
“In order to improve the physical environ-
ment, we must often seek out new processes 
and test new systems that will help us achieve 
this mission,” Masters said.
Masters said Legrand reached out to UF Facil-
ities Services to see if they would be interested in testing one of their solar-powered charging stations. UF agreed, and the unit was installed free of charge as long as UF provides feedback 
on the design.
Facilities Services has worked with RAB 
Lighting in the past to develop specialty LED 
lighting ﬁ  xtures.
Masters said the prototype had to be installed 
in a high-trafﬁ  c location where students gath-ered for a long period of time. Turlington Plaza seemed to be an ideal location, he said.
Nico Tuckﬁ  eld, the president of UF Engineers 
for Sustainability and a UF philosophy and civil engineering senior, said he was happy to see the solar panel.
“I love solar panels,” the 22-year-old said. 
“The sun powers our bodies quite literally. We might as well use the sun to power our society as well.” UF chosen to test solar panel 
station installed on Turlington SEE SCHOOL,  PAGE 11
THE CAMPAIGN HAS RAISED 
$1,363 OF ITS $5,000 GOAL.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Eric Ramos is like a father ﬁ  gure 
to his friend Brianna Lett.
“My mom is a single mom, and 
if I need something I automatically 
think of Ramos,” Lett said. “I’ve never had a male ﬁ  gure to look up to like that.”
When Lett, a UF applied physi-
ology and kinesiology sophomore, saw Ramos in a coma in UF Health Shands Hospital on Saturday night, the 20-year-old said she broke down 
crying.As of press time, Ramos, the 
former UF chapter president of Phi 
Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc., is in 
critical condition after a motorcycle 
accident that happened near 100 SW 62nd Blvd. at about 2 a.m. on Friday, according to the Gainesville Sun. Lett said he suffered a broken 
femur and pelvis.
Ramos, 30, graduated from UF in 
Fall of 2016 as a family, youth and community sciences student, Lett 
said.
“When I walked in, I just felt like 
a wave of pain and sadness,” she said. “My heart was, like, shattered 
because it’s so sad to see someone GoFundMe page started 
for injured UF alumnus
SEE ACCIDENT,  PAGE 9Alachua County schools have an equity problem, data shows
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Trinidad Balderas, 11, does his homework on one of the computers provided by the Aces In Motion 
youth program at the Florida Gym on Tuesday. 
ities Services to see if they would be interested 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
HIGH  80° LOW  49°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply Now for 2018-19 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid 
(FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 
2018-19 FAFSA is now avail-able. UF’s “on-time” deadline to receive the results of your 
2018-19 FAFSA from the feder-
al processor is Dec. 15. Apply 
well before Dec. 15 to ensure 
that the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and 
best aid. For more information 
or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visitfafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/con-tact-sfa. 
Primatology researchers to 
speak on mountain gorilla conservationGeorge A. Smathers Libraries is hosting two leading prima-
tologists to discuss their work 
with the mountain gorillas of East Africa. Tara Stoinski of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund and David Watts of Yale University will lecture on their current and past conservation and re-search efforts Wednesday from noon to 3 p.m. in Smathers 
Library East, Room 100. The 
talk complements the exhibit “Bob Campbell’s Photographs of Dian Fossey’s Karisoke Research Center, 1968-1972” in the Smathers Library Lobby Gallery.
UF Environmental Horticulture 
Club’s 21st Annual Poinsettia Show and SaleThe UF Environmental Horticulture Club is hosting its annual poinsettia show and sale Thursday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Horticultural Greenhouses behind Fifield Hall, located at 2550 Hull 
Road. The event features a 
8,000 square foot display, and the club has produced more than 2,000 plants. The event is free and open to all ages. 
Ugly Christmas Sweater 
ContestBlackadder Brewing is host-
ing an ugly Christmas sweater 
contest with prizes Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the brewery, located at 618-A NW 60th St. The brewery is also releasing a winter beer called Warm Cockels. Bring an un-wrapped donation to get half off your first beer. For more 
information visit blackadder-
brewing.com 
Family Day: Art for Autism
UF Health Psychiatry, Harn Museum of Art and UF Health Shands Arts in Medicine are hosting an arts museum tour for families with children 
8-years-old to 12-years-old 
that will be sensory friendly for those with autism. The tour will be Saturday from 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. at the Harn, located at 3259 Hull Road, and will be free. Pre-registration is required, and space is limited. To register, contact Elizabeth King at eking@harn.ufl.edu or 
at 352-294-7061.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
Corrections
In a story published Wednesday titled "UF Health initiative to promote local creativity with social media," Create in Place is a UF Health initiative, Charlotte Kesl is the coordinator of 352Creates, and 
Create in Place will take place 
Feb. 25. The Alligator reported differently. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 42
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE9GAINESVILLE.com •  1404 W UNIVErSITy A VE, S UITE 10, GAINESVILLE, F L 
TExT NINEGAINESVILLE To 47464 To STAy Up To dATE ! 
@THE9GAINESVILLE • 352.389.5383 ••	Coffee	Bar	with		
Complimentary	Starbucks
•	Bowling	Alley
•	Pool	Volleyball
•	Community	Fire	Pit	
•	Lounge	Hammocks
•	Corn	Hole
•	Luxury	Spa
•	Private	Pool	Cabanas
•	Zero	Entry	Pool
•	Gaming	lounge	with	Pool	Table,	
Ping	Pong,	Air	Hockey
•	iMac	Computer	Station•	Jumbo-Tron
•	Two-Story	Fitness	Facility
•	TV	Lounge	with	Xbox 	One	and	
PS4
•	Tanning	Bed	&		Tanning	Booth
•	Fitness/Yoga	Studio	with	Fitness	on	Demand
•	Ultra-High-Speed	Wi-Fi	in	Common	Areas	
•	50"	4k	Flat-Screen	TVs
•	Robust	Cable	Package
•	Located	in	the	Heart	of		Sorority	Row 	•	Walk-In	Closets	in	Select	Units
•	Private	Balcony	in	Select	Units
•	Electronic	Unit		Entry	Locks	
•	BBQ	Grills
•	Ceiling	Fans	in	Living	Room		&	Bedroom
•	Granite	Kitchen	&	Bathroom	Countertops	
•	Private	Ultra-High	Speed	Internet
•	Private	Study	Rooms	with	60"	Touchscreen	Monitors
•	And	so	much	more!
LIVE LIFE To THE 9’S
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here •  352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 BREAKFAST
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man told police he stole 
tools from Lowe’s on Monday because his 
tools were stolen, Gainesville Police said.
John Anderson Tyler, 49, took a 
204-piece Kobalt tool 
set and knife from 
Lowe’s, located at 2564 NW 13th St., and left 
the store without pay-ing for the items, ac-cording to an arrest report. A witness saw Tyler commit the theft, police said.
Later in the day, Tyler returned to 
Lowe’s and tried to leave the store with $825.95 worth of items in his shopping cart without paying, according to the re-port.
After his arrest, he admitted to stealing 
from Lowe’s, according to the report. He told detectives that someone had stolen all of his tools recently, and he needed to replace them, Detective Matthew Goeckel, a GPD spokesperson, wrote in an email.
Tyler was also arrested on Oct. 22 for 
taking a 24-can case of Natural Light from Walmart, located at 1800 NE 12th Ave., and leaving the store without paying for 
it, according to an arrest report.
Tyler was arrested on a charge of grand 
theft at about 4:10 p.m. and taken to the 
Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $10,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgHE TOLD POLICE HE CHECKS ON A 
WOMAN WHO HAS A RESTRAINING 
ORDER AGAINST HIM.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Hawthorne man was recorded in the 
backyard of a woman who had a restraining 
order against him Monday. He told police he 
checks on her, Gainesville Police said.
Kenyata Tremayne Mayes, 
39, was seen by a woman 
in her backyard through her 
home’s video surveillance system at about 9:16 p.m., according to the report. The 
woman, who has a restrain-
ing order against Mayes, 
called police.
A responding ofﬁ  cer said Mayes walked into the backyard, got on his hands and knees and looked into the back sliding glass door of the home in the video twice in about 20 min-utes.
He was served the restraining order about 
two years ago and told by a judge to stay 500 feet away from the woman’s home, according to the report. He was found guilty of stalking the woman after making several phone calls to her cell phone and waiting outside her church.
The ofﬁ  cer found Mayes a block away from 
the woman’s home, and Mayes told police he sleeps in the woman’s yard every night be-
cause he is homeless, according to the report. 
He said he checks on the woman, police said.
Mayes was arrested on a charge of stalking 
and violating a court order and taken to  the 
Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of 
press time, in lieu of a $100,000.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: Man loses tools, 
steals tools from Lowe’sGPD: Man charged with stalking
Tyler
Mayes
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
Welcome BackADVERTISE WITH THE ALLIGATOR
352-376-4482  advertising@alligator.orgDEADLINE 12/13/2017  
RUN DATE 1/8/2018Contact Your  
Sales Rep T odayEDITION SPRING 2018
IT WOULD GIVE 
STUDENTS AN EXTRA 
WEEK TO GET A BALLOT.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
After Inspire Party senators 
tried to pass a bill to expand the 
absentee ballot process for Student Government Spring elections with-out consulting the UF supervisor of 
elections, the initiative failed.
Two Inspire senators submitted legislation to extend the deadline 
for students to request an absentee ballot from up to two weeks before the final day of elections to one week before.
Although the bill passed 
through the SG Judiciary Commit-tee on Sunday, the bill was tabled until Spring at Tuesday’s Senate meeting.
SG Supervisor of Elections Erica 
Baker told senators she was con-cerned the bill’s timeline wouldn’t allow students to turn in the bal-lots on time.Majority party leader Sen. 
Trevor Schaettle (Impact, District B) motioned to postpone the bill until Spring after hearing Baker’s concerns and seeing Senate Presi-dent Ian Green’s initiative to create 
a committee for code revisions. His 
motion passed unanimously.
Baker asked senators to con-
tact her prior to passing bills that would impact elections in the fu-ture.
“I would like to be consulted 
on these things,” Baker said. “I literally found about this yester-day, which is why I’m here kind of rushed.”
Sen. Benjamin Lima (Inspire, 
District D), one of the bill’s au-thors, said they didn’t reach out to Baker because they reached out 
to her a few weeks ago for another 
bill, and that she told them her of-fice would comply with the codes.
“I’m doubtful she would be 
open to help us, but it would be nice,” he said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
Bill extending absentee ballot deadline tabled until Spring
Current deadline to request an 
absentee ballot: second Wednesday preceding the elections
Bill’s proposed deadline to request 
an absentee ballot: fourth business day before the elections
The bill would also require Student 
Government to provide physical copies of the absentee ballots instead of only electronic ones.
By Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer
Instead of buying a commercial holiday 
card, UF President Kent Fuchs and his wife, 
Linda Fuchs, set out to find the perfect one de-signed by UF students.
Fuchs said his office contacted the UF 
School of Art + Art History to see if anyone was interested in making the card design a class project. Jarred Elrod, a UF assistant pro-fessor who teaches a course in typography, di-vided one of his classes into five groups who competed to create the card.
UF graphic design junior Kendal Jones, a 
student on the winning team, said her team wasn’t sure if they would win because they 
used the laser cutting lab and foiling — two 
expensive and time-consuming techniques. 
“It was really nerve-racking and exciting,” 
the 21-year-old said about the brainstorming process. “We spent a lot of late nights in the studio making sure it was flowing.” 
When she found out they won, Jones said 
she felt honored.
“It was definitely rewarding,” she said.
The winning card features 32 icons which 
represent categories that make UF unique, cut 
out on white paper over gold foil. Jones said these include Century Tower, the bat houses, a stethoscope and a butterfly representing the Florida Museum of Natural History. They also included symbols to represent school spirit, in-cluding the Gatorade logo and the Albert and Alberta statute. 
The message inside reads “Warmest Wish-
es,” which Jones described as a play on words about Florida’s hot weather.
The project simulated a real-life clientele 
process for the students, who had three weeks 
to craft their designs. A representative from 
Fuchs’ office presented the purpose, goals, ob-jective, theme, audience, budget and timeline of the project. One of the main requirements was to make the card non denominational, Jones said.
The groups presented their ideas to the 
Fuchses, got feedback and then submitted their final designs. 
“They were all great,” Fuchs said. “I would 
have been happy with any on them, but both Linda and I liked how the one we picked was both simple and elegant.”
As a token of their appreciation, the Fuchses 
sent each student who participated in the chal-lenge a ballpoint pen and a thank you note. They also donated $1,000 to the art program.
Fuchs spent Monday afternoon signing 
about 300 cards by hand to send out to alumni, donors and elected officials. An electronic copy of the card will be sent to all students, as well as faculty and staff members, by the end of the week.
“I love that it was designed by students,” 
Fuchs said. “It makes it so personal.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUF students design UF President Fuchs’ holiday card
Courtesy to the Alligator
The winning card features 32 icons, which represent categories that make UF unique, cut 
out on white paper over gold foil. The message inside the winning card reads “Warmest Wishes, ” which Jones described as a play on words about Florida’s hot weather.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORTake care of yourself ﬁ  rst (HELP HELP HELP) 
Confession time: after four semesters of 
reporting and editing, writing in ﬁ  rst per-
son is going to be a challenge. So, buckle in.
I started a draft of this goodbye col-
umn in October. It wasn’t because I was ready 
to leave the Alligator, but that I was terriﬁ  ed of it 
ending without me leaving some grand legacy. I was also having one of those nights when ﬁ  nding 
motivation was a challenge — more on that later.
When I ﬁ  rst walked into the Alligator ofﬁ  ce 
(R.I.P. 1105 W. University Ave.), I was a terriﬁ  ed freshman 
with bright blue hair and aggressively red lipstick. I was there 
for open house because my friend Alena dragged me along, 
and I had zero conﬁ  dence in my ability to be a real journalist. 
(Thank you Alena. We should get lunch soon.)
I was an anxious sophomore starting as a contributor, ter-
riﬁ  ed of the metro editor and ending as a staff writer terri-
ﬁ  ed to attend UF board of trustees meetings. But I faked my way through it, and looking back I wrote some pretty good 
articles.
Even as a junior covering Student Government and run-
ning the university desk, I had a hard time thinking I was do-
ing a good job. I have this thing where I think I don’t deserve 
whatever position I’m in — aka imposter syndrome. It sucks.
So I pretended I knew what I was doing and that I could 
manage my school work and the perfectionism inherent in 
journalism. It worked pretty well until it really didn’t.
At the end of Fall 2016 I sucked it up and started going 
to therapy, which lasted the entire year. Once summer rolled around I had a pretty good idea I suffered from severe anxiety 
and mild to pretty awful depression. It didn’t stop as editor-
in-chief this year. I came to work in every state between di-
sheveled “haven’t combed my hair in two days and might 
have just been crying” to full on glam makeup and an “every-
thing is perfect” attitude. (Spoiler alert: It rarely was.)
If you’re wondering why I’m being a buzzkill and talking 
about my mental health in a goodbye column, it’s because I 
still want to leave a legacy at the Alligator. It might not be as glorious as past editors, but that’s OK. I just want 
the people I leave behind to realize they don’t 
have to be perfect.
As journalism students, we’re under insane 
pressure. We can’t just write a story; we have to live tweet, Facebook Live, take photos, shoot 
video and update Snapchat. We aren’t going to 
be paid well ever, but are told we shouldn’t care about the money. So we go hungry and eat Ra-
men noodles for dinner instead of getting a part-
time job. We’re told we should work on data 
skills, coding, investigative pieces and hard news. Get things online as fast as possible. Don’t care about grades, even if 
you’re on a scholarship. Dedicate yourself to the art. Don’t 
ever stop.
That doesn’t have to be the case. You can take a day to 
yourself. You can say no to your editor when you need to 
write that essay for class. You can put off learning coding 
until next semester when you have more free time. Take care of yourself ﬁ  rst; the world won’t end, and you’ll still be a 
kick-ass journalist. (Even if “HELP HELP HELP” accidentally 
makes it into a headline.) 
If I could go talk to that terriﬁ  ed sophomore, I would tell 
her to stop trying to be perfect. I would say she’s human, 
and she’s allowed to make mistakes. It will make her a better 
journalist and person when she learns to grow from them.
To the journalists I’ve worked with over the years: You’ve 
taught me more than any professor. Special shoutout to Caitlin Ostroff and Melissa Gomez for always picking up the 
phone when I needed them. And, of course, thank you, Mi-
chael Smith, for helping me hold this paper down during a 
whirlwind of a semester. I couldn’t have done it without you, 
even if we almost killed each other a few times.
So here we are four semesters later. I’m a different person 
now, but I still wear my aggressively red lipstick occasionally. 
Take care of yourself, everyone, and go make a paper.
Katelyn Newberg is a journalism senior and Alligator Fall 
2017 editor-in-chief.  Final unsolicited 
advice from the 
opinions editor 
This week and the one that will follow are sure to generate 
a host of emotions for everyone at UF. We ﬁ  nd ourselves faced with endings, goodbyes and new beginnings. Not to mention the stress and anxiety that inevitably accom-pany the slew of ﬁ  nal exams and papers thrust upon us. 
Needless to say, the vast majority of us are emotional wrecks right now.
With emotion, at least for me, often comes reﬂ  ection. I have 
thus found myself thinking through my personal high and low points this semester. While it is certainly important to commend personal accomplishments and celebrate our victories, I believe it is even more important to identify the times we fell and learn why we did. If we allow ourselves to be consistently contempt with adequacy, we will never become as great as we have the 
potential to be. Consequently, I want to use my last editorial of 
the semester to offer you some unsolicited advice. I invite you, dear reader, to put this emotional time to good use. In other words, I invite you to reﬂ  ect on and advance yourself.
First, assess your goals, and in turn evaluate which elements 
of your life have helped you most on the road to achieving them. If you ﬁ  nd that certain parts are holding you back, do not hesitate to let them go. Throughout my now nearly three years at UF, this is something I have found crucial.
 In college, we are all growing. We are all changing and turn-
ing into the people we are meant to be. Sometimes, this means we outgrow our friends we’ve had around since freshman year. Other times it means cutting ties with the organizations we once held close to our hearts. It can be hard, but concluding things that are no longer beneﬁ  cial to you can make way for an even better replacement.
To me, endings provide a way to secure smart beginnings. 
As humans, we are creatures of habit. This means we are bound 
to make the same mistakes and think the same way we always 
have. We, of course, can try our best to alter the way we are and oftentimes will ﬁ  nd ourselves successful in this endeavour.  But, as I have learned, this takes effort on our part, and it re-quires us to make changes we sometimes don’t want to make.
As some of us near the end of our college experience, these 
choices become all the more crucial. I am about to ﬁ  nish my ﬁ  rst semester as a junior at UF, meaning I’m ofﬁ  cially over half-way done with college. With this milestone, I’ve looked back at 
who I was when I came to college and who I am ﬁ  ve semesters 
later. 
Like almost all other freshmen, I was, to put it nicely, annoy-
ing. I relished in the newfound freedom of college and swore up and down the friends I’d made in the ﬁ  rst few weeks of school would be my closest friends for life. I felt conﬁ  dent after going through a few introductory classes for my major that I knew exactly what I wanted to do with my life and felt sorry for the older classmates I saw who were still ﬁ  guring it out. I really did 
think I was on top of the world.
Thankfully by my second semester I got a dose of humility 
and realized change is good. Making new friends and leaving 
behind toxic ones is good. Changing your career goals to better ﬁ  t a life with which you would be happy is good. Putting your-self ﬁ  rst is good.
Please, dear reader, take with you my last piece of uninvited 
guidance, and don’t be scared to change your life. It could al-ways be for the better.
Katelyn 
Newberg
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
227 NW 23rd Ave
Gainesville, FL 32609maggie@carpet1floorandhome.com352.380.9797Maggie Crane
Manager/Owner15%
discount
CarpetOne.com
®The stress of this job has killed our social, 
physical and spiritual well-beings. Still, we 
have learned more than two things that have 
made us the people we wanted to see in the mirror when we were 7 years old.
Back then, we had dreams. Then, they were 
dashed by an abusive husband who coveted 
whiskey more than our aspirations, the son of a 
gun. But, having been at the Alligator for some time, we’ve learned that whiskey and abusive husbands aren’t everything.
For example, one of the more than two 
things we learned at the Alligator is that the clock never strikes more than the timer allows. In fact, it strikes more than double the timer does. If you’re not making sense of the meta-
phor, let us clarify with a personal anecdote 
that will illuminate the ﬁ  gurative language. 
When we were children, we looked up at 
the clock. The clock was wooden, and had carvings of alligators up and down the sides, 
chomping away at the seconds, as they were. 
We didn’t know it then, but those alligators spoke of our destiny. So, in our freshman year, we applied to join the Alligator copy desk, with 
stars in our eyes and egg timers in our pockets.
See, as copy editors, we were forced to work 
under tight deadlines. Looking at stories and 
correcting their grammar felt like arduous tasks at ﬁ  rst, but eventually it began to feel like clock-
work. The ticking of the 
second hand became a soothing sound that comforted us all our days in the ofﬁ  ce.
On the ﬁ  nal day of 
the semester, the clock broke. This was when we knew we had to leave. So, we spent two years packing up our 
things and saying our goodbyes to the people 
who loved us. We didn’t have much, and we didn’t know many, but somehow, it took two years all the same — two years of copy-editing, 
packing, saying goodbye and climbing the lad-
der that is the Alligator.
We bet they’re all ready for us to get the 
hell out. We think it’s time to mosey down the long road into the sunset, the sunset being a 
place that isn’t the Alligator. Although we’re 
not graduating right now, and we will still have to work endless nights on homework and such, the sunset will still be nice to view. See, we’re 
walking toward the sunset but we cannot see 
it, because there is a hill in front of us, that hill being the second thing of more than two things that we learned at the Alligator.That hill, believe it 
or not, is the family we 
made in the ofﬁ  ce. That 
doesn’t mean the copi-ous babies we had while in the ofﬁ  ce, you silly rascal. But rather, the 
many people who had 
to tolerate our constant presence and incessant phone calls. We are 
grateful that they didn’t hurt us very much 
physically, and we are even more grateful that 
none of them actually followed through with the restraining order.
Speaking of which, one night in the ofﬁ  ce, 
we were typing away at our computer, mind-ing our own business when, all of the sudden, the metro editor frothed at the mouth and be-gan chanting Scandinavian last names at the broken clock. Clearly, this broken clock meant 
something to all of us. So, we took it upon our-
selves to ﬁ  x it, for the betterment of the frothing metro editor and the ofﬁ  ce as a whole. But not everyone enjoyed the ﬁ  xed clock.
The assistant sports editor had always hated 
that clock; we think it hurt his family at some point in the past, but we never bothered to ask. The haunted look in his eye said it all. Moments after we had ﬁ  xed the clock and hung it on the wall, the assistant sports editor, without any-
one else seeing, threw a football at the clock 
and struck it off the wall. Enraged, we picked up the football and threw it back at him, when he wasn’t looking. The football drilled through his clavicle and left him hospitalized for ﬁ  ve 
months, during which he was fed little more 
than gruel and peach Jello.
Thus, a restraining order was proposed. It 
broke our hearts to see so many hands raised in afﬁ  rmation of the restraining order, but we un-
derstood that the situation looked bleak. Alas, 
our copy desk family swooped in and saved the day, attesting to our moral and spiritual char-acters. 
And so we learned the second of more than 
two lessons: Family comes ﬁ  rst. 
What are the other things, you may ask? 
Well, readers, perhaps you’d ﬁ  nd it best to dis-cover them for yourself. Following the restrain-
ing order ﬁ  asco, we lost the respect of many 
of our coworkers and saw ﬁ  t our time to leave the Alligator. Two years later, we step away from our position and impart to you these ﬁ  nal 
words:
Never forget the broken clock or the people 
who will defend you for ﬁ  xing it.
Amanda and Michael finally get to say goodbye to the AlligatorColumn
Michael Smith
editor@alligator.org
Amanda Price
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
THEY ARE THE FIRST 
HOSPITALS IN THE 
U.S. TO DO SO.
By Juan Lozano
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two newly opened UF Health 
facilities, which cost $425 million to 
build, are the ﬁ  rst medical facilities in the U.S. to get a four out of four Green Globe sustainability rating.
The Green Building Initiative, 
a nonproﬁ  t that certiﬁ  es the Green Globes, gives a standard rating based on aspects including project manage-ment, energy, water, materials and resources of the building.
The UF Health Heart & Vascular 
and UF Neuromedicine Hospitals, 
which had a ribbon cutting ceremo-
ny in early November, have been the only hospitals to get a perfect score based on all ﬁ  elds.
Brad Politt, UF Health Shands 
vice president of facilities, said the certiﬁ  cation comes at the end of a three-and-a-half year process.
“We asked at the beginning of design because we wanted the archi-tects and engineers to be on board early,” Politt said.
Shaina Weinstein, the vice presi-
dent of engagement for Green Build-ing Initiative, said one aspect that 
helped UF Health win the award was 
it brought in specialists working on the project early to sketch blueprints, called integrated design. She said this helps them avoid redoing steps while building. 
“The process of building is very 
complicated, and if not everybody is in the same place then there is a lot of room for error, and a lot of those mistakes will result in not achieving the sustainability that was the goal in the ﬁ  rst place,” Weinstein said.
One of the innovations that 
helped the hospitals rank highly was 
an on-site energy center, Politt said.
The sustainability-savvy build-
ings are connected to what Politt 
said UF Health engineers have nick-named the “umbilical cord.” This is a concrete-reinforced network of pipes and cables stemming from the on-site energy plant that pumps elec-tricity and water into the new facili-ties.
Generating the power on-site is 
more energy efﬁ  cient, Politt said.
He said the heat that comes off 
the energy center gets turned into steam and chilled water.
“We essentially recycle what 
would have been thrown-away heat,” he said.
Politt said they also reused a tree 
growing on site, which would have been knocked down.
“We actually harvested a pecan 
tree and turned it into an awesome table and some chairs,” he said.
New UF Shands hospitals get perfect sustainability rating
THE SYSTEM COST 
ABOUT $400,000.
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
After delays from Hurricane 
Irma, the UF Housing and Resi-dence Education’s new mail locker system had a soft launch in Jennings Hall on Monday.
The new locker system, which 
will be installed in 12 housing ar-eas across campus, is meant to 
streamline the package delivery 
process. Sara Tanner, the direc-tor of marketing and communica-tions for the Division of Student Affairs, said there have been no additional costs with the delay and said the total cost for the new system is about $400,000. 
Tanner said UF Housing hoped to open the lockers in 
October, but had to wait for a 
software update. She expects the other lockers to open sometime in Spring.
Lockers have about 70 units 
and students can access them day or night, Tanner said.
Graham Woods, a UF ﬁ  nance 
freshman living in Jennings Hall, 
said he’s enjoyed the package 
system.
“I guess it’s kind of nice be-
cause you can pick it up any time of day,” the 19-year-old said. 
The lockers are electronic sys-
tems that will allow students ac-cess with a code emailed to them. Once the locker system opens in 
all 12 areas, students will have 
24/7 access to packages. 
Danann Bledsoe, the assistant 
director for area desk operations, said packages will be delivered 
to a central location maintained 
by the housing ofﬁ  ce and sorted. Overnight and express packages will get priority.
“It’s very user-friendly, and 
I think that our students are re-ally going to resonate with the process because it’s really built for the modern student,” Bledsoe 
said. 
Once the mailing system un-
veils across campus, it may take 
students time to adjust, she said. 
“We anticipate it helping a 
great deal with the load of the packages coming in and being able to be more efﬁ  cient for stu-dents,” Tanner said. “But, ulti-
mately, when students’ feedback 
comes in then we can do what we need to do and adjust based of off their feedback.” Mail lockers open in Jennings
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua man stole an iPhone 
charger and was shocked with a stun gun, chased and arrested on Monday, Alachua Police Department said.
Kelvin Robinson, 
37, told a Circle K clerk he was going to shoplift an iPhone 
charger, which was worth $9.99, from the gas station, lo-cated at 15089 NW US Highway 441, at about 12:45 p.m., 
and then took the charger, according to an arrest report. Police found Robin-son in front of an AT&T store, located 15604 Main St., and an ofﬁ  cer said Robinson was hesitant to walk toward them.
After he walked over, the ofﬁ  cer 
went to grab Robinson by his left arm, but Robinson snatched his arm away and swung at the ofﬁ  cer with his other arm, according to the report. The of-ﬁ  cer ordered Robinson to get on the ground, and Robinson backed away.
The ofﬁ  cer said he used a stun gun 
on Robinson twice without any result. 
Robinson ﬂ  ed on foot for a third of a 
mile, where other ofﬁ  cers arrested him.
Robinson was arrested on charges 
of theft, assaulting a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer and resisting arrest without vio-lence. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $15,000 bond.APD: Man steals charger, 
shocked with stun gun
Robinson
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HE AND HIS FAMIL Y 
DISCOVERED A LOST 
TOWN FROM THE 1500S.
By Julia Renner
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 21-year-old UF student 
was honored in the Congressio-
nal Record for assisting with a 
historic discovery.
Ethan White, a UF history 
junior, was part of the team 
that discovered the conquista-
dor Hernando de Soto’s 1539 
encampment near Orange Lake, Florida. White participated in the multiple-year dig when he was in high school and submit-
ted his ﬁ  ndings to the Florida 
Museum of Natural History.
White said he was shocked 
at being honored by the U.S. 
Congress, especially because 
the excavation happened years ago. It was his ﬁ  rst time doing archaeological ﬁ  eldwork, he said.
“It makes me feel like I have 
contributed something not only to the community of historians but the community in general,” 
White said. 
White said he is honored to 
represent UF nationally with 
the award. 
“It made me proud to be a 
Gator,” he said. 
White comes from a family 
deeply involved in the archeo-logical community, he said. He and his family worked together to discover the lost city of Pota-
no, the town of the indigenous 
Potano tribe and the location of de Soto’s encampment.
His father, a surgeon and 
former professional archae-ologist, Dr. Ashley White, de-
scribes his son as brilliant. He said his son is a talented musi-
cian with his own album out on iTunes titled “Rock Man,” and is a UF Anderson Scholar and 
University Scholar.
“He has all these other inter-
ests that are just neat,” he said.
Ashley White said Ethan 
White spent his childhood vis-
iting different archaeological sites around the world. Dur-ing the de Soto excavation, he said his son organized groups 
of student volunteers to photo-
graph and unearth artifacts. 
The Whites discovered arti-
facts in the excavation process 
that date back to the late 16th 
century, Ethan White said.
“A lot of this stuff was basi-
cally a time capsule, like those crossbow arrows we found,” 
White said. “They hadn’t been 
touched by human hands since one of de Soto’s guys loaded the crossbow and shot it.”
Along with the crossbow ar-
row tips, White said he found chainmail armor and the bones of a domesticated pig the Span-ish brought over. 
White said he hopes his 
discovery can get people in-terested in a period of North 
American history that often 
gets overlooked. 
“It’s really the story of the 
roots of the United States before 
the United States of America 
was even a thought,” he said. 
In regards to his future, 
White said he has aspirations for law school or academia. For 
now, the self-proclaimed ad-
venturous spirit will continue to discover pieces of history at UF, he said. 
“Archeology is a fun way to 
play detective, so to speak,” he 
said.Congress honors UF 
student’s discovery
like happy about life and cheer-
ful (lying) in a bed like that all banged up and everything.”
Lett said she started a Go-
FundMe page on Saturday to raise $5,000 to go toward Ramos’ medi-cal expenses, and she expects to 
reach the goal within the next 
few weeks. The page has $1,363 raised, as of press time. Lett said she will continue to raise money past the goal.
“I know that him being in 
Shands and still in that critical condition he still has a really long way to recover, and that’s a lot of medical expenses,” she said. 
“He’s touched so many people 
and mentored so many people, and I knew that if I started this, a lot of people would support him.”
Chris Haugabook, a friend of 
Ramos and his fraternity brother, said when he and 20 to 30 other friends and family members visit-ed the hospital, they said a prayer 
to support Ramos.
“He really touched so many 
lives in just the short time he’s 
been here in Gainesville,” the 
2014 UF family, youth and com-
munity sciences alumnus said. “He’s the type of person that he’ll literally give you the shirt off his back if he had to.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
ACCIDENT,  from pg. 1Ramos’ fraternity brothers started the 
fundraiser for his medical expenses
Courtesy to the Alligator
Eric Ramos poses after his graduation in Fall 2016. The UF alumnus is critically injured after a motorcycle 
accident Friday.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Courtney Dougherty, 18, a UF biology and international relations freshman paints a sandwich 
while attending UF Freshman Leadership Council’s Walk of Art event on  the Plaza of the Americas Tuesday afternoon.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Yumna Sami, an 18-year-old UF psychology and Spanish freshman, paints a henna tattoo on a student attending the Walk of Art hosted by the UF Freshman Leadership Council on the Plaza of the Americas. Yumma has been painting henna since she was 10 years old.
Students gathered on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday to participate in Walk of Art, a pop-up art show hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council. The event promoted self-expression and relaxation before finals week
.THE ART OF EXPRESSIONthose parents, oh those kids don’t 
want to learn,’” she said. “You’ll hear that all the time from white 
people, but black don’t see it that 
way; they see the system that set all this up.”
The No. 1 reason for the gap is 
poverty, ACPS spokesperson Jack-ie Johnson said.
According to FDE enrollment 
data, 59.7 percent of students con-sidered economically disadvan-taged this year are black.
Overcrowding is an issue in 
West Gainesville, Jackson said.
She also stated the gap was 
partly due to Alachua County’s 
white students performing ex-
tremely high, and not because 
black students are performing as 
poorly as in other Florida counties.
The district is very much com-
mitted to increasing black achieve-
ment, she said.
“We’ve set very speciﬁ  c targets 
for each one of our schools that are focused on the performance 
for African-American students and 
economically disadvantaged stu-
dents,” Johnson said.
Chanae Baker, a Gainesville 
mother of three and education activist, said higher white perfor-mance shouldn’t excuse the gap.
Baker said the ﬁ  rst step to ad-
dressing equity and black achieve-ment is to make it a priority and outline real, concrete steps — like re-zoning and diversifying eastside schools.
“We have the resources, it’s 
about where we’re putting them,” she said. “We have a habit of talk-
ing about how we’re going to ﬁ  x 
it, but we need to actually step up and do something.”
After 14 years teaching 11th 
and 12th grade English at East-
side, Amanda Lacy-Shitama said 
she’s seen the pattern outside her classroom, which is more than  90 percent black.
Lacy-Shitama said the segrega-
tion in the school is apparent in 
where students sit during lunch. 
Her students told her the divide extends to where they park in the student lot.
“They said, ‘Oh look, Ms. Lacy, 
this where the black kids park, and that’s where the white kids park,’” she said.
The disparities manifest them-
selves in racially divided test 
scores even internally within 
schools.
At Eastside last year, only 
17.8 percent of black 10th grad-
ers passed their language arts FSA 
exam, contrasted with 89.8 percent of white students who passed, ac-
cording to FDE testing data.
“With a lot of my kids, it’s not 
a question of their intelligence or 
whether they’re smart; they are,” 
Lacy-Shitama said. “There’s not a 
lot of support for them.”
Lacy-Shatima said she hears 
stories of overcrowding in west-side schools and looks at some of 
the empty seats in her own class-
room.
“We’ve got plenty of room 
here,” she said.
For Addison Staples, change 
comes by inspiring one teenager 
at a time.
Staples started his Aces In Mo-
tion youth program in 2011 as a 
way to mentor underprivileged kids through tennis lessons after school. Then the 3-year-old start-ed asking about their goals — and 
their grades.
“You quickly realize that real-ity was going to be hard for them 
if they continued making those grades,” he said. “Their dreams and goals — it would be a tough road to achieve those.”
So Staples shifted his program 
to focus on academics.
Now, every day Staples’ 35 mid-
dle schoolers and about 14 high schoolers — including 15-year-old Camryn Ford — play and study hard for three hours.
Starting at 3:30 p.m. it’s school 
work. Staples usually has about 20 
volunteers, some UF students, to 
tutor the kids. Then it can be any-thing from tennis to life skills to 
music and dance lessons.
Staples said he sees a system-
atic, generations-long neglect of 
Gainesville’s black youth. Staying involved is the best way he said he feels he can help.
“A lot of the kids have an uphill 
battle,” he said. “If we can do any-
thing about it, that’s what we’re 
going to try.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
Passing rate of Alachua County students
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
010203040506070
Math Social Studies Lang. Arts Science
 Lang. Arts
Lang. Arts
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
Passing rate of Alachua County students
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
Passing rate of Alachua County students
Social Studies
Social Studies
Social Studies
Social Studies
 Lang. Arts
Lang. Arts
80
Science
Science
 Lang. Arts
Lang. Arts
0
0
10
20
20
30
30
40
40
40
50
50
60
60
70
70
Math
Math
 Social Studies
Social Studies
80
80
80
90
Passing rate of Alachua County students
Passing rate of Alachua County students
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
Passing rate of Alachua County students
on 2016-2017 Florida Standard Assessment
Passing rate of Alachua County students
White students
Black studentsKEY
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator Staff Alachua County has Florida’s highest black-white achievement gap 
SCHOOL,  from pg. 1
•   •   •
•   •   •WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Of Montreal and Pearl and the Oysters to hit High Dive
The concert is  Tuesday at 8:30 p.m., pg. 13Not sure how to spend the holiday in 
Gainesville?
Check out our reccomendations, pg. 13Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Atlanta-based electronic music 
duo ATLiens will be performing at 
Simons on Friday night for their Space Cult Tour, playing along-side opening acts FLTHYVBZ and Frostbyte. The show is being hosted by Lucid Nightlife, which has been committed to bringing high-quality electronic events to 
Gainesville.
Matt Collins, promoter and 
owner of Lucid Nightlife, said 
they are able to choose talented 
acts due to having a good ear on 
which artists are popular and how 
the scene looks for in an event.
“I’m personally excited to have 
ATLiens playing here, since they 
are great producers and well re-
spected in the scene,” Collins 
said. “We have been looking to get them here for quite a few months, so I’m excited it’s ﬁ  nally 
happening.”
Danny Ospino, a 23-year-old 
Santa Fe graphic design senior, 
said he’s planning on attending the show after hearing ATLiens featured on a few of his favorite songs such as “Interlock,” “Al-chemy,” “Thank God” and “Cav-ern” and is looking forward to seeing them live.
“I’m looking forward to hav-
ing a good time with my friends to some good music,” Ospino said.
As an electronic music fan, 
Ospino said the genre allows for him to take a small break from reality to just let loose with the 
music.
“I really enjoy the creativity 
and sound design of electronic 
music,” Ospino said. “I like a 
mix of live and electronic though 
so I listen to people like Odesza, GRiZ, FKJ more than house mu-
sic. They all really promote love, which in today’s world is refresh-
ing.”
According to the event’s Face-
book page, hard copy tickets are 
already half sold out, but Collins said this news didn’t surprise him due to ATLiens being pretty well-known.
“The event also falls on a good 
date around ﬁ  nals where a lot of students are looking to blow off some steam and let loose for a night,” Collins said.
The large fan turnout is a per-
fect indication of Gainesville’s growing electronic music scene, which Collins said has grown in the last few years. Fans can expect a large crowd, great music and to 
be blown away by some insane 
added production from Guerrilla Productions, Collins said.
“We are expecting a large turn-
out for this event,” Collins said. 
“Since ATLiens are from Atlanta 
and have worked with high-tier artists such as Bassnectar, we have a lot of excited fans looking 
forward to the show.”
Lucid Nightlife is also hosting 
a charity event by giving reduced 
admission to anyone who brings non-perishable goods to the con-
cert which will be donated to the 
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank to 
help those in need.
The 18-and-up concert at Si-
mons will be Friday from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tickets are available at eventbrite.com and at the door.Atlanta duo ATLiens to perform at Simons 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
CATLiens, a duo based out of Atlanta that has worked with artists like Bassnectar, will hit Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time this weekend.
By Hannah Burkhart
Avenue Contributor 
The Indie Flea will welcome new shops for 
its ﬁ  nal monthly event at Depot Park on Sun-
day.
According to co-founder Seanissey Loughlin, 
the Gainesville Indie Flea will only be a quar-terly event in 2018, as it will be expanding to more cities across Florida.
She added that a local business and a pop-
up shop will be making their debut at the ﬁ  nal monthly event.
Endless Summer Ice Cream Co., a local shop, 
is going to handcraft made-to-order ice cream using a liquid nitrogen method at the event.
Blue Salvage, an Orlando pop-up shop, will 
join the ﬂ  ea market for the ﬁ  rst time, as well. 
Loughlin said that the shop is known for their 
vintage textiles.
“Crafters, makers and businesses from all 
over the state were eager to join each month in Depot Park for our fall season,” Loughlin said.
Loughlin said they were only able to take between 40 and 50 makers who applied for the monthly market. She is looking forward to invit-ing as many makers as possible to travel to the 
Indie Flea in its new venues across Florida in 
2018.
UF accounting senior Traci Post, who is from 
Tampa, is excited to visit the ﬁ  nal ﬂ  ea.
 “One of my favorite parts about my home-
town is the Tampa Indie Flea,” said the 21-year-old. “Visiting the Gainesville Indie Flea will make my college town feel more like home.”
Loughlin said that each market brings a new 
experience. These experiences are shaped by the unique venues and vendors that are show-cased at each market.
Experiences like being able to see what your 
neighbors are making, meeting your favorite traveling crafters when they visit your home-town, seeing your friends waiting in line at a food truck or meeting up with your family to grab a beer before checking out the vendors are 
what Loughlin said make each market special.
One of Loughlin’s favorite experiences 
was seeing new vendors and new visitors dis-covering the market each month.
“We would have to say our staple is the 
sense of community you feel at our event,” 
Loughlin said. “No two ﬂ  eas are ever really the same, but the same vibe is always there.”
The monthly showcase was held to keep creativity alive by the support of local creatives and their small businesses.
“That feeling of being part of something a 
little bit bigger than yourself, that’s something special,” Loughlin said. “At least that’s what keeps Indie Flea so important to us.”Indie Flea to hold last monthly event, extend to other  cities
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
This will be the last monthly edition of the Indie Flea, with the event becoming 
quarterly in 2018.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
The fantastical Georgia-native, 
primitive pop band Of Montreal will 
hit the High Dive stage Tuesday 
night with Pearl and the Oysters and 
Christina Schneider’s Genius Grant.
Opening band Pearl and the 
Oysters was built by French duo 
Juliette Davis and Joachim Polack. 
The transplant artists have been in Gainesville performing with local musicians for several months now, and they released their first album 
in September.
The self-titled collection of a doz-
en retro-electro pop tunes brings a 
unique dimension to the Gainesville 
music scene that has been recog-
nized from Atlanta to New Orleans to Dallas.
The band’s signature mix of in-
strumentals, ethereal vocals and 
heavy doses of synthetic embellish-
ment led Polack to the descriptor “laser gun pop.”
“The idea emerged from, like, 
really having a sound with some weirdness in it. Even if the song-writing is classic in a way, we like adding those touches of originality 
and craziness,” Davis said.
Making music was always in the 
cards for Davis and Polack, who 
recall growing up in deeply musi-
cal families. Davis’ father, a Berk-
lee College of Music alumnus  and French Jazz musician, instilled in his daughter a fierce love of jazz. High school, where Davis and Po-
lack met, introduced the duo to 
their love of pop.
In previous bands, Davis and 
Polack stuck to a more traditional 
style, but with Pearl and the Oys-
ters, the duo uncovered a way to combine the diversity of their mu-sical passions into something cohe-sive and individual.
“People like that. We like that,” 
Davis said.
 “We decided, let’s be true to 
what we actually like because peo-
ple respond more to honesty, I feel,” 
Polack said. “Even if it’s a weird project, they can tell that we’re ac-tually into it.”The influence of both jazz and 
pop thrives in songs like “My Baby Grand” and “Melinda Melinda,” along with the spirit of early elec-tronic music from the ’60s, particu-larly in “Lake Alice,” Pearl and the 
Oysters’ homage to the Gainesville 
landmark.
In fact, much of the album was 
inspired by Davis and Polack’s 
move to Florida and the romantic 
reputation of the Sunshine State.
“The animals, the nature, good 
weather all year long — it’s some-thing that is so exotic for us,” Davis 
said.
“It hasn’t lost the magic that it 
had when we first moved here,” Po-
lack said.
As for Tuesday night’s show, the 
night of explorative pop begins at 8:30 p.m., with doors opening at 8 p.m. Tickets for the show can be purchased in advance for $17 on 
ticketfly.com or $20 on the day of 
the show.Of Montreal to perform at High Dive
MUSIC
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
For many, the Florida holi-
day season is incomplete without 
Christmas music at Publix, spiked eggnog, light-adorned palm trees, 
Pillsbury snowman cookies (you 
know the ones) and the opportu-nity to sweat mid-day in the jacket and jeans you threw on that 60-de-gree morning.
If you miss associating cold 
weather with Santa Claus and Ha-nukkah Harry, you will be happy to know that Gainesville has a cold 
front coming this week. Unfortu-
nately, any true Floridian knows those never last.
To make December feel like it 
did before climate change brought 80-degree weather to New York City last Christmas, take advan-tage of the following activities Gainesville has to offer before the proverbial snow melts in the New 
Year.
Festival of Lights
For those looking for a nearby 
light display, the North Florida Re-gional Medical Center lit its duck pond for the 28th year in a row on Dec. 1, and the pond will remain lit after dark every day until January.
Another popular light show is 
located one hour away at Stephen 
Foster Folk Culture Center State 
Park in White Springs where guests can pay $3 Friday to Sunday or $2 Monday to Thursday to enter a lighted winter wonderland that features free hot cocoa, popcorn, 
marshmallow roasting, craft activi-
ties, snow ﬂ  urries and the big man himself — Santa Claus.
“The Play’s the Thing”While the Hippodrome State 
Theatre is presenting its 40th an-nual rendition of “A Christmas Carol” until Dec. 22, High Springs Playhouse is dedicating three weekends to its unique iteration of the classic Christmas ﬁ  lm “It’s A Wonderful Life,” until Dec. 17. The venue where the radio play will take place is only 30 minutes away, and tickets range from $11 to $16.
Timeless FavoritesDance Alive National Ballet will 
perform the “Nutcracker,” at 7:30 p.m. on Dec. 15 and 16 and Dec. 16 and 17 at 2 p.m at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets to see the Sugar Plum Fairy and the rest of the cast range from $15 to $45.
The Phillips Center will also be 
home to Danscompany on Dec. 9 at 1:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. for two bal-let performances of “Cinderella.” Though tickets are $15, children 
under 10 will be admitted free with 
a donation of a new unwrapped toy or book. The show will be in-terpreted in American Sign Lan-guage, and playgoers can meet the cast after the show.Engaging the SensesPerhaps the most modern holi-
day experience will take place every Saturday until Dec. 16 at Kika Silva Pla Planetarium, where the creators of “Music 360: Let It Snow,” have created a full-dome show featuring computer-gener-ated scenery and animation set to the music of the season. The 3 p.m. 
spectacle costs $5 for adults and se-
niors and $4 for children.
Season of Giving
Nothing conjures the holiday 
spirit more than giving back. Local domestic violence shelter Peaceful Paths has fulﬁ  lled all of its adopt-a-family and individual holiday wish lists this season, but its general hol-iday needs list is always in need of 
fulﬁ  llment. Go to peacefulpaths.org 
to see what items you can donate to victims who enter their emer-gency shelters.
In the same vein, Toys R Us is 
partnering with Toys for Tots until Dec. 15, where anyone can donate a new unwrapped toy to any Toys 
R Us or Babies R Us location that 
will go to a child whose parents cannot afford to buy them gifts for Christmas.
Lastly, Mattress Firm is accept-
ing unwrapped children’s gift do-nations to give to foster children, for whom the holidays is an espe-cially difﬁ  cult and lonely time. You 
can donate gifts to the Mattress 
Firm on Archer Road until Dec. 17. 
Five ways to celebrate the holidays in Gainesville 
Credit
“A Christmas Carol” at The Hippodrome is one of a handful of plays going on in Gainesville 
during the Christmas season. 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Of Montreal has hit many times in the past.Tickets are $17 in advance14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
PHYSICAL PLANT IS NOW
FacilitiesServices.ufl.eduWE’RE MOVING UF FORWARD,  
WITH EVERY STEP YOU TAKE.
From hurricane recovery to campus beautification efforts, Facilities Services is committed to getting Gators where they need to go, and making sure  they enjoy spectacular scenery  at every turn.A top ten campus needs plenty of work gloves and green thumbs. BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils 
& internet incl. Grad student preferred. 
Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-25-18-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14WANTED: Personal Assistant for very suc-cessful Entrepreneur. $20/hr. Must have vibrant personality, be in great physical shape, enjoys sporting events. Office sup-port; computer &amp; plan social functions; light house work/errands; some travel. Email resume & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com    1-8-18-6-14
RGIS, LLCHiring NOW!
Inventory Associates• Starting: $9.00• Flexible p/t work• Promotion opportunities• Regular wage reviews• Grp health plan after 90 days• Equal Opportunity EmployerStart your career today!Apply @: www.rgis.comJob #: PRE1511       1-8-18-6-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14
Weekdays after 2:30 pm. To help with 3 kids ages 8-15, with after school pickups and activities. $12/hr. Experience, references required. email: rosenson@ufl.edu.     12-6-17-3-14
WANTEDBartender & Barback Experienced, Reliable and ResponsibleDirty Bar, Gainesville FL(352) 373-1141     1-10-18-5-14Girls Place, Inc. Classroom CounselorsLooking for passionate & enthusiastic peoplePT M-F After SchoolApply online www.girlsplace.net     1-8-18-4-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Psychology Office looking for Spring 
Semester Volunteer Office Interns. Two 
full-day a week commitment. Credit may 
be available through UF psychology and 
English Departments. Excellent writing and 
communication skills important.
Send vita/resume with letter of interest to
info@cpancf.com
1-17-18-6-14
1. GEOGRAPHY: What was the 
former name of the country Burkina 
Faso?
2. MEDICAL: What common mala-
dy would you be suffering from if you had ephelides?
3. ASTRONOMY: Where is the 
SETI (Search for Extra-Terrestrial 
Intelligence) Institute located?
4. MOVIES: What country was the 
film “The Killing Fields” about?
5. LITERATURE: In what 20th-cen-
tury novel did the Gamekeeper Oliver Mellors appear?
6. MUSIC: Which 1960s-70s band 
was associated with brothers John and 
Tom Fogerty?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What type of 
liquor drink is Courvoisier?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent popularized the phrase “the buck stops here”?
9. U.S. STATES: Which of state’s 
nicknam is The Bay State?
10. MYTHOLOGY: What Greek 
goddess was believed to possess a uni-versal remedy?
Answers
1. Republic of Upper V olta2. Freckles3. Mountain View, California
4. Cambodia
5. “Lady Chatterley’s Lover”6. Creedence Clearwater Revival7. Cognac8. Harry Truman9. Massachusetts10. Panacea
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
December 4, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Designated drivers are the greatest
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDAffordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
Reduce Your Student Loans & Obtain Financial Freedom!  Join Our Affiliate Program At ConversionPros and Get Paid on 3 Levels! Unlimited Potential!  See Exciting Details at http://ernie187.recruitlikeamachine.com/partner    1-8-18-5-15
ACROSS
1 Rope often coiled
6 __ Lanka
9 Selassie of
Ethiopia
14 “One more time!”
15 See 16-Across16 With 15-Across,
cochlea site
17 *Intricate feature
of some Victoriangardens
19 Anglican leader20 Rainbow hue
21 Eye part that may
become
detached
22 What circled R’s
may indicate:
Abbr.
24 *Politician for
whom a Virginia
university isnamed
26 Point of giving up28 Quarterback
Manning
29 Sinusitis-treating
MD
30 Nepal’s continent31 Swig or sip33 *Disney miser
who swims in hismoney
39 Clock radio
feature
40 Valley
42 Word after black
or photo
45 Nike’s __-FIT
fabric
46 Guarantees
49 *Game to settle a
score
52 Badminton court
divider
53 President after
Jimmy
54 “Bob’s Burgers”
daughter
56 Emcee’s opening
57 Diamond in the
rough ... or a
literal feature ofeach answer to astarred clue
60 Give direction to61 Salinger’s
“Franny __Zooey”
62 Tender beef cuts63 Frost-covered64 “Certainly!”
65 Lived
DOWN
1 __-di-dah:
pretentious
2 Number on many
a birthday card
3 Extremely cruel
4 Communicate
with a deafperson
5 Antsy6 Neptune, for one
7 Shaving device
8 Boiling blood
9 Collective
intelligence
10 Baker with
Grammys
11 Cut into
12 Use for support
13 Knight-__18 Demeanor21 Artifact22 Bankrupt airline23 Battleship call25 Microbe27 Poet Teasdale31 Obama, e.g.:
Abbr.
32 African antelope34 The Stars and
Stripes35 Rowed
36 Dreadful
37 Manhattan
concert hall
38 Bauhaus artist
Paul
41 Superlative suffix42 Like Shrek43 “ASAP!”44 Beverage
brewed outdoors
46 Not seeing eye to
eye47 Gulf War 
missile
48 Lancer’s
protection
50 Challenger51 Flared skirt55 It may come
down in winter
57 Stable serving58 Photo blowup:
Abbr.
59 Salt Lake City
hrs.
By Neville Fogarty©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/06/1712/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, December 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Place that can
precede the starts
of 20-, 30-, 36-,
46- and 52-Across
5 Spanish red wine
10 Office fill-in
14 Yours, in Tours
15 Sign up, in
Sussex
16 Jai __
17 The Volunteer St.18 Putting the
squeeze on
20 *Company that
maintains
network
messages
22 Bygone Toyotas25 Lets up
29 ’60s United
Nations secretary
general
30 *Apple music
player
33 Beauty at a ball34 Ivan the Terrible,
e.g.
35 Crime family
leader
36 *Springsteen’s
ensemble
40 “Mazel __!”
42 Take a chance
43 Soft leather46 *“My stars!”49 Counterbalance50 Instruments for
Yo-Yo Ma
51 Traveled like
Huck Finn
52 *Willa Cather
novel set in
Nebraska
57 Arms-around-
knees swimming
pool jump
60 Gillette brand64 Curved molding65 Written reminders66 Worker finishing
an éclair
67 Invasive plant68 Terse summons
from the boss
69 Bird that can
precede the startsof 20-, 30-, 36-,46- and 52-Across
DOWN
1 __ Tuesday:
Mardi Gras
2 Chowed down3 Potter pal
Weasley4 Necessary
nutrients
5 Meal6 Cross inscription7 Baseball analyst
Hershiser
8 Kid around
9 “Not to 
mention ... ”
10 Kilt pattern
11 Inventor Whitney
12 Superhero suffix
13 Animal that can
precede the startsof 20-, 30-, 36-,
46- and 52-
Across
19 Employed
21 Painter …douard22 Long sandwich23 Versatile vehicle,
for short
24 Soil acidity
measure
26 Most mournful
27 Eclectic musician
Brian
28 Prince, to a king
30 Grenoble’s river31 Liver spread32 Heavenly body34 Drop of sadness37 Old cereal box
no.
38 To the same
extent39 Informal “No more
talk”
40 Twitch
41 Poetic tribute
44 Low grade
45 Itinerary approx.47 Copied
genetically
48 Fat-reducing
procedure, briefly
49 Words ending a
threat
53 Quaint lodgings
54 Bassoon kin55 Basketball Hall of
Famer Archibald
56 Grade sch. level
57 Animal that can
precede the startsof 20-, 30-, 36-,46- and 52-Across
58 Single-malt datum59 Family tree word61 Longhorn State
sch.
62 DVR button
63 Genesis craft
By Kurt Krauss©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/05/1712/05/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, December 5, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Respect
1.  Person who fishes5.  Zeal
2.  Type of cosmetic 6.  Bad
3.  Party crowd7.  ____ bread
4.  Slanted typeface MREAID
NGARELTOUGS
LUAFW
AARMACS
FLORUOMCLARIG
LACITIANSWERS: 1A-Admire  5A-Gusto  6A-Awful  7A-Garlic
1D-Angler  2D-Mascara  3D-Roomful  4D-Italic  B-Guatemala12-6-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The territory of modern ____ once formed 
the core of the Mayan civilization.
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Coach Mary Wise has led 
the Florida volleyball team to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA T ournament. UF hasn't made the Final Four since 2003. Read the story, pg. 19.Former UF interim coach joins UCF; FSU finds a coach
Randy Shannon, who started the season as Florida's defensive coordinator 
before being promoted to interim head coach, was hired to be UCF's defensive coordinator on Tuesday. A few hours away in T allahassee, the Seminoles hired Oregon's Willie T aggart as their new head coach.  Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
UF PLAYS LOYOLA 
CHICAGO TONIGHT AT 
8 IN THE O'DOME AND 
ON SEC NETWORK.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Mike White sat silently 
in front of reporters Monday 
night, ruminating in disap-
pointment. 
Hours earlier, the UF men’s 
basketball coach had empha-
sized four key areas his team needed to succeed in if the Gators were going to beat Flor-
ida State: transition defense, 
limiting turnovers, rebound-ing and defending the pick and roll. 
Florida fell short in the first 
three aspects, leading to an 83-66 home loss. 
“Three F’s and an A,” White 
said. “Not a very good grade-
point average.”
No. 5 Florida (5-2) has a 
chance to get back on track to-
night at 8 when it hosts Loyola Chicago in the O’Connell Cen-ter.
White said the FSU game 
didn't surprise him or his staff.
The same issues Florida 
had against FSU, it had against 
New Hampshire on Nov. 19. 
The Gators had trouble lim-iting points in the paint and points off turnovers. And in both games, UF had no answer 
for its opponent’s top player. Despite Florida’s defensive struggles, it barely pulled out 
a win against New Hampshire. It wasn’t so lucky against FSU.
“This just happened to be a 
higher level, more talented ver-
sion,” White said. “We’ve got 
to become way better on the defensive glass and defensive transition.”
White believes Florida 
needs to improve vastly on defense,  and tonight’s game against Loyola Chicago gives his team an opportunity. 
The Ramblers (8-1) are off 
to their best start since 1965-66 and are looking for their first win over a ranked opponent 
since 2009.
Senior forward Aundre Jack-
son leads the team in points 
per game (13.8) and field-goal percentage (.667), redshirt 
junior guard Clayton Custer 
leads in assists per game (4.3) and senior guard Donte Ingram is averaging a team-high 6.9 re-
bounds per game.
While the Ramblers are on 
a roll, the Gators present a test 
as their only ranked opponent on the schedule. 
White knows his team 
can’t overlook Loyola Chicago though, especially after the way it played on Monday.
“If we don’t learn from 
(Monday), then shame on us,” White said.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgAfter being bullied by FSU, Gators can bounce back tonight
Alligator File Photo
Florida men's basketball coach Mike White wants to see improved defense from UF tonight against Loyola Chicago 
following a 17-point loss to Florida State on Monday. "If we don't learn from (Monday), then shame on us, " he said.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
UF HOSTS OSU 
TODAY AT 5:30 P .M. 
ON SEC NETWORK +.
By Morgan McMullen 
Sports Writer
On Sunday night, the Gators (5-
3) celebrated their second road win 
of the year the same way as their 
first. 
Ice cream for the team. 
The sweet treat may be the most 
consistent aspect of Florida’s three-game winning streak when you consider how varied the team’s path to victory has been. 
In a 10-point victory against 
Jacksonville on Nov. 28, the Gators scored a season-high 36 points in the paint, but hit a season-low six 
shots from beyond the arc.
Against Oklahoma five days 
later, they took the opposite ap-
proach. UF totaled just 18 points in the paint — its second-lowest total 
of the year — and made 12 three-
pointers on its way to a 19-point win. 
“You have to morph into what-
ever the defense is giving you or 
forcing you to try to do that night,” 
coach Cameron Newbauer said after the Jacksonville game. “You have to capitalize on that.”
Florida may need a presence both 
inside and out when it hosts No. 12 Ohio State (8-2) today at 5:30 p.m. The Buckeyes come into Gainesville having won seven of their previous 
eight games and boast the leading 
scorer in Division I, Kelsey Mitchell. Mitchell, a 5-foot-8 guard, is 
averaging 25.7 points per game. A majority of her work comes from 
behind the three-point line, where 
she averages 10.5 shots per game.
In the paint, the Buckeyes fea-
ture forward Stephanie Mavunga, 
who’s averaging 12.2 rebounds per 
game, good for ninth in Division I. Mavunga’s defense doesn’t end with rebounding — the 6-foot-3 forward blocks just over two shots 
per game. 
Florida guard Dyandria Ander-son, who set a new career high 
in points against Oklahoma, said while she and her teammates en-
joyed arguably their best win of the 
season, they need to retain the les-sons learned from it.
“We can’t just forget about 
them," Anderson said.  
A video from FloridaGators.com 
contributed to this report. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.org Gators look to win fourth in a row today against Ohio StateWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Just ﬁ  ve days from Christmas 2003, the 
Gators volleyball team was in Dallas, hop-
ing to win its ﬁ  rst national title and avenge its only loss of the season against undefeated 
Southern California.
But it didn’t, and UF coach Mary Wise’s 
record in the NCAA championship match 
dropped to 0-1.
Florida hasn’t made it to the Final Four 
since.
This year, a 27-1 Gators team — the No. 2 
overall seed in the NCAA Tournament’s ﬁ  eld of 64 — has a chance to make history. A win 
in Friday’s Sweet 16 matchup against UCLA 
would put them one win away from breaking 
the 14-year drought.
“We want to go to the Final Four,” senior 
Rhamat Alhassan said after Florida’s ﬁ  rst-
round win over Alabama State on Thursday. “We want to win a national championship. 
But in order to do that, we have to take the 
small steps.”
Florida is 10-1 against NCAA Tournament 
teams this year and has the tools to compete 
for a championship: star power (ﬁ  ve All-SEC selections), an elite defense, senior leadership and a future Hall of Famer for a coach in Wise.
Wise recently earned her 900th career win 
as a head coach, padding her lead over all other female Division I coaches.
While Florida’s volleyball players have 
ample respect for their coach, often referring 
to her as a role model or mother ﬁ  gure, Wise 
is quick to parry the credit back to them.
“This program’s success is a reﬂ  ection of 
the talent that’s come through it,” Wise said.
The Gators can continue that success Fri-
day at home against the 15th-seeded Bruins (21-10).
Thanks to its No. 2 seed, Florida is a host 
school, meaning that if it continues to win, 
it will play on its home court up to the Final 
Four.
Should UF beat UCLA in the regional semi-
ﬁ  nals on Friday, it would play No. 7 Min-nesota or No. 10 Southern California in the Regional Finals on Saturday. The tournament 
will conclude with the Final Four on Dec. 14 and national championship on Dec. 16 in Kan-
sas City, Missouri.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgI had my ﬁ  rst panic attack during 
my junior year of high school.
At the time, it was scary. I 
was nervous. I couldn’t breathe. 
I ran to the bathroom and tried 
to calm myself down, but my heart 
was beating fast and my mind was 
racing and I knew I was about to be sick.
That year was a bad one. I met 
with a psychologist who diagnosed me with an anxiety disorder. I had many more 
panic attacks over the next two years, usually in 
public speaking situations. I became depressed.
And then I received a piece of simple ad-
vice that both terriﬁ  ed me and reassured me at the same time: Until I conquered my fears, they would always be my fears. I had to address my 
problem head-on in order to get past it. 
So, in my ﬁ  rst year of college, I joined the 
Alligator. 
Here, I was forced to speak. I had to interview 
athletes, usually in front of many other reporters. 
I had to walk up to people I had never met before 
and introduce myself and ask questions. I had to 
make phone calls and think quickly and impro-vise and react. 
It sounds silly now, but it was difﬁ  cult at the 
time. Looking back, four years later, I realize that my panic attacks helped shape who I am. 
I haven’t had one since my senior year of high 
school, and while I might get slightly nervous be-fore an important interview, it’s always a good 
type of nervous. An excited nervous. A healthy 
nervous.
And I owe it to the Alligator. For me, the 
Alligator was my home away from home. And it can be one for you, too. 
Don’t believe me? Apply. You’ll see. You’ll see 
that you grow here. You learn here. You change as a person here. You ﬁ  nd a group of people who share your same interests, who are smart as hell, 
and you do journalism with them every day of 
the week.  
You travel for 13 hours in a car with them. Both ways. You spend Saturdays in a press box with them. You dis-
cover new cities with them. You 
spend long nights through the 12th inning of a doubleheader at McK-
ethan Stadium with them. You learn 
that Jack’s Bar-B-Que in Nashville is a must-visit and that Kentucky has 
a tree stump that’s 230 million years 
old and that Tennessee’s Pat Sum-mitt statue looks pretty cool up close 
and that the best way to spend 30 minutes in New Orleans is by waiting in line for a beignet. 
You learn. You teach. You learn, because you 
teach. You realize that good writing is hard and good reporting is hard and that it feels so damn good when you get it right. You strive for that. 
You strive for that with a group of students who 
are striving for the same thing. You make each other better. You learn.
Sometimes I feel like I didn’t go to college at 
Florida, but that I went to college at the Alligator. And I truly feel that way. Not just because I spent 
much more of my time here (which I did), and 
not just because working late nights with some of my best friends was way too much fun (it was), 
but because the Alligator gave me something no 
classroom — however interesting, immersive and relevantly educational (and trust me, at UF, there 
were plenty of those) — ever could. 
It gave me the real thing. Experience. 
So here’s to the Alligator. Here’s to the lives it 
has changed and the careers it has sprung.
Here’s to the difference it has made in my life. 
Here’s to student journalism. Here’s to its future.
Here’s to all the people who have worked 
to make it special and all the ones who are still here, working, stressing, laughing, crying and 
succeeding.
Here’s to that nervous freshman four years 
ago, unsure what the future would look like. 
I’m excited to see what comes next.
 Ian Cohen was a writer and sports editor for the 
Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @icohenb.Working at the Alligator has changed 
my life. It can change yours, too.Goodbye Column 
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbI’m not very skilled 
at basketball. I can’t shoot. I can barely drib-
ble. And being short 
enough to order off a 
kids’ menu doesn’t help.
But I’m great at defense. 
Because, at least in pickup basketball, defense isn’t a measure of how talented you are. It’s a measure of how hard you’re willing to try.
Being a journalist is like playing 
defense. Innate talent plays an insigniﬁ  cant role.
That’s something I’ve learned in 
two and a half years of working for alligatorSports. There are some great 
writers and reporters who have worked 
in this cramped ofﬁ  ce space — Ethan Bauer, Ian Cohen, Jordan McPherson, Graham Hall and Dylan Dixon are a few. But none of them, myself included, 
have any talent. Don’t believe me? Look 
at their ﬁ  rst stories on the website. 
Cringeworthy clunkiness all around.
But all of them were so bothered 
by those stories that they were driven 
to make up for them. Now, they write 
moving articles with artful execution. Reading their stories makes me feel like a kid on Christmas morning, not just be-cause they’re gripping and well-worded 
and informative and everything a story 
should be. But because they’re a testa-ment to an undeterred will to improve. “Relentless effort,” as Florida football coach Dan Mullen would say.
For example, in my ﬁ  rst interview 
as a sports writer, I had no idea what to ask. I sat down across from then-UF golfer Sam Horsﬁ  eld and stuttered and rambled and hoped he understood what I was asking — he didn’t. I don’t 
blame him. Why would anything I say 
make sense? Knowing what to ask isn’t something you’re born with like strength, size or speed. It can only be learned. So 
I tried to learn. My second 
interview wasn’t much bet-ter. Neither was my ﬁ  fth. By now, I’ve conducted hun-dreds of interviews. Am I “good” at them? No. Have I failed enough to know what not to do? For the most part.
At some level, it’s not a surprise. Peo-
ple get better at what they do over time. But that’s not my point. You can spend 10 years as a writer and never improve if you’re just looking forward to typing that last word and emphatically shutting 
your laptop. You can’t rely on experi-
ence to win you that Pulitzer. You’ve 
got to be active and aggressive in your 
approach. It doesn’t take skill to call 100 sources or rewrite a story that misses the mark. It takes effort, patience, and a willingness to be awkward — annoying interviewees by asking the same ques-tion if you don’t like their answer, hold-ing your phone a foot from their face to 
shoot a good video, calling your editor 
to admit a mistake.
To me, it’s not disheartening to 
accept that talent plays a small role in 
journalism. I ﬁ  nd it encouraging.  
The kid who ﬂ  unked English can be 
the next Bill Simmons. The star student can be a failure.
So after writing hundreds of stories 
about what’s wrong with UF, sports and 
the world, I want to go out with some 
good news: While a 10-foot rim may be out of your reach, success in storytelling isn’t — it’s just waiting for you to work for it. 
Matt Brannon was the Alligator's 
sports editor. Follow him on Twitter         
@MattB_727.Dear journalists, you have no talentGoodbye Column
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise (center) and the Florida volleyball team take the court Friday 
at 4 p.m. for a Sweet 16 matchup against UCLA in the O'Connell Center. 
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727
VOLLEYBALL
Gators chasing ﬁ  rst Final Four appearance since 200320   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2017
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barE 1728 West University Avenue
7 pm – 12am
2-4-1 Appetizers 
2-4-1 Classic 
Daiquiri’s  
(Fresh not Frozen)
Trivia 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$5 Flat Breads 
(Margherita or Buffalo Chicken)
$2 Premium 
Wells
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First Mag 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Buffalo Chicken or  
BBQ Pulled Pork)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail 
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseHAPPY HOUR
ALL DAY ON SUNDAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Premium 
Wells
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 Stoli Mules 
$4 First Mag  
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
BURGER NIGHT2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
BLOW-OUT
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
Door @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pmTH
restaurant & roo ftop barE
 a toast to 
Exclusive Champagne Toast on the Roof Presents
Early Bird Tickets starting at $49 |  8 - Midnight | search The Social@Midtown on eventbrite.com for tickets.Open    Bar
Full    Buffet
Featuring Prime Rib
7pm-12am
$3.99   
½ Pound Burger
$5 All  
Craft Pints
Make your graduation dinner reservation with us.
3501 SW 2nd Avenue   |   352.505.3595