We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 88 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
Florida hoops faces LSU tonight
White is hoping to turn things around, pg. 13
YMCA has one week to meet $1.2 million goal
The center will close if the money isn’t raised by Jan. 31, pg. 3
Man steals electronics, poisons pet snake
After breaking into a home, he dumped detergent in the 
snake’s tank, pg. 9FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
After members of the Jewish Stu-
dent Union spent nearly four hours 
Tuesday promoting Jewish Heritage Month, a man wearing a swastika armband rode his bicycle nearby, prompting outrage from students and members of the Jewish commu-nity.
Although the JSU members did 
not see the man approach Turling-ton Plaza — they were packing up to leave when the man was spotted by another student — Jackie Bontjes, JSU’s vice president of program-ming, said she felt scared.
“When I saw it I was immediately 
very thankful that I wasn’t out there tabling, because I don’t know what would’ve happened if we were still out there,” she said.
Video and photos of the man standing on Turlington Plaza and riding his bicycle circulated on Face-book throughout the day, eliciting 
some comments that condemned the 
symbol and others that defended the man’s right to uncensored expres-sion.
UF spokesperson John Hines is-
sued an emailed statement, noting that while the First Amendment pro-tects personal political expression, UF doesn’t encourage hate on its campus.
“However, it is critical to recog-
nize that swastikas are symbols as-
sociated with the Holocaust which 
exterminated six million Jews as well as multitudes of individuals from other persecuted groups on the basis of their race or religion,” the statement read. “The University of Florida encourages inclusion and 
 Man wearing swastika armband at UF prompts outcry
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
NOW HIRING 
The ﬁ  rst Career Showcase in the newly renovated Stephen C. O’Connell Center drew in many students 
on Tuesday. More than 250 employers showed up for the event.
THE NEWBERRY 
COMMISSIONER MOCKED 
THE WOMEN’S MARCH.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
A Newberry city commission-
er is under ﬁ  re after he shared a 
meme on his personal Facebook page mocking the women’s march-es that took place across the coun-
try Saturday.
The meme, which depicted 
two female protesters, said “Don-
ald Trump got more fat women walking in one day than Michelle Obama did in eight years.”
Commissioner Ricky Coleman, 
who shared the post Sunday eve-ning, said Tuesday he was exer-
cising his First Amendment rights 
and understood the photo took “a conservative side.”
In the days following Coleman’s 
post, more than 90 Facebook com-ments, both criticizing and sup-porting his message, were written.
“I just thought it was funny and I forwarded it. That’s just as cut and dry as it could be buddy — I mean sister,” Coleman said, defending himself. “I didn’t even make a comment on it.”
As of press time, Coleman’s 
account appears to have been de-leted.
Jeremiah Tattersall, union li-
aison for the Alachua County La-bor Coalition and volunteer for Gainesville: City of Resistance, said Coleman is deﬂ  ecting attention from the message of the marches.
“This is literally the largest pro-
test in U.S. history,” the 30-year-old said. “The fact that he needs to belittle it by fat shaming and making fun of women just shows how insecure he is in how much opposition there is to Trump and his agenda.”
Tattersall said while Coleman 
has the right to say or share what-
ever he wants, he should be held 
to a higher standard as an elected ofﬁ  cial.
“He’s allowed to post whatever  City commissioner 
under ﬁ  re for meme
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
One phone call to UF Health 
Shands Hospital on Tuesday re-
sulted in an evacuation of the food court, University Police said.
UPD spokesperson Maj. Brad Barber said police were told a bomb threat was made at about 10:45 a.m. The unknown caller said there was a bomb near the Wendy’s and Chick-ﬁ  l-A in the food court. Police were unable to trace the call.
Patients, visitors and staff were told to leave the ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor food court area and surrounding hall-ways of the north campus hospi-tal, Rossana Passaniti, a Shands spokesperson, wrote in an email.
“Out of an abundance of cau-
tion, this morning we temporarily evacuated and secured the ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor food court area of UF Health Shands Hospital,” Passaniti said.
Although it is unknown how 
many people were evacuated, she said the food court is typically busy during that time.
The food court was reopened at 
about 11:30 a.m. after police dogs and UF Health Shands Security cleared the area.
The most recent bomb threat 
on campus was a handwritten note left in the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor women’s bathroom in the New Engineering Building on Nov. 16, according to Alligator archives. 
The investigation into who 
made the bomb threat to Shands is still ongoing, Barber said. There is no further threat to the hospital.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
 UPD investigating after bomb threat made at Shands SEE MEME,  PAGE 4SEE SWASTIKA,  PAGE 4
 An evacuation lasted about 45 minutesJewish oicials condemned symbolSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 88
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AM PMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
RUB Entertainment presents: 
Fahim Anwar
Fahim Anwar will be perform-ing stand-up comedy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Friday from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Anwar is a comedian with mul-tiple characters up his sleeve. He just wrapped season five of “Guy Code” for MTV, and his re-cent film and TV credits include “Neighbors,” “Kirstie,” “Rizzoli & Isles,” “New Girl,” “Chuck” and “Fun House.” You can see 
Anwar in Tina Fey’s war com-
edy film, based on Kim Barker’s memoir, “Whiskey Tango Foxtrot,” which was released in March 2016. Currently, Fahim is working on his own one-hour special and performs for sold-out comedy clubs across the coun-try.
GatorNights: Global GatorNights
Pack your bags and grab a passport. GatorNights is taking you around the world Friday. Discover your own flavor of rhythm with dance lessons from UF’s Salsa Club or express yourself with a custom henna 
tattoo. Book your trip over to 
origami tutorials and make a paper lantern as your trip souve-nir. Learn introductory phrases in various world languages at the world language exchange in Orange & Brew from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Visit nine different countries while playing a game 
of Around the World Mini-Golf. 
Grab a seat in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for a comedy set by Fahim Anwar of MTV’s “Guy Code” from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Fly on over to the Reitz Union Auditorium to catch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of the featured film for this week, 
“Moana.” GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” from Friday to Sunday and Feb. 3 to Feb. 5 in Constans Theatre. This new play by Canadian playwright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the 
story of Talbot and Michaud, 
two Quebec City seminarians from opposing social classes with conflicting ideas about life, religion and art. Tickets for the production are $18 for the gener-al public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. For more 
information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Gay Movie Night — Tab Hunter 
Confidential
At 7:30 p.m. on the last Friday of every month, the Pride Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St., hosts Gay Movie Night, which is a free 
service of the Pride Community 
Center. This Friday, the movie “Tab Hunter Confidential” will be shown. It is a documentary about the real Tab Hunter as he shares the whole story of a happy and healthy survivor of Hollywood’s roller coaster. A $2 donation is requested to 
help cover cost of snacks. Visit 
their Facebook page at facebook.com/135747915702/
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career ExpoThe annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. Feb. 8 in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers representing the food, fiber, natural resources and life sciences sectors will be in atten-dance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent employment as well as representatives of gradu-
ate programs and professional 
schools. All students are encour-aged to attend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. CALS will host walk-in resume reviews in preparation for the event from 9 a.m. to noon Monday in McCarty Hall D, Room 2025. For more information, visit cals.ufl.
edu.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show 
Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with assis-tance from Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in 
Medicine, is producing an em-
powerment art show and per-formance art showcase for the semi-annual anti-violence arts festival "Red Soul Days." The show will be Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, lo-cated at 2117 NW 6th St. Artists and performers of all styles are 
welcome to submit work that 
evokes themes of recovery, heal-ing from trauma, self-discovery and love. A public display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! between 12 p.m. and 6 p.m. Feb. 10 and 11. There will be a range of arts workshops and art-making opportunities such as a public canvas and storytell-ing exercises. All couples are welcome to participate. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or 
for information.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge 
On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in 
the Swamp 2017. During the 
event, Spring Break tips, infor-mation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited quantities available), will be fea-tured. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register 
yourself or a team, visit shcc.
ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-design-challenge no later than Monday.
352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunityThe UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to 
join a 60-hour apprenticeship 
to work with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3Learn some strategies about communicating affirmative consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more in-formation or to request material, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or 
contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@
ufsa.ufl.edu.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  80° LOW  63°NOONWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
TURNING THE PAGE
The Alligator Stands Tall
Join former Editors-in-Chief Jason Brown and 
Trey Csar alongside then-Chief News Editor 
Matthew Boedy, Ph.D., for this webinar looking 
back at The Alligator’s fight against the Family Protection Act and how the student newspaper became the sole news organization to challenge the case to the highest court in the land under legal counsel of Thomas Julin, First Amendment attorney and former editor of The Alligator.
- Learn more about events that inspired the 
newsroom to challenge the law and argue its constitutionality.
- Hear firsthand accounts of how staff faced 
threats, vandalism and lost revenue as it continued the battle even after other prominent news organizations dropped out.
- Revisit the newsroom atmosphere and discover 
how these experiences shaped students’ lives before and after graduation.
Wednesday, January 25 at 4  p.m.
freeconferencecall.com/wall/alligatoralumni
Dial-in: (515) 604-9588 Access Code: 815796
Ed Barber
Former General ManagerThomas Julin
First Amendment AttorneyMatthew Boedy
Former Chief News EditorTrey Csar
Former Editor-in-Chief
IF $350,000 IS NOT RAISED BY 
JAN. 31, ITS DOORS WILL 
CLOSE FOR GOOD.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The North Central Florida YMCA needs 
to raise about $350,000 in the next seven 
days to keep its doors open.
The chapter, located at 5201 NW 34th 
Blvd., has about $837,000 in pledges as of 
press time, but will close for good Jan. 31 
if it doesn’t have the $1.2 million needed to stay open, said John Bonacci, the CEO of North Central Florida’s YMCA.“I have followed up with ﬁ  ve or six large 
potential donors who are considering sup-porting us,” he said. “Hopefully we’ll have something back in the next couple of days.”
About $11,000 in donations were made 
at a fundraiser Saturday, where community members sold food and held an auction, car wash, yoga classes and a Zumba marathon, said Leslie Galloway, a longtime member 
of the YMCA. 
“I do feel very hopeful that we’ll keep 
the Y open,” she said.
If the YMCA can’t raise the money need-
ed to stay open, it’s possible that Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs will purchase the facilities, said Steve Phillips, the department’s director.Phillips said the department is interested 
in buying a recreational facility in North-west Gainesville.
“Long story short, we weren’t actively 
pursuing acquisition or not pursuing it, because at this point we really don’t know what projects we’ll be able to do,” he said.
In December, an anonymous donor 
pledged $600,000 to help save the organi-
zation, which has more than 5,000 mem-
bers, 82 part-time staff and seven full-time employees, according to Alligator archives.
After hearing the YMCA was in trouble, 
Galloway, 28, began the “NCF YMCA Ad-vocates” Facebook group, which has more than 200 members, to spread awareness about the chapter’s ﬁ  nancial struggle.Bonacci said the effort over the last 
month from the community is proof the building serves a special purpose.
Although members of Gainesville’s 
YMCA have shown an outpouring of sup-port and devotion during the ﬁ  nancial hard-ship, he said the fate of the facility now lies in the hands of potential donors.
“They’re putting their money where 
their heart is, even though they don’t have a lot to give in most cases,” Bonacci said of the YMCA members. “We really need a pil-lar of this community to ensure the future of the Y in Gainesville.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org 
 YMCA has one week to raise $1.2 million, save building4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
respect, not hate.”
In a separate statement Rabbi Berl 
Goldman and Chanie Goldman, co-
directors of the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Cen
-
ter, condemned the swastika as “the symbol of the Nazis, an expression of Anti-Semitism and hate.”
Rabbi Goldman said he received 
nonstop calls, texts and emails from 
“concerned students and parents” re
-
garding the incident. 
“We are responding to this and 
bringing it to your attention, not to 
scare or over alarm you, but to make you aware that this has happened and 
could happen again,” the statement 
read.
The statement, which included safety tips, said the man had been identified and is not a UF student or employee.
Avichaim Snyder, a Jewish UF stu
-
dent, said he was stunned when he saw the man on Turlington Plaza at about 1:30 p.m.
“But the more it dawned on me, 
the more I was getting very aggravat
-
ed that was happening,” the 20-year-old political science sophomore said. 
Snyder said a University Police 
officer stopped the man in front of Turlington Plaza and appeared to ask 
about his bicycle registration.
The officer and the man then 
shared a laugh before the man left, 
said Snyder, who was standing about five feet away during the exchange. He said the man’s armband was large enough for the officer to notice the swastika on it.“I would’ve preferred the cop to 
tell him to take off the swastika,” Sny
-
der said. “The fact that he let him go on his merry way without saying any
-
thing was just wrong.”
For Snyder, Tuesday was not the 
first day he has felt hatred because of his religion. 
Last year, while walking on Turl
-
ington Plaza wearing a star of David, about five students called him a dirty Jew and a Zionist pig, he said.
Snyder also saw someone dressed 
as Adolf Hitler for Halloween last year.
“It has happened before, and it will 
happen again, and I’m tired for not be
-
ing able to stand up for myself,” Sny -
der said.
Alligator Staff Writer Martin Vas-
solo and Contributing Writer Harrison O’Keeffee contributed to this report.SWASTIKA,  from pg.1The man was seen on Turlington
Courtesy to the Alligator
A man wearing a swastika on his armband is pictured near the 
Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday.
he wants,” Tattersall said. “He 
could post Nazi propaganda on 
there too, but it’s also every-
one else’s freedom of speech 
to challenge him on that.”
Coleman, however, de-
fended his actions, noting he 
isn’t anti-woman since he has females in his family.
“I have a wife, I have a 
daughter, I have all of these 
people in my life that are 
women, and I’m getting hate,” 
he said.
The post was defended by 
fellow Newberry City Commis-sioner Tim Marden, who owns Space Walk, an inflatable toy 
rental service in Gainesville.
“It’s just absolutely ridicu-lous,” Marden said. “He has 
the right to put what he wants 
on his private Facebook page.”
Marden said those opposed 
to the post are trying to pub-
licly shame Coleman by hiding 
behind their keyboards.
“Last time I checked it was 
still a free country,” he said.
On Tuesday morning, Bar-
bara Venkataraman, who par-ticipated in the march, emailed 
Marden about the comment 
and called for Coleman’s res-
ignation.
“I am truly appalled at 
Commissioner Coleman’s (Facebook) post mocking 
women. Not only is that un-
professional, it is horrifying 
that an elected official would 
stoop to such levels. I marched along with over 3 million other people throughout the world, 
including men and children, who believe that all people de-
serve respect and dignity and 
equal rights. Commissioner 
Coleman could learn a lot from 
them,” Venkataraman wrote.
She continued: “Since Mr. 
Coleman doesn’t respect wom-en, he cannot represent their 
interests and he should imme-
diately resign.”
In a response that was 
soon criticized online, Marden 
wrote: “He is allowed to have 
a private life correct? And may-
be you need to have a sense of 
humor snowflake.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgMEME,  from pg.1Another commissioner defended him  Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
JEWISH PRIDE
Spencer Comora, an 18-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, eats a cupcake on Turlington 
Plaza on Tuesday morning. Comora handed out cupcakes as part of Jewish Heritage Month in an 
effort to reach out and “spread awareness about Jewish culture. ”
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — President Don-
ald Trump moved swiftly Tuesday to ad-
vance the controversial Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines, signing ex-ecutive actions to aggressively overhaul 
America’s energy policy and deal a sharp 
blow to Barack Obama’s legacy on climate change.
Obama had personally halted the Key-
stone XL project, which was to bring oil from Canada to the U.S., and major protest demonstrations have frozen work on the Dakota pipeline. The 1,179-mile Keystone XL pipeline would run from Canada to 
Nebraska, where it would join other lines 
already leading to refineries along the Gulf Coast.
Trump, in his continuing effort to undo 
the past eight years of a Democratic presi-dent, invited the Keystone builder, Trans-Canada, to resubmit its application to the State Department for a presidential permit to construct and operate the pipeline. The company said it would reapply.
Obama halted the proposed pipeline in 
late 2015, declaring it would undercut U.S. efforts to clinch a global climate change 
deal that was a centerpiece of his environ-
mental agenda.
Trump also ordered the U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers to quickly review and approve construction and easement re-quests for the Dakota Access pipeline, a project that has led to major protests by American Indian groups and their support-ers.
“From now on we are going to start 
making pipelines in the United States,” Trump said from the Oval Office, where he also vowed to require the actual pipe for Keystone to be manufactured in America.
But environmental groups and Native 
American tribes who have fought both projects for years pledged to defy Trump.Trump to revive pipelinesTHE MAN IS IN STABLE 
CONDITION WITH 
LACERATIONS ON 
HIS LEGS.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF maintenance worker was 
operating a lawn mower when it fell and pinned him to the ground Tuesday. 
At about 10:39 a.m., Glenn 
Davis, a ground team’s member of the UF Physical Plant Division, was driving a lawn mower uphill across the road from Beaty Towers, when the vehicle started to slide backwards, said University Police spokesperson Maj. Brad Barber.
Davis, 37, fell back and was 
pinned underneath the lawn mow-
er, Barber said.
Haris Khan, an employee for 
the UF Department of Housing and 
Residence Education, said he saw the top of the lawn mower and by-standers while he was driving on Museum Road. He and another colleague got out of the car to see what happened.
“I heard a very loud scream, 
and I rushed towards it,” he said. “I saw the victim. He was in com-
plete agony.”
He said blood gushed from Da-
vis’ head. Khan, his co-worker, a 
police officer and another individ-ual helped to free Davis.
“They assisted him from getting 
out underneath the lawn mower,” Barber said
In the aftermath of the accident, 
UPD closed Museum Road for 20 minutes and Davis was taken to UF Health Shands Hospital with lacerations on both legs, said UF spokesperson John Hines.
Barber said police were grateful 
for all the help they received while freeing Davis.
“With good teamwork, we all 
pulled him out,” Khan said. UF worker pinned 
under lawn mowerWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
IT WAS THE FIRST SHOWCASE 
HELD IN THE NEW 
O’CONNELL CENTER.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
At Tuesday’s Career Showcase, some 
UF students and employers used their 
smartphones to navigate their way through the newly constructed O’Connell Center.
The event, which continues today from 
9 a.m. to 3 p.m., is the ﬁ  rst to be hosted in the renovated center. Last Fall, it was held in Southwest Recreation Center due to construction. Some participants used the app, called UF Career Services, which gives a layout of the center and gives the location and needs of employers. It’s free for stu-dents to download and will include more information from the center by the end of Spring, said Ja’Net Glover, the senior as-sociate director for Career Services. 
“We know change can be hard and 
challenging for all of us with coming into a renovated space,” Glover said. “That’s why we wanted to wait to launch the app.”
Kerri Nauth, a UF business graduate 
student, said a student told her about the app while she was waiting to meet employ-ers, so she downloaded it.
Nauth, 29, said she’s been to four other 
career showcases, and the app will be a useful addition in her quest to build rela-tionships with potential employers. How-ever, she said it was somewhat confusing to use.
“It’s not trustworthy,” Nauth said. “It’s 
not bad, maybe with more use I’ll know it more. It’s 10 times better than using the (directory).”
Glover said fewer students will attend 
the event this semester, compared to Fall, when about 100 more employers come to recruit.
“You would think it would be opposite 
because we have more students graduat-ing in the Spring than the Fall, but many companies take the opportunity to really engage campus (in the Fall),” she said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org At Career Showcase, new venue, new app 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A bill placing an amendment on the Spring bal-
lot caused contention in Student Senate on Tuesday.
Senator Zachariah Chou (Inﬁ  nity, Independent) 
objected to a bill that would students to vote on how 
Summer replacement senators are chosen. Current-ly, senators nominate someone for their replacement seat, but with the bill, the replacement and agenda committee will choose Summer senators. The bill passed 79-2, with only Chou and Senator Omarley Spence (District A, Impact) voting against it.
During debate, Chou and Senator Jake Niergarth 
(Lakeside, Impact) voiced their concerns. Niergarth ended up voting in favor of the bill.
The bill’s author, Senator Meaghan Hanley 
(Journalism-02, Impact), said the change would en-sure qualiﬁ  ed applicants ﬁ  ll replacement seats. 
Niergarth asked Hanley if the amendment would 
allow senators from a majority party to replace an independent or minority party senator. She said it could.
“I think it’s selling students short of the voice 
they voted for on election day,” Niergarth said.
Senate also approved two referendum questions, 
non-binding issues students vote on to gauge their opinions, for the Spring ballot. 
Students will vote whether they approve a fee 
to expand nighttime safety services. They’ll also be asked if they want block seating to continue at foot-ball games.Senators clash 
on proposed amendment 
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Trump ad-
ministration has instituted a media blackout 
at the Environmental Protection Agency 
and barred staff from awarding any new contracts or grants, part of a broader com-
munications clampdown within the execu-
tive branch.
The prohibitions came to light Tuesday 
as the agency moved to delay implementa-tion of at least 30 environmental rules ﬁ  nal-ized in the closing months of former Presi-
dent Barack Obama’s term, a potential ﬁ  rst step to seeking to kill the regulations.
A summary of the actions posted in 
the Federal Register includes a long list of regulations that include updated air pollu-
tion rulings for several states, renewable fuel standards and limits on the amount 
of formaldehyde that can leach from wood 
products. President Donald Trump signed a directive shortly after his inauguration Fri-
day ordering a “regulatory freeze pending 
review” for all federal agency rules that had been ﬁ  nalized that have not yet taken effect.
Emails sent to EPA staff and reviewed by 
The Associated Press also detailed speciﬁ  c prohibitions banning press releases, blog updates or posts to the agency’s social me-dia accounts.
The Trump administration has also or-
dered what it called a temporary suspension of all new business activities at the depart-
ment, including issuing task orders or work 
assignments to EPA contractors. The orders were expected to have a signiﬁ  cant and im-
mediate impact on EPA activities nation-
wide. EPA contracts with outside vendors for a wide array of services, from engineer-
ing and research science to janitorial sup-
plies.  Trump administration orders EPA 
contract freeze and media blackout The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Why hobbies are a fundamental human quality
It is a new year, which means there is 
more opportunity to create new habits. At this point in our lives, I ﬁ  nd it is difﬁ  cult 
to form, discover or practice hobbies. Yet 
I feel that practicing hobbies, or “hobby-
ing” (yes, I created a new word), is a funda-mental quality of what it means to be human. 
Monkeys don’t do yoga in their spare time; 
dogs don’t sit down with a block of wood and create something beautiful. Only humans do. Not only is having a hobby an important as-pect of being human, it is also a means of seeing the 
world in a new light. Hobbies deepen our experience of 
nature, of other people and of ourselves. 
I take my life as a testament to this fact. I grew up 
in a hunting and ﬁ  shing environment with my older 
brother — our father is an avid outdoorsman who has 
dedicated a large part of his life to, as we say, being in the woods. Some of my ﬁ  rst memories are of sitting with my dad in a tree stand before the sun rose, half-asleep after spending hours waiting for a rod to bend 
and for a ﬁ  sh to bite out in the deep ocean. Being raised 
in the outdoors gave me ample space and resources to reﬂ  ect and wrestle with my identity and sense of self. I’ll forever be grateful for those moments.
As time passed and my brother and I became more 
athletically involved, we lessened our time in the out-doors. My father and brother’s passion for hunting and ﬁ  shing slowly began to outpace mine, so I chose not to go as much as they did. All of this happened around my 
high-school days, when I resolved to spend most of my 
free time either in a book or on the couch, attempting to model what I pictured the life of a great and worthy intellectual looked like. I never lost my love for nature. 
But compared to my brother and father, I was simply 
not as enthusiastic about waking up at 5:30 a.m. on a  Saturday.I tell you all of this for a reason: over the 
last year or so, I have painfully begun to recognize how necessary having a hobby is 
in order to be happy and productive. Those 
years when I ﬂ  oated around in my free time aimlessly, without any sort of direction except what I felt like doing in the moment, I was 
not a truly happy person. I hardly ever did 
anything productive or worthwhile. The irony of free time is that if you give yourself no con-straints or limits as to how you will organize 
your time, you’ll feel more like a slave than anything 
else. We need something we can dedicate ourselves to.
And so, when my father pressed me to begin “hob-
bying” again, I took up photography. My girlfriend, an 
avid photographer, gave me a crash course, and she and 
I began to go on mini photo excursions. It has proven 
to be one of the best decisions I ever made. Capturing beautiful moments in nature, like a squirrel enjoying his acorn or the sun leaking its colors into the sky, has become an addiction. I can spend hours with my cam-
era, just roaming around my house back home or on a 
nature trail, looking for the intricacies of an insect or ﬂ  ower. Photography has shown me how detailed and complex our world truly is. It enriched my experience 
of life like few things could.
What I wish to communicate to you is that taking up 
a hobby, one that is sustainable and lifelong, is one of 
the great joys life can offer. I, because of my father’s persistence, found a lifelong hobby in photography that 
I am deeply passionate about. It has given me much joy. 
What could you ﬁ  nd if you started searching? 
Scott Stinson is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.On adding coding 
to kids’ curriculums
This past weekend UF hosted its third annual hack-athon, 
SwampHacks. More than 500 college students attended this event, not just from our campus, but from places all over Florida and Georgia. For those of you not familiar with what a hack-athon is, it goes a little something like 
this: You and three other students have a set amount of time (in this case it was 36 hours) to code something — literally any-thing. This sounds intimidating to those not familiar, but don’t be fooled. You don’t have to sit at your computer for 36 hours straight. There are workshops, activities and plenty of food. And, believe it or not, you don’t have to come in with any coding knowledge.
If you aren’t a computer science or some sort of engineering 
major, for instance, you probably read the word hack-athon and 
were instantly turned off.
But one of the best parts of the event is that mentors are avail-
able and ready to teach anyone who doesn’t know what they’re 
doing. Austin Brown, one of the coordinators of SwampHacks, estimates that a quarter of the participants had no prior coding knowledge. These events are a great way for people who don’t know much about computer science to dive right into coding. It’s a fun environment, built on teamwork and innovation, and there’s no pressure to turn into an expert overnight.
Hack-athons are a way to make computer science more acces-
sible on the outside, but the ﬁ  eld still has a long way to go. 
Even though computer science is one of the fastest growing 
ﬁ  elds in the job market, only a quarter of high schools across the country offer computer science courses, and out of these, a lot only focus on basic computer use. Roughly 18 percent of schools offer Advanced Placement computer science classes, but the de-mographic of students who take the class is incredibly skewed. AP computer science has the largest split between males and fe-
males taking the exam, with males making up about 81 percent 
and females making up 19 percent in 2013, according to Col-lege Board. Compare this to Calculus AB, with a 52 percent male and 48 percent female split. There were 11 states in 2013 where no black students took the computer science exam and 8 states where no Hispanic students took the exam. 
It’s important to remember that a lot of lower-income schools 
typically do not have a computer science curriculum, and those students have limited access to computers to begin with. Others 
might have no idea where to begin, or they believe that computer 
science is scary and too hard for them. 
Unlike physics, biology and chemistry which have been core 
components of high-school curriculum since the 1890s, computer science is still considered an elective. Entry-level computer sci-ence classes in college, sometimes the ﬁ  rst coding class a lot of students take, usually serves as the weed-out class for the major. This works for Chemistry 1 and Biology 1, where students come in with some knowledge from high-school courses, but this isn’t 
often the case for computer science. Some individuals persevere, 
but it’s a deterrent, and ultimately makes the ﬁ  eld seem inacces-sible to those who did not have the opportunity to start early. 
What the school system needs to do is make computer science 
as essential as biology, chemistry and math. We need to intro-duce computer science at a young age, the same way we intro-duce other sciences. We need to make the already existing space more accessible to those who are interested. And we’re getting there. Events like hack-athons create a fun environment for new 
coders. There are more and more easy-to-follow online tutorials 
about coding. People are even coding games and websites for kids to learn about coding — going full circle and passing on their knowledge to a generation that won’t be as restricted.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Open your eyes. You are on your 
back, staring at a ceiling you do not recognize. The smell of in-
cense ﬁ  lls the air. You hate in-
cense. A pungent smoke coils out 
of the slender brown stick’s glowing red tip and ﬂ  oats up toward the spinning fan. 
Your lip is bleeding. Your Tinder date likes 
it rough.
This was me a few days ago. After my 
long-term girlfriend and I broke up, it wasn’t long before I downloaded the app. 
Maybe a week, maybe less. There is some-
thing meditative about swiping left and right on total strangers. Their existence is reduced to little squares on a screen: a 
ﬂ  attering picture, a name, an age, maybe a 
job. I do this at night before I go to sleep, I do it in the morning when I am sitting on the toilet, I do it in my psychiatrist’s wait-ing room, I do in my car at red lights. 
The most satisfying thing about Tinder is the instant gratiﬁ  cation I get when matched with somebody I ﬁ  nd attractive. It’s a surge of ego 
that rushes to my head, making 
me feel faint with adrenaline. I know a lot of people who use Tinder for this feeling and this 
feeling alone. Unfortunately, I 
take it further.
The other night I met a girl 
I matched with on Tinder. I drove to her apartment at 10 p.m. on a weekday, I 
knocked on the door and was awkwardly 
greeted by her roommates. A dachshund named Irving started barking at me. When I bent down to pet him, he bit my hand.
“Irving doesn’t like boys,” her room-
mate said, snatching up the yowling dog. My date called me upstairs.
Her room on the third ﬂ  oor had mini-
mal decorations. Its white walls were dot-
ted with Christmas lights. There was a yellow oil panting over her bed 
and a large ﬂ  at-screen TV atop a dresser on the wall opposite the 
painting. No desk, no posters, 
no bookshelf. She put on “Sing Street,” and we talked over it. 
We went through the basic 
formalities for a while, questions like “what’s your major?” and “where are you from?” Then I 
kissed her on the mouth. After making out for a few minutes, my date proceeded to 
bite my lip hard. Then my neck. I pinned 
her down. We got naked. 
The sex was short-lived and uncomfort-
able. I didn’t know this person, and she was 
starting to look less like a girl and more like 
a gremlin every time I glanced at her.
I don’t mean to personally attack her. 
She was very hospitable and kind to me. There was no pressure here — it was my 
decision to get a Tinder, my decision to message her, my decision to drive to her 
apartment and ultimately my decision to have sex with her. Yet, I hated it. I hated 
every second of it. This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time 
I had sex with a stranger I met on Tinder and instantly felt icky about it either. So why do I do it?
This is by no means a condemnation of 
those who use Tinder. I can only speak for myself when it comes to casual sex. My problem is, I know I don’t want it, and yet I download the app and check it obsessively. 
I go on these dates with total strangers and 
have sex with them. I like to think these random hookups are fun and liberating be-fore they happen, but they always end up 
making me feel sad. I guess my Tinder use 
is just another self-destructive habit I want to kick, like drinking, smoking or watching pornography.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appear on Wednesdays.
Group mentality is the foundation 
of society. It is something we rare-ly scrutinize. We are born into a dozen groups based on our circum-
stances and will join a dozen more 
over our lifetime. Have you ever asked about 
the costs of membership?
In social terms, the beneﬁ  ts of groups are 
apparent: Clubs, schools and households cultivate communities of like-minded people who lend us a feeling of stability and belong-ing. Members rely on one another. You lend a hand when you are needed, and in ex-change you can call on others for assistance. This exchange of services is not only a so-cial agreement, but an economic one. When you join a gym, you agree to pay a fee in exchange for the use of equipment. In any social group, you do the same, though you may not be paying with money.
In political parties, the most valuable 
capital is ideological. Political parties ally based on common interests and construct a platform based on compromises about what goals to pursue. You gain the political clout of a party supporting something that resembles your way of think-ing, and in exchange you lend your support to the party’s plat-
form even where it differs from 
your ideals.
If you disagree with that last 
part, it’s for a good reason: You 
would prefer to advocate for a political party when it supports your interests and disagree when it does not. Some disagreement is essential: It allows a party to adjust for a change in its voter base. But a party must also suppress dissent where it threatens to create schisms, which weaken or destroy the party. This is why there is so little nuance around hot-button issues: If a two-party system can con-vince you that there are only two options, then whichever way you decide, you still lend your support to an established party.
The problem for many is that groups re-
quire a certain surrender of identity. Mem-bership in a group is like being a cell in a body. A body can do things that would be impossible for individual cells by coordinating and consolidating the efforts of its parts. In the process, however, individual cells become 
expendable. The only necessity for 
the body is its own survival.
The survival of a party depends 
only on the continued participa-
tion of most of its members. The dissent of a small group is in-consequential so long as enough 
members remain to advance the goals of the party. To remain vital members of their com-munity, and to continue to reap the beneﬁ  ts of membership, individuals are compelled to uphold the platform of the party even when it goes against their personal beliefs. This not only encourages us to ignore our own moral compasses, but also prevents the formation of new groups that better align with our in-terests. However, is the formation of new groups really the answer?
Unfortunately, in the current political 
environment, little can be done without the weight of a party. We may never be able to dismantle parties that no longer fully rep-resent the interests of any constituent, but what we can do is refuse to respect the party line.
We can work together with people who 
do not share all our views, and we can ﬁ  nd common interests across the most hard-fought lines. We can behave as individuals with all our myriad interests instead of cogs poorly ﬁ  tted in a machine that only helps us half the time.
Diversity doesn’t divide us. It allows us to 
ﬁ  nd common threads with everyone around us. Nothing obligates us to vote one side of the ballot. Nothing prevents us from work-ing alongside Democrats for workers’ rights and Republicans for individual freedoms. Nothing prevents us from devoting ourselves as wholeheartedly to safeguarding the envi-ronment as to stoking the ﬁ  res of industry. Nothing except the lines we draw.
David Billig is a UF linguistics masters 
student. His column appears on Wednes-
days.
How a relationship with Tinder can be a self-destructive obsession for some
The lines we draw: examining the inadvertent costs of a party systemColumn
Column
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
With one hand in a cast bound 
with orange and blue tape, Heather 
White used a mallet to pound a hole into the wall of the Career Resource Center.
On Tuesday, UF students and 
faculty celebrated the center’s up-
coming renovation when White, the center’s director, smashed the hole 
to break ground on the new space. 
After 20 years in the same area, 
construction for the expansion will begin in March, said Ja’Net Glover, senior associate director for Ca-
reer Services, located on the Reitz 
Union’s ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor.
About 50 attendees voted on 
chairs for the new space, which 
cost about $7 million and will last for nine to 11 months.
“It’s going to be inviting,” Glover 
said. “We’re going to have the op-
portunity to use more technology so that there are opportunities for students to study and engage in that 
way.”
The $7 million project is being 
funded with Capital Improvement 
Trust Funds, or student fees set 
aside for non-academic buildings, she said. Private donors also con-
tributed to the funding.
The construction will add 10,000 
square feet to the center above the Wells Fargo in the Reitz. It will have more study rooms, places to meet employers and conference spaces 
for career fairs, Glover said. In the 
meantime, the center will operate 
on the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz.
The center needed to expand to 
accommodate the 7,000 interviews held each year, she said.
Erica Eldayrie, 20, a career am-bassador with the center, thinks the renovations will help bring new stu-
dents into the center.
“I think right now one of our 
battles is people not knowing all 
our services, until it’s too late and they’re seniors and they’ve already 
had a job or whatever,” the UF 
criminology junior said. “So hope-
fully the renovation will kind of put us on the radar.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  Career Resource Center renovations to begin in March 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
COMPETING TO SAVE LIVES
Carly Whittaker, a 22-year-old UF biochemistry and economics senior, gives blood during LifeSouth’s bi-annual “What Colors Do You Bleed?” blood drive on Tuesday afternoon. Blood centers at UF and the University of Kentucky are competing to see who can draw the most donors the week before the UF vs. UK basketball game.
IT MAY TAKE SIX TO 
EIGHT MONTHS UNTIL 
CONSTRUCTION IS 
COMPLETE.
By Samantha Sontag
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a ﬁ  re destroyed Light-
nin’ Salvage Enterprises, Stephen 
“Satchel” Raye is starting to re-
build. 
Raye, owner of Satchel’s Piz-
za, located at 1800 NE 23rd Ave., said he’s met with an architect to 
plan the future of the outdoor bar and gift shop that was destroyed in a ﬁ  re Dec. 5.  
“We want to do something 
similar to what we did before, which is a gift shop and bar, mu-sic and a playground for kids,” he said. 
The cause of the ﬁ  re is still un-known, but the ﬁ  re marshal ruled out arson, he said. 
The rebuilding process could 
take anywhere between six to eight months to complete, Raye said. 
Eating at Satchel’s is the best 
support Gainesville residents can offer right now, Gordon said. She said she can’t wait until the shop returns with cool junk to show-case.
Local restaurants like First 
Magnitude Brewing Company, Crane Ramen and Sweetwater Or-ganic Coffee Company helped out 
after the ﬁ  re by offering meals 
and drinks, Raye said.  
Despite the loss, Raye said 
he’s staying positive.
“We won’t build it back the 
same, it’ll be different, but it’ll still be interesting,” he said.  Satchel’s Pizza begins 
plan for new shop  Renovations will cost about $7 millionWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
THE EX-BOYFRIEND 
SURVIVED TWO BULLET 
WOUNDS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was ar-
rested Monday in connection to a 
Christmas Day shooting targeting her ex-boyfriend.
Rici Reshel Coleman, 28, is 
accused of driving a male accom-plice to her ex-boyfriend’s house at 10:54 p.m. on Dec. 25, where the accomplice then shot the man twice, according to a police report. Coleman was identiﬁ  ed by police and arrested at about 5:15 p.m. on a charge of attempted murder and two counts of conspiring to commit murder. The accomplice’s name is being withheld due to the ongoing investigation, but he or she has been arrested outside Gainesville on unrelated charges, 
according to a GPD press release. 
Coleman and the man dated 
for two years. When the relation-
ship became strained, she visited his home multiple times, ﬂ  attened his car tires and struck him, ac-cording to the release.
She was so angry at the man 
that she complained about him to 
people hoping to get him arrested 
or ﬁ  red from his job, according to the release. She and the accom-plice made a plan to kill the man and one of his friends.
On the night of the shooting, the accomplice got out of Cole-man’s car and rattled the man’s gate. The man’s dogs began to bark, and the man then came out-side.
Using a .38-caliber handgun, 
the accomplice shot the man twice before Coleman and he drove off, according to the report.
Paramedics took the man to 
the hospital where he survived the bullet wounds after four sur-geries, according to the press re-lease.
Coleman was already in the 
Alachua County Jail on other charges. Her total bond is set at $590,000. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
 Arrest made in Christmas shooting
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was arrested Monday after 
police identiﬁ  ed him as responsible for poisoning a pet snake and bur-glarizing $4,500 worth of electronics, Gainesville Police said.
Ahmadric Ty’ree Stone, an 
18-year-old  Gainesville resident, is accused of stealing two TVs, a computer and a $1,000 check from a house on Southwest 42nd Street, in December, according to a police report.
Police said Stone also killed 
homeowner Roberto Lopez Jr.’s gar-
ter snake by pouring laundry deter-
gent into its tank.
Lopez told police he thought his 
roommate stole the items and killed his snake because he ﬁ  red him the day before, according to the report. He also suspected his roommate’s drug dealer.
That changed Sunday when  he 
saw his TV being carried into an apartment at Southern Pines Apart-ments and informed police, accord-
ing to the report.
The apartment owner, Debra 
Denese White, told police that Stone 
gave her the TV, according to the report. She also said he killed the snake.
Police found Stone’s left palm 
print on the TV, according to the re-port. They arrested him on charges 
of burglary, grand theft and animal 
cruelty. Authorities took him to Ala-chua County Jail, where he remains as of press time in lieu of a $12,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld Man kills snake with 
detergent, police sayAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
FLIER FUN
Simone Norman, a 19-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology sophomore and Alpha 
Epsilon Delta member, passes out fliers outside the Reitz Union on Tuesday afternoon. The fliers advertised AED’s open house, where interested students may learn more about the organization’s philanthropy and application process.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
When the UF football team lost 
to the University of Tennessee in 
September, Alan Levine swallowed his pride.
The Florida Board of Governors 
member — and a three-time UF graduate — had lost a bet to the mayor of Johnson City, Tennessee.
The wager? The loser had to sing 
the other’s ﬁ  ght song.
So on Thursday, Levine attended 
a Johnson City commission meet-ing, threw on an orange jersey and white hat and belted out “Rocky Top,” a song Tennessee fans love and Gator fans love to hate.
Levine said he had to print out 
the words to the song because he didn’t know them.
Tonight, when Levine rejoins his fellow board members, he said he expects them to make fun of him.
“I think this Florida Board of 
Governors meeting has the potential to be very painful for me,” Levine said.
The original bet was made the 
year before when UF won, and Da-vid Tomita, the Johnson City Mayor and Tennessee alumnus, sang the UF ﬁ  ght song, he said. 
“It is all in good fun,” Levine 
said. “A Gator always keeps his word.”
Next year, when the Tennessee 
Volunteers play the Gators at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, Levine and Tomita will each be hoping for two victories.
“It’s been a good, friendly wa-
ger for a few years,” Tomita said. 
“I hope Mr. Levine hasn’t sold his 
Tennessee gear yet.”  UF alumnus  loses bet, 
sings “Rocky Top”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-27-17-10-1
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-27-17-5-2
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
Queen Futon - like new
Beautiful hardwood frame and beach design 
cover. $225 - call 352-262-7706      1-27-
17-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Put a spell on
4 Organizes from
best to worst, say
9 Arizona landforms
14 Wrath15 Longtime “At the
Movies” co-host
16 One bit
17 Shake up
18 *“C’mon, loosen
up!”
20 Do penance
22 Certain string
musician’s need
23 *Place for lefts
and rights
26 “Star Wars”
extras
27 Word of passione28 Cheek
31 “Alas!”
34 Elementary bit37 Water nymph40 *Compromise43 Orchard trees44 “Ready are you?
What know youof ready?”speaker
45 Low in fat46 Supermodel
Banks
48 Gross50 PD alert52 *Market measure58 French president
Hollande
61 Sees red
62 *General
principle
65 Bygone muscle
car
66 Holiday visitor
67 “Science of
Logic” authorGeorg
68 Shy person’s
note?
69 Branch quarters70 Philadelphia pro71 “Major Crimes”
network
DOWN
1 Muslim veil2 Sister of Calliope3 Maker of
ColorQubeprinters
4 One-named
singer portrayedby JenniferLopez in a 1997film5 Japanese sash
6 Gun, as a V87 Roman fountain8 Spot9 Pony Express
concern
10 Vocalist James11 Plopped down
next to
12 Apportion13 Boatloads
19 Stack under a
tarp
21 “Close, but no
cigar”
24 Family nickname
25 Threadbare
29 Boy in “Star Wars”
prequel films
30 “I wish I could”
31 Bit of band gear32 Small snicker33 Sub filler35 “So THAT’s
what’s going on
here!”
36 First responder
38 It borders the Fla.
panhandle
39 Hideout41 Medit. country42 Big name in big
rigs
47 Dating from49 Cat dish tidbit50 Nasal spray brand51 Danish fruit53 Parishioner’s
pledge
54 Milo of
“Barbarella”
55 “Pay attention,
man!” ... and, in adifferent way,what the end ofeach answer to astarred cluerefers to56 John of The 
Red Piano Tour
57 Strikes
through
59 “Far out!”60 Stockholder’s
assets?
63 Trendy boot
brand
64 Blanc heard 
but not seen
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/25/1701/25/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 25, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. MOVIES: What was the last mov-
ie that Nancy Davis Reagan appeared 
in?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What desert 
exists in parts of California, Arizona and Mexico?
3. PROVERBS: Where should you 
“never look a gift horse”?
4. U.S. STATES: Which state is an 
anagram of the word “anime”?
5. LITERATURE: What was author 
Thomas Mann’s native country?
6. ANATOMY: How much of blood’s 
volume is made up of plasma?
7. RELIGION: Which religion’s 
places of worship are called “King-dom Halls”?
8. MEASUREMENTS: What is the 
base unit of mass in the metric system?
9. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is rep-
resented in the condition called “neo-phobia”?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which 
president began appearing on the half dollar coin in 1964?
Answers
1. “Crash Landing” (1958)2. Sonoran desert3. “In the mouth”4. Maine5. Germany6. 55 percent7. Jehovah’s Witnesses
8. The gram
9. The fear of anything new10. John F. Kennedy
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 23, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-
wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
Needed a stable & reliable person long termto sell & set up a wine tasting part time for $10/hr. Hours: Tues 3-4pm, Sat 11-5pm, Sun 12-4pm, Please call Mary for an interview this weekend & next week at 478-550-4140.    1-25-17-5-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: LAPTOP
In the downtown area. Contact 352-575-
5974 with detailed description.  1-25-3-25
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Post Card Marketing System "Secure a second income, not a second job" www.abminfo.com Referred by # 5784 P. Wilson     1-25-17-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
15 Services 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Elif Portakal is helping alleviate the fatigue of a depleted Florida women's basketball team. Read the story, pg. 15Florida softball ranked in preseason poll
The Gators were ranked as the No. 3 team in the nation, according to the D1 
Softball News Preseason T op-25 Poll released on Monday. Florida trails only 
Oklahoma and Florida State. By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
The Gators dropped two conference 
games back-to-back last week. And 
sluggish, ﬂ  accid second-half starts were the problem.
“I wish I had an answer,” UF coach 
Mike White told reporters on Tuesday. 
UF’s defense gave up 77 second-half 
points compared to just 48 in the ﬁ  rst 
half in losses to No. 23 South Carolina 
and Vanderbilt. 
Florida (14-5, 5-2 SEC) has even tried 
simulating halftimes during practice. “It hasn’t helped,” White said. 
“We’ve tried watching more ﬁ  lm at 
halftime — it hasn’t helped. 
“We’ve tried watching less ﬁ  lm at 
halftime — it hasn’t helped. 
“We’ve tried getting out there and 
doing shell defense to start the second half — that hasn’t helped. I don’t get it. I don’t understand.”
Second-half issues have nagged the 
Gators since the start of the season.
In Florida’s ﬁ  rst three losses, No. 3 
Gonzaga, No. 17 Duke and No. 6 Flor-ida State each shot above 55 percent from the ﬁ  eld in the second period. The issue has ﬂ  ared up again in UF’s 
two-game losing streak. 
Florida held the Commodores 
and Gamecocks to just 29.8-percent shooting in ﬁ  rst halves but allowed a combined 47.7 percent from the ﬁ  eld in second halves. 
“I’ve got to keep searching,” White 
said. “I haven’t found the answer.”
Florida will hope to sort out its de-
fensive second-half issues when the Gators play LSU (9-9, 1-6 SEC) tonight at 9 in Baton Rouge.  Gators can snap losing streak tonight at LSU
Mike White tossed his blue suit jacket to the 
ﬂ  oor and walked to the center of his team’s huddle before his players had fully as-sembled. Outsized by all but two of them, the second-year Florida basketball coach 
wasn’t intimidated. 
To the contrary, he wanted to calm his players 
down after they’d given Vanderbilt a 5-0 lead to open Saturday’s game. He thought he’d done so. But then they dribbled the ball down the ﬂ  oor following the timeout and eventually passed it to center John Eg-bunu.
Turnover. Those struggles were the beginning of a trying day 
for White, which ended in his postgame press confer-ence following the 68-66 loss to the Commodores. He got there after addressing his team, and apparently had mellowed. Because when asked what White told his players, forward Devin Robinson hesitated. 
“I don’t know if y'all want me to tell (you) on 
camera,” he said. 
But while everything White said to the assembled 
reporters was camera-appropriate, it was also bru-
tally honest — a trademark of White’s so far during 
his time at UF that’s both rare and commendable. 
After a loss like the one White’s team suffered on 
Saturday, many coaches would be furious. Others would be nearly silent. Others still would revert to 
cliches and sarcasm (cough — Jim McElwain —
cough). 
White is different. Despite recent 
losses, Mike White is 
everything a college 
coach should be 
SHE WAS NAMED THE SEC 
SPECIALIST OF THE WEEK.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Alex McMurtry knew her junior 
season was going to be different than her ﬁ  rst two years in Gainesville.
For one, she was now a veteran 
on an underclassmen-laden team, tasked with setting the bar high through example.She also knew coming in that the 
expectations for her were high, even by her own already-high standards.
As a sophomore, McMurtry was 
the only athlete in the nation to score two perfect 10s on bars, and her 9.90 collegiate debut on ﬂ  oor equaled the highest in a Gators’ debut. 
Attempting to duplicate that lev-
el of success in a new season is a daunting task.
But another difference was that 
for the ﬁ  rst time since she arrived in 2015, her team ﬁ  nally had depth.
“That wasn’t really a thing last 
year,” McMurtry said. “If we had two people out, I think we would have really struggled. This year, we had a lot of new faces and even some freshmen competing for the ﬁ  rst time… That is going to contribute big time. I know some people competed last week, and they could possibly be making future lineups. We are just trying to make the strongest possible lineups for the rest of the season.”While newcomers and returners 
alike have emerged as contributors for the team, McMurtry has been a constant bright spot for Florida through the ﬁ  rst three meets.
The SEC Specialist of the Week 
swept the titles for all three of the events she competed in Friday against North Carolina, posting two 9.95s on beam and vault and a 9.90 on the bars, respectively. 
This season, McMurtry has 
earned ﬁ  ve event titles (three bars, one vault, one beam) and is tied with sophomore Alicia Boren (two beam, one vault, one ﬂ  oor, one all-around) for most titles on the team.
“Alex came into this past season 
motivated with a little extra will and desire,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “She’s been really focused, very determined, dedicated and improving the little things, which is all she really needed to work on were the little things. It’s 
 McMurtry establishing herself as UF's preeminent gymnastSWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
KeVaughn Allen dribbles during Florida's 68-66 loss to Vanderbilt on Saturday at the O'Connell Center. 
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueri
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
GATORS IN THE NBA
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
The 2016-17 NBA season has been 
top-heavy. Elite teams have created large 
disparities between themselves and their mediocre conference counterparts.
And just as ups and downs fill the head-
lines for multiple teams, former Gators have had their own successes and struggles.
The real Beal  The Washington Wizards’ Bradley 
Beal is enjoying the most successful cam-paign of his five-year career, averaging 21.6 points per game on nearly 45-percent shooting. After signing the former third-overall pick to a luxurious five-year, $128 million extension in the offseason, Wash-ington looked for Beal to progress offen-sively as a leader and go-to scorer.But worries regarding his ability to stay 
healthy kept doubters doubting the logic behind the deal.
However, with 44 games already com-
pleted, Beal has managed to improve his durability, suiting up for 40 of those con-tests and achieving career-high numbers in both scoring and assists.
Big men ballin’ and fallin'Two former Gators received lucrative 
deals to leave teams they spent their entire 
careers on, and the outcomes couldn’t be 
more different.
Al Horford, who signed with the Boston 
Celtics after nine years with the Atlanta 
Hawks, is maintaining top-tier center play 
on an Eastern Conference contender. The 
30-year-old is averaging 15.1 points per game while notching 6.9 rebounds and a career-best 1.7 blocks per game.After missing much of the season with 
nagging injuries, the Dominican big man has provided size in the paint that Boston 
has lacked the last few seasons.
His defensive capabilities have made 
the Celtics a scary team to take the ball in-
side on, as seen by his three multi-block 
games in their last eight contests.
Opposite of Horford is former team-
mate Joakim Noah, who left the Chicago Bulls to join to New York Knicks. The 
center summed up his current tenure with 
the Knicks with a free throw on Monday 
against the Indiana Pacers that went viral. 
The shot missed the rim — along with the 
net, backboard and everything else involv-
ing the game.
Noah has averaged a measly 5.4 points 
per game while shooting a career-worst 
41.7 percent from the charity stripe.
The Knicks currently sit at 20-26, good 
enough for a comfy seat at home to watch this year’s playoffs, and Noah has been a non-factor in pushing them toward a top-
eight seed.
Back to the bench 
As the Dallas Mavericks recovered from 
an early season decimation in the form of 
injuries, rookie forward Dorian Finney-
Smith took advantage of the situation with 
solid rotational play.
Now, with many of the Mavericks' 
starters returning, including future Hall of Famer Dirk Nowitzki, Finney-Smith 
expectedly moved back to the bench.
But the 23-year-old hasn’t fallen out 
of the rotation entirely. In fact, Sunday 
saw Finney-Smith total 34 minutes off the 
bench. While his numbers don’t stick out, 
Dallas coach Rick Carlisle has found a nice 
role for the former two-time All-SEC Sec-
ond Team player as a big body who plays 
defense and can stretch the floor.
 
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.orgNoah's embarrassingly inept free throw goes viral 
been really exciting to see how far 
she has come this last season.”
McMurtry is yet to compete in the 
all-around this season because of a lingering back injury. But if all goes according to plan, she will be mak-ing her floor season debut within the next few meets.
In the meantime, she will con-
tinue to tackle the three events she can contribute on with the grace and fluidity that her teammates say has come to define her routines.
“I think watching her is breath-
taking, and it’s amazing,” Boren said. 
“I definitely do look up to her. 
And I competed with her years before we even got her, and I was always like, 'Oh my gosh, that’s the person to beat and everything.' And now to be on the same team with (her) and just to see her practice and 
everything, she’s just someone to 
really look up to and strive to be like 
with her work ethic and attitude.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org
GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 13Boren: '(She) is breathtaking'
More than just honest, he’s transparent. He’ll tell 
you anything you want to know, he’ll do so genu-
inely and succinctly and, if you want to talk X’s and O’s, he’s happy to do so without thinking about it. 
“When you’re switching one through five to ne-
gate (Vanderbilt center) Luke Kornet’s ability as a five-man to stretch the defense,” White said after Saturday’s game, “and they have five guys beyond the arc to negate their ability to get a bunch of threes off, and they still get 25 threes off is beyond me. It’s absolutely incredible.”
I’m not a basketball aficionado, so most of that 
is lost on me. However, for intense, knowledgeable fans and reporters alike, having a coach willing to ex-plain what went wrong in such detail is encouraging. 
Beyond that transparency, White also takes 
and gives blame like nothing, including after the 
Vanderbilt game. 
“I don’t know what to do,” he said in the press 
conference. “We’ve got to figure it out.”
He added: “We work on it every day. We played 
lazy offensively at times in that regard, and it led to 
some of that stagnation.”
He continued: “KeVaughn Allen hasn’t gotten an 
open three in practice in a month. It’s incredible. I don’t know who our team thinks we are, but we’re not that.”
And putting his interactions with reporters aside, 
White is simultaneously as intense a coach as you’ll find and as stoic a coach as you’ll find. 
One moment, he’s pacing the sideline. Then he’s 
yelling. Then he’s squatting and observing for min-utes at a time. And then he’s pacing again. 
That on-court intensity and off-court honesty 
combine to make him an ideal college coach: one who knows how to do his job and how to explain it to reporters and fans. 
But despite all of that praise, his team is, obvi-
ously, still on a losing streak. That being the case, all his off-court humility and on-court tactics get put aside for the moment because if he can’t win, none of that matters. 
And White knows that. He addressed it after the 
Vanderbilt game, channeling his only cliche of the day yet still remaining honest about where his team stands. 
“I know I’ve said this enough times to wear it 
out,” White said, “but (we need to) find a way to get better. Find a way to get better every day.” 
Ethan Bauer is the sports editor. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays. Contact him at ebauer@alliga-
tor.org, and follow him on Twitter @ebaueri.COLUMN,  from pg. 13
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry performs her beam routine during Florida's win 
over Kentucky on Jan. 13. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike White looks on during Florida's loss to Vanderbilt on Saturday. 
ALEX MCMURTRY 
THIS SEASON 
Junior, Midlothian, Virginia 
2017 Season Scores
(N.C. State, Kentucky, North 
Carolina)
• Vault : 9.875, 9.925, 
9.950
• Beam : 9.875, 9.800, 
9.950
• Bars : 9.900, 9.950, 9.900Beal, meanwhile, playing wellWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
For the first time in almost two 
months, Elif Portakal laced up her 
sneakers, pulled on her uniform 
and stepped onto a court to play 
in a women’s college basketball 
game.
The freshman guard from Is-
tanbul, Turkey, returned to the hardwood on Sunday afternoon for 
the Gators after missing the team's 
previous 10 contests with a foot in-
jury.
Portakal’s stat line might not 
have been anything special, total-
ing just three points and one re-
bound in seven minutes of action. 
However, her impact in helping Florida (10-9, 1-5 SEC) win its first conference game this year against 
Georgia can’t be seen by examining 
a box score.
Portakal’s return to a depleted 
UF roster, one that’s had only eight 
active players since Dec. 11, pro-
vides the Gators depth and energy 
at the point guard position, some-
thing they’ve woefully been lack-ing since SEC play began.
After senior Simone Westbrook 
tore her ACL, sophomore Eleanna 
Christinaki left the program and 
Portakal broke a bone in her foot, Florida was forced to use junior Dyandria Anderson, a natural off-
guard, to run its offense.
While Anderson has been ser-
viceable, averaging 4.5 assists per 
game this season to rank third in the conference, she’s had to shoul-der a physically taxing amount of playing time as well, averaging 35.3 minutes per game over UF’s first six SEC contests.With Portakal back in the fold, 
however, Anderson is afforded a competent backup who can also give Florida quality minutes han-dling point guard duties, as she did on Sunday.
“She was outstanding,” assis-
tant coach Shimmy Gray-Miller said of Portakal. “Those minutes were huge because she did great things while she was in there. She was aggressive. She attacked right away.”
Portakal needed just nine sec-
onds to make her presence felt against the Bulldogs.
After stepping onto the court at 
the 5:13 mark of the second quarter 
with the Gators trailing 24-22, Por-
takal received a pass at the top of 
the key and fearlessly drove down the right side of the lane toward the basket.
She was unable to convert 
the layup attempt, but she drew enough contact from Georgia’s Simone Costa to earn a trip to the free-throw line, sending UF’s 
bench into a frenzy.
Despite making only one of her 
two shots from the charity stripe, 
Portakal’s sudden boost of energy sparked an 11-4 run for Florida, in-
cluding a fastbreak layup from the 
Turkey native herself at the 2:20 
mark of the period.
“That was just awesome,” Gray-
Miller said. “It was a great confi-dence builder for the entire team but especially for (Anderson)."
Anderson, meanwhile, tied her 
career high of 13 points against the Bulldogs to go along with six re-bounds, four assists and two steals.
But while the junior played an 
integral role in the win and de-serves praise for her performance, 
Gray-Miller is quick to point out 
the impact Portakal’s return had as 
well.
“She was able to give (Ander-
son) a break,” Gray-Miller said. “So when she was able to go back 
in, we were able to get even more 
out of (Anderson). So that’s huge.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgPortakal rejuvenating point guard position for UF women's hoops
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Dyandria Anderson prepares to shoot a three-pointer during UF's 81-62 loss to South Carolina on Jan. 8. 
Since Eleanna Christinaki transferred, Anderson has endured an increased workload on the court.
But defense won’t be the only 
challenge in UF’s conference matchup tonight. 
Florida’s offense may play 
without its second-highest scorer, guard Canyon Barry. 
White said Barry sprained his 
ankle in practice on Monday. 
“He actually sprained it on a 
score,” White said. “Got to the basket and made a floater and landed on somebody’s foot.”
White said trainer Dave Wer-
ner estimated Barry had a 50-50 chance of playing against LSU.
Despite coming off the bench, 
Barry averages 12.4 points per game and hasn’t missed a free throw since Jan. 7. 
In his possible absence, Flori-
da may lean more on its leading scorer, shooting guard KeVaughn Allen, against the Tigers. 
Allen is coming off a season-
high 29-point performance in Florida’s 68-66 loss to Vanderbilt on Saturday. 
But despite carrying Florida’s 
offense, Allen knows defense is the team’s priority heading into Baton Rouge.
“The past couple of games, I 
feel like my defense hasn’t been there,” Allen said. 
“But I’ve been working on it. 
As a team, we’ve all been work-ing on it to get back to playing defense.”
Despite a hostile LSU crowd, 
the Gators have proven they’re comfortable squaring up away from the O’Connell Center. Flori-da’s produced a 10-4 record away from home after playing its first 11 games away from Gainesville during the O’Connell Center’s $64.5 million renovation.
“The neutral road site games 
have helped us," Allen said.
"Going on the road, we gotta 
go in and fight and battle.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 13Barry has a 50 -50 chance 
of playing against LSU 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Canyon Barry prepares to shoot a free throw during Florida's game against Georgia on Jan. 14 in the 
O'Connell Center. Barry hasn't missed a free throw since Jan. 7. 
FLORIDA’S POINT GUARDS THIS SEASON
• *Eleanna Christinaki – 17.6 points per game, 3.0 assists per game, 3.3 turnovers per game
• Dyandria Anderson – 6.7 points per game, 4.5 assists per game, 3.3 turnovers per game
• Elif Portakal – 1.4 points per game, 1.9 assists per game, 1.9 turnovers per game 
*Christinaki left program on Dec. 11 after refusing to accept a half-game suspension against North Carolina A&T.16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2017
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
