By Ethan Bauer 
Alligator Staff Writer
Chris Stokes walked out of his 
home and screamed toward the 
heavens. He wailed and yelled and cried out to God. He needed to es-cape, to forget the emptiness and confusion, but how could he? The memories follow him. So he trudged back inside. 
It’d been a month since the July 
accident claimed his 17-year-old son Sean’s life, and that’s all he can think about. It doesn’t even take a look at the wall, where his son’s drawings still hang. Or a peek into his bedroom, where his beloved Air Jordans still decorate his headboard. Or a look at the living room, where his football and basketball trophies still crowd the family’s table. All it 
takes is waking up. Before he opens 
his eyes and tumbles out of bed, the memories remind him that Sean no longer lives there. 
He wanders through the house he 
built like he’s lost even though he’s lived there with his wife, Dolly, and 
their sons for six years. For them, 
each reminder brings the crack of a blistering whip. On the living room wall, there are 
Sean’s paintings, from a Thanksgiv-ing turkey hand to a Picasso-esque 
wolf. 
Crack. 
In Sean’s old bedroom, which he 
shared with his 16-year-old brother Kenzie, there’s his collection of bas-ketball shoes, his horde of video games and a football. 
Crack. On the TV, there’s a blackness 
to remind Chris of all the NBA ﬁ  nal games they watched together, all the arguments they had and all the times he caught Sean up late playing video games. Oh, what he’d give to be able to catch him up past curfew again. 
Crack.Chris, a pastor, grew up in Mi-
canopy, joined the military to escape 
it and returned. He missed the com-
munity, the place where “Everybody knew you, and if you did something, you were going to get corrected in the streets.” When he came back, he wanted to give back and eventually founded the New Beginning Chris-tian Worship Center with Dolly. 
He tries to ﬁ  ll the void Sean left 
with faith. He planned to perform Se-an’s eulogy but couldn’t. He needed to focus on healing himself instead of healing his congregation, not know-ing when he’d be able to preach 
again. 
At his church, Sean’s friends and 
family try to heal through faith as 
well. They want to believe there’s a greater purpose for Sean’s early death. But they also believe Sean would’ve been a great plastic sur-geon, physical therapist or entrepre-neur, and they, like his parents, have 
to confront that he never will be. 
“And I know what the scrip-
ture says. I know everyone loves to 
quote, ‘Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morn-ing,’” Chris said. “But nobody tells you that night is hell.”
They both still managed to share 
what they remember. About the 
phone call. About the decision they 
never thought they’d make. About the three seconds it took for their son to go from all-terrain vehicle driver to body to memory. 
The whips make Chris want to 
scream again. But on that morning, just over a month since the accident, he instead made the ﬁ  ve-minute 
drive down Old U.S. Highway 301 KaneWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 3 FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
Football players cited on 
marijuana complaint 
Receiver James Robinson, linebacker Ventrell 
Miller cited for possession in dorm, per UPD , pg 14.
New SG party has registered
The Fall election cycle has begun, pg 3. 
Get ready for late-night Chomp It 
The Graham Hall location will now be 24/7, pg 4. FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
HE HAD WORKED AT 
THE STORE FOR TWO 
AND A HALF YEARS.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Three days after attending the 
Unite the Right rally in Charlot-
tesville, Virginia, Geoffrey Grooms 
was ﬁ  red.
His former employer, Lucky’s 
Market in Gainesville, called him 
and asked if he was at the white nationalist gathering in Virginia on Aug. 12 and said they couldn’t handle the negative press of hav-ing him around, Grooms said. 
The conversation lasted ﬁ  ve 
minutes, abruptly ending the Gainesville resident’s two-and-a-half-year run at the store. 
“It had nothing to do with my work ethic,” Grooms, 23, said. “I’d done good work with them.” 
After the rally in Charlottesville 
erupted in violence, Lucky’s re-ceived about 200 phone calls from residents who saw Grooms’ im-age at the event, which had been shared through social media, said Grooms, who identiﬁ  es as a mem-
ber of the “alt-right” movement 
and a civil rights activist for white people. 
They called to threaten the 
store because of his afﬁ  liations, he said. 
Lucky’s announced Grooms’ 
dismissal via Facebook on Aug. 15, citing its belief in “equality, in-
clusion, and love.” 
“We learned today that one of 
our Gainesville Team Members 
participated in the rally in Char-City divided, a Lucky’s 
employee ﬁ  red after Charlottesville  
SEE LUCKY’S,  PAGE 3 SEE STOKES,  PAGE 8By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Dennis Kane, also known as the 
Turlington Dancer, was banned 
from campus for the next three years by University Police.
Kane, 42, was issued a trespass 
warning Tuesday afternoon after multiple students complained to UPD about his aggressive and loud behavior, according to an incident report.
On Monday, a student studying 
on the fourth ﬂ  oor of Marston Sci-ence Library heard Kane shouting on Turlington Plaza and emailed 
the police to report the disruptive 
noise. The student called Kane “the bald, unusual man in Turling-ton.”
On March 31, screaming Kane, 
red with anger, confronted another student on Turlington Plaza with a clenched ﬁ  st after the student said something Kane didn’t like, ac-
cording to the report. 
On Tuesday, Kane saw the 
student again on the Reitz Union 
North Lawn and remembered him.“You’d bet-
ter watch out,” 
Kane said, pointing his ﬁ  nger at the student, ac-cording to the report.
The stu-
dent reported 
the incidents to UPD, and police decided to place a trespass warn-ing on Kane. This is the second trespass warning placed against Kane on campus; the last three-year trespass warning was issued in August 2012.
Ofﬁ  cers told Kane to leave 
campus Tuesday at 5:15 p.m. after 
a female student told police Kane 
was harassing her, according to the report.
Sgt. Tim Peck, a UPD spokes-
person, said UPD had no reports of Kane on campus since the last warning was issued. 
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org Turlington Dancer 
banned from campus
INTO THE VOID
Courtesy to the Alligator
From right: Dolly, Sean, Kenzie and Chris Stokes pose for a family photo.WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Fall 2017 SG elections informa-
tional meeting 
Fall 2017 Student Government elections are almost here. To learn more about qualifying or 
running for office, attend the in-
formational meeting Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Senate Chamber on the ground level of the Reitz 
Union. SG elections will be held 
Sept. 26 and Sept. 27 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at multiple loca-
tions across campus. Please visit sg.ufl.edu/elections for more in-formation.
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad Fair at the Reitz Union North 
Lawn on Sept. 20 from 10 a.m. to 
3 p.m. UF study abroad program directors and independent pro-gram providers will have table displays and will be available to answer questions. Former study abroad students will share their international experiences. The UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application process and to help students find the right program. 
Overseas internship opportuni-
ties are available. Study abroad can be used to satisfy Summer residency requirements, and most financial aid can be used. For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539. 
GatorNights: Welcome Back
GatorNights is kicking off the 
year with new activities, new-
ly released movies and prizes Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Come to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for headphone disco — a dance party where you con-trol the tunes. In the back half of the Grand Ballroom, challenge a friend to giant darts, air hockey 
or Malpractice. Get crafty in the 
newly renovated Arts & Crafts Center — now open and host-ing a craft Friday night. If you’re feeling lucky, stop by the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom for casino night, brought to you by the Inter-Residence Hall Association. Bingo will take place in Orange 
& Brew from 8:30 p.m. to 10:30 
p.m., and winners will receive “Gator swag” prizes for the first home football game. The film of the week is “The Mummy” (2017), showing in the Reitz Union Auditorium at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is al-ways on Fridays and is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 
Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event. Tango dance classes
The UF Argentine Tango Club is holding free tango classes for all levels. Classes will take place Sunday in Dance Studio A at the Reitz Union. The beginner will 
start at 6:15 p.m. followed by an 
intermediate and advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Dress comfortably, but no special shoes are neces-sary. If you have any questions, please visit us at facebook.com/groups/uftango/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 3
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Online Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Drellinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
SUPER SALE
Saturday/Sunday only
up to 50% off
lottesville, VA,” the Facebook post 
read. “As of today, that Team Mem-ber no longer works here.” 
Lucky’s has since declined re-
quests for comment. 
Noel Opava said she thinks the 
store took things too far, too fast. 
Opava, a UF psychology se-
nior, said the store should have sat Grooms down and voiced their con-cerns with him before taking action, rather than letting him go on the spot. 
The 20-year-old worries that 
Lucky’s ﬁ  ring him like they did could set a bad precedent going for-ward and result in other institutions ﬁ  ring individuals just for having con-ﬂ  icting political views. 
“I don’t agree at all with what 
happened in Charlottesville, but I think it’s a slippery slope to ﬁ  re peo-ple for their beliefs,” Opava said. 
When Gainesville native and 
resident Robert Waelder ﬁ  rst saw Lucky’s post, only one word came to mind: relief. 
“It was pretty much just elation 
that someone was willing to take a 
stand on the issue, especially an em-
ployer here in Gainesville,” Waelder, 31, said.
Waelder, a local DJ, said he 
wasn’t surprised to learn that an “alt-right” supporter lives and works in Gainesville. He reposted Lucky’s announcement on his personal Face-book page.
“I’ve seen these kinds of people 
around in Ocala and in Gainesville before,” he said. “I thought if I posted it, people involved in that movement might get scared and think, ‘Maybe I 
shouldn’t spout Nazi propaganda.’” 
Having German ancestry and a 
grandfather who was an ofﬁ  cer dur-
ing World War II, Waelder said he doesn’t take “alt-right” views lightly. He said he’s seeing history repeat it-self.
“I’m not just going to stand by 
and let fascists make a comeback 
little by little,” he said. 
Grooms and his brothers encoun-
tered anti-fascist protesters on their 
way to the rally site at Emancipation Park in Charlottesville, Grooms said. 
That’s when he said it all went 
wrong. By 11:30 a.m., protesters were 
tossing homemade remedies, includ-ing gas and urine-ﬁ  lled balloons at Grooms and his comrades, while they forced their way through to get to the park, he said.
“It turned out to be a s--- show.” 
An Ohio man connected to white 
supremacists drove a car through 
a crowd of protesters, killing one woman and injuring 19 other people, according to The New York Times. 
Now, in the aftermath of Charlot-
tesville, Grooms’ life has been much more than just losing a job. He fears for his safety. 
In the past week he’s avoided 
going out in public. He said he’s re-ceived about 20 threats online, and he’s taken down all of his social me-dia accounts.
“I don’t think I’ll be able to ﬁ  nd 
another job in this town,” Grooms said. “I may have to move or do something.”
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
said he doesn’t tolerate threats with-in his community but believes the positions of the alt-right and white nationalists at the Charlottesville ral-
ly were not of free speech, but of hate 
and have no place in Gainesville. 
“When people publicly advocate 
a position of violence and harm toward others, they have to under-stand that there will be consequenc-es,” Poe said. 
Despite the setback and feelings 
of isolation within his community, 
Grooms said he’s even more deter-
mined to ﬁ  ght for his beliefs.
“You can take my job away from 
me and send me threats,” Grooms said. “I’m just going to come back and ﬁ  ght even harder.”FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 21 thru 
Friday August 25
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
LUCKY’S,  from pg 1He said it was free speech
THE PARTY WILL GO UP 
AGAINST THE MAJORITY 
IMPACT PARTY.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Impact will not be the only political 
party with senator candidates running for Student Government this Fall.
A group of students who are unsat-
isﬁ  ed with the way the Student Body 
is being represented came together to 
create a new political party called, “In-spire,” said Ben Lima, the party’s presi-dent.
Inspire was founded on three pillars 
— accountability, which means hold-ing student leaders to the highest pos-sible standards; transparency, which means telling students what their fees 
are being spent on clearly and how of-
ﬁ  cials are working on their behalf; and inclusivity, which involves ensuring in-put from all students is taken into con-sideration, Lima said.
Lima, a UF political science sopho-
more, said no speciﬁ  c occurrence prompted the creation of Inspire. In-stead, it was born out of what students were feeling.
“It was formed organically from a 
general sense among students that we should rekindle Student Government democracy,” the 19-year-old said.
Inspire plans to go on a “listening 
tour” in the future, Lima said, to meet with students around campus to hear their demands.
Lima said the party’s leadership is 
a diverse coalition, including members from the former Access Party and the current Impact Party. 
Impact was re-registered Thursday 
and Benjamin Auyang is its new presi-dent, said Impact Majority Party Leader Dakota Stanford (Impact, District C-04).
Auyang denied to comment until 
campaign season begins at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday to avoid seeming as if he or his party is campaigning early. 
Lima said Inspire will focus on ad-
vancing their values, instead of ﬁ  ghting 
against Impact.
“It’s not about running against any-
one,” he said. “It’s about running for 
what we believe in.” 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgNew political party 
registers for SGTHE SEARCH WILL 
BEGIN IN FALL.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a year with several 
racist incidents, UF will hire the 
equivalent of a chief diversity of-ﬁ  cer to support inclusion on cam-pus. 
UF President Kent Fuchs an-
nounced the decision Thursday afternoon at the State of the Uni-versity Address. Fuchs said the decision was made after a year-long search of the best practices in similar positions at other uni-versities. The search for the new hire will begin this Fall, he said.
Jodi Gentry, the vice presi-
dent for human resources, said the new position will be cabinet-level and will focus on three main tasks: serving as a senior advisor, collaborating with other groups across campus and creating a se-nior advisory board.
The position will be focused 
on faculty and staff as well as stu-dents, Gentry said. A search com-mittee will be put together to ﬁ  nd the best candidate for the role. 
“We believe that making sure the university is a welcoming climate for everyone is really im-portant,” Gentry said. “And we believe that this will add expertise to the university in the area of in-clusive excellence.”
Gentry said several groups 
across campus supported the idea of a chief diversity ofﬁ  cer or other similar position. 
The Black Student Affairs 
Task Force, a group that surveyed black students to get a feel for campus climate, offered it as part of the report’s recommendation last Summer, said Will Atkins, the 
executive director for Multicultur-
al and Diversity Affairs.
He said students valued seeing 
themselves in university leader-ship and looked forward to the new hire bringing his or her ex-pertise. 
“MCDA is really excited to 
partner with whoever this is and 
move the president and vice pres-
ident of Student Affairs’ goal of diversity and inclusive excellence forward,” Atkins said.  
Eddie Daniels, the president of 
the Association of Black Faculty and Staff, found out about the new ofﬁ  cer during Fuchs’ address. He said it would be a positive step to addressing issues faced by people of color on UF’s campus.
“I think having someone or 
someones to constantly pay atten-tion to these kinds of issues and come up with positive solutions 
is deﬁ  nitely the right direction for 
the university,” he said. 
Daniels said the association 
has advocated for a position like a chief diversity ofﬁ  cer for years, and supported the report put out by the Black Student Affairs Task Force.
“It’s been a long time coming,” 
he said, “so we’re looking for very positive outcomes.”
Jessica Valdes, a 22-year-old 
UF political science senior, said she was happy to hear the posi-tion was added. 
“I’m hoping we’re going to 
have many more positions open for faculty of color in our univer-
sity so students of color can be 
better represented in academia,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF to add senior diversity oﬃ   cer4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
THE CITY COMMISSION 
HELD THE TALK. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
At a rescheduled town hall fea-
turing a scheduled Q&A with UF 
administrators, no administrators attended. 
UF President Kent Fuchs was 
scheduled on the agenda to give remarks, but when the meeting began, Fuchs was nowhere to be 
seen. 
The Gainesville City Commis-
sion hosted the event at Gainesville City Hall on Wednesday night to mediate a conversation between 
No La IBCita, a movement dedi-cated to keeping the Institute of Black Culture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures separate, and UF. The full City Commission sat to ask questions and listen. Commissioner Charles Goston, a former UF student who protested 
to get the IBC back in the ‘70s, 
chaired the meeting. 
Goston said, seeing the flare-
up of racially charged incidents on campus and UF’s response, he felt like there wasn’t any change from his day.  “They didn’t want to listen 
then, and they seem to not want to listen now,” he said. 
Goston said he would ensure 
UF administrators saw the record-ed meeting and still encouraged the public to ask questions they may have had. UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote in an email that UF stated weeks ago that its ad-
ministrators would not be attend-
ing the meeting.
The initial meeting, which was 
scheduled for Aug. 1, was post-poned.  
Ebony Love, a 21-year-old UF 
history senior, said the town hall was developed to create discus-
sion between UF and students. 
“I hope we start a conversa-
tion and start a conversation on 
transparency most of all,” she said. “And a conversation about accountability.”
Love, who was formerly a Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs am-bassador, said even though MCDA 
announced the buildings will be 
separate, there are still concerns about the project team planning it. 
A new team has been formed 
with 14 members. William Atkins, the executive director of MCDA, previously said members of the committee were chosen based on 
their elected position in organi-
zations or faculty experience, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
Love said she fears the new 
committee only has like-minded individuals on it and that there is only one team for the two build-ings.
“Decisions should not be made 
by people who have all the same mindset,” she said. “You have to have a diversity of thought.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Students hold IBC, La Casita meeting without UF  officials
ANNEXING WOULD 
PROVIDE EMERGENCY 
FIRE SERVICES 
TO MORE PEOPLE.
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer
The City of Gainesville may be 
growing in the near future and 
offer emergency fire services to 
more people.
The Gainesville City Com-
mission is looking to annex the 
unincorporated urbanized areas 
just beyond city limits in an ef-
fort to combat possible slower fire rescue response times after the termination of the fire service assistance agreement.
The FSAA is an agreement that 
states that the closest fire station, whether it be city or county, will respond to the incident whether 
or not it’s in their zone and be 
reimbursed by the other party. Alachua County commissioners voted to terminate the FSAA, according to the General Policy 
Committee meeting agenda. As 
a result, the city and county fire stations will stick to their specific zones when responding to inci-
dents, regardless of proximity, 
starting June 1, 2018.
Some people, including Com-
missioner Harvey Budd, are con-cerned that it will slow the re-
sponse time of first responders. 
Budd experienced a fire in his own Gainesville home and said he believes that the proximity to 
a fire station is what prevented 
his house from burning down.
“Do you wait until someone 
has a death because someone didn’t get there in time? We’re 
talking life and death,” he said. 
City fire stations respond to 
about 25 percent of county calls, 
and county fire stations respond 
to about 8 percent of city calls, 
the Gainesville Sun reported. 
Some unincorporated neigh-borhoods have already made ef-forts to voluntarily annex them-
selves, like Sterling Place. During 
the general policy meeting, one resident of Sterling Place told city commissioners the neighborhood 
had already put together a com-
mittee to move forward with the annexation process. 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
recalled that past annexation at-
tempts have been unsuccessful 
because people have been ada-mant about remaining outside of Gainesville. He feels that people 
living in those unincorporated ar-
eas will be more willing to join the city now. 
“I think one big thing that’s 
changed between our last failed 
annexations and now is the repu-
tation of the city has improved greatly,” Poe said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgGNV City Commission discusses 
expanding city limits
THE NEW BUILDING WILL BE 
COMPLETED IN FALL 2018.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity’s brothers started 
the academic year homeless.
The fraternity, which was kicked off cam-
pus from 2008 to 2012 for hazing, bulldozed 
its house, located at 11 W. Fraternity Row, in 
June and is rebuilding. Construction is expect-
ed to finish Summer 2018, and the house will reopen Fall 2018.
RJ Perkins, the president of UF’s chapter 
of Pi Kappa Phi, said the reconstruction costs $4.7 million. To finance the project, current brothers and recent graduates got a $250,000 loan, promising to repay the amount as soon as they get jobs, Perkins said. The remaining 
money was fundraised by private donors and 
chapter alumni. The brothers have been fund-raising since 2012.
Brothers who formerly lived in the house 
found other accommodations, and the chapter rituals will be held in different locations during construction, Perkins said. 
“Some guys are disappointed because 
there’ll be a year without a house, but every-one’s excited to get back in it since it’ll provide us with bigger and better things,” Perkins said. 
The new house will have the same amount 
of rooms, but instead of being formatted in the 
traditional dorm style they will be designed 
into “common rooms” with “pods,” which are like cubicles, inside. Each brother will have a private pod for himself. 
A new alumni library and a veterans’ 
plaque commemorating the brothers who have served in the armed forces will be added to the house, Perkins said.
David Hicks, the fraternity’s president from 
November 2015 to November 2016, said the old house was built in the early 1960s, and the organization decided it was time to change it. 
“We all decided it was a good idea to start 
with something fresh after we came back,” Hicks said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgPi Kappa Phi building demolished, prepared for reconstructionIT IS ONE OF THREE 24/7 
DINING LOCATIONS.
By Sofia Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will now get the 
chance to snack on late-night 
burgers and fries into the early hours of the morning with a 24/7 
Chomp It. 
The Graham Hall Chomp It is 
now open 24/7. The dining ser-vice and convenience store has 
expanded from its previous 9 a.m. to 4 a.m. hours. 
Chomp It manager Joshua 
Turner said there has been a no-
ticeable increase in customer traf-
fic to the location.
“I would say that it’s great for 
people who have 8:30s, because 
they can just come down and get 
breakfast, because we used to 
open at 9,” the 23-year-old Sante Fe College junior said. 
Jill Rodriguez, the marketing 
program manager of Gator Din-ing Services, wrote in an email that Gator Dining hired additional staff for the new hours. Eighty percent of the Graham staff are students. 
Rodriguez could not release 
the cost of the expansion or the revenue from expansion. 
“By expanding the hours to 
24/7, it will now provide an ad-ditional dining outlet that is open 24 hours,” she said. 
Rodriguez said Newell Hall’s 
Au Bon Pain is also 24/7. The Li-brary West Starbucks is a limited 24-hour location on campus, with restricted hours on Fridays, Satur-days and Sundays. 
Andrew Prince, a UF com-
puter science freshman who lives in Simpson Hall, said he likes the longer hours. 
“It being open 24 hours is re-
ally great because of late at night when I come back and I’m hun-gry, it’s clutch,” the 18-year-old said. Graham Chomp It 
now open 24 hours
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity at UF had its former house demolished in July. A new 
fraternity house will be built at the same location, 11 W. Fraternity Row.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE SUSPECT IS STILL AT 
LARGE, POLICE SAID.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
On the second day of the Fall se-
mester, a Gainesville woman was at-tacked in broad daylight while walk-
ing her Chihuahua. 
The woman, who is in her 40s, 
told police that on Tuesday at about 3:30 p.m. while she was with her dog at Bivens Cove Apartments, lo-cated at 3301 SW 13th St., she saw a man run into the nearby woods, wrote Gainesville Police spokesper-
son Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email.As she continued walking along 
the edge of the woods, the man 
snuck up behind her and hit her in the head with a bottle, Tobias said. He then asked for her money, and she told him she didn’t have any to give. 
The woman’s Chihuahua then 
bit the man’s leg, causing him to run 
back into the woods, Tobias said. She told police the man smelt 
strongly of alcohol and appeared 
homeless. She also said the man ap-peared Hispanic and was between 5 feet 7 inches and 5 feet 9 inches in height. 
Ofﬁ  cers searched the woods near 
the apartment complex and found nothing, Tobias said. 
At 12:43 p.m. Wednesday, UF re-leased a timely warning of the crime, citing that it occurred just south of Tanglewood Village, located at 2901 SW 13th St., where a number of graduate students and students with families live.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
GPD: Man attacks woman, runs away after Chihuahua bite
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Balls sports bar bartender was ar-
rested Thursday after driving drunken-ly, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Benjamin Wienges 
Brandner, 27, was 
driving his gray 1992 
Subaru 60 mph on 
East University Av-enue, near Morning-
side Nature Center, in 
a 45 mph zone when 
police pulled him 
over, according to an 
arrest report. 
Deputies said Brandner had difﬁ  cul-ties balancing and smelled like alcohol. Brandner had vomit in his beard and in his car, according to the report.
When deputies asked him where 
he was going, Brandner changed his answers, according to the report. He spelled his name wrong and fell twice.
Brandner refused to perform ﬁ  eld so-
briety exercises or take a breathalyzer test, according to the report. 
Authorities took Brandner to Alach-
ua County Jail where he was released Thursday on his own recognizance.
Neither Balls sports bar nor Brand-
ner could be reached for comments. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgBalls sports bar bartender 
caught drunk driving
THEY STOLE $4,000 
IN GIFT CARDS.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Three Tampa men were ar-
rested Wednesday night after 
stealing about $4,000 worth of gift cards from Walmart, Alach-ua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Terrence D. Doston, 26, 
Denzel S. Ingram, 20, and Clar-ence Jones, 24, are believed to be part of a statewide crew that commits gift-card-related scams at Walmart locations, wrote Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. 
On Wednesday at about 
2:17 p.m., Doston and Ingram tried to activate and steal gift cards from the Walmart in But-ler Plaza while the cashier was distracted, Tobias said. 
After the cashier noticed 
what was happening, the two men took off without the gift cards and met Jones in the car, Tobias said. The cashier alerted other Walmarts and described the car to police. 
The three men went to the 
Walmart at 1800 NE 12th Ave., distracted a cashier and took 
eight Visa debit cards totalling $4,000, according to an arrest 
report. 
More than an hour after the 
ﬁ  rst attempted theft, two of-ﬁ  cers pulled over the car and found the gift cards in Doston’s pants pocket and in the car, ac-cording to the report. Doston also had four grams of mari-
juana. 
Authorities took the men to 
Alachua County Jail where they 
remain, as of press time, in lieu of bond. Ingram’s bond is set at $100,000; Doston’s at $50,000; and Jones’ at $100,000. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org Three men arrested for 
Walmart gift-card scam 
Brandner
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING ONLINE 
EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOROn Aug. 7, my little brother and I had 
to trek across London from one air-port to another, accompanied by two large suitcases, phones that did not work outside of the country and the 
exhaustion of a day of traveling. Due to general miscommunication, we were separated from the rest of our family, whose flights were out of Heathrow Airport the next day. Ours was out of Gatwick Airport (which has no direct Tube line, mind you).
I had been freaking out about this late-night trek 
since the moment I checked my itinerary and realized we weren’t flying out of Heathrow. 
Not only would we have to take a bus (which we could 
easily miss thanks to the intense U.K. border security), but we’d have to find a taxi to take us to our hotel. Now this doesn’t sound terrible on paper and, in retrospect, I feel really dumb for freaking out as much as I did, but there’s a part of my brain that I’m still struggling to learn how to control which takes a situation like this and magnifies it until I’m lying awake at night, staring at the ceiling and thinking of every possible thing that could go wrong.
The day before we were set to fly out of Croatia, I was 
messaging my friends and relating my anxiety. I com-municate with this group of friends online, and we’re all pretty familiar with one another’s day-to-day lives. When I was talking about how scared I was, one of my friends (the one I’ve known the longest, about six years) told me, “Hey, you’re (name of one my characters), world traveler. You can do this.”
That really stuck with me.Not to bore you with the backstory and details of my 
character, but long story short this character has traveled the whole world and back and finds the unknown thrilling and does not mind not having a plan. 
I listened to my friend and for the span of that journey, I tried to channel that character.
I’m not going to pretend that it totally cured 
my anxiety and that now I’m ready to hop on the first plane out of town and gallivant across the world; I’m still very much me, the person who needs an itinerary and a plan and a back-up plan and a backup for that backup, but it helped for that journey. I got on the bus, did not panic when the bus was late, found a taxi stand, talked to the driver and then to the ho-tel receptionist and made sure my brother was 
with me the whole way. I did it.
A few days ago, that same group of friends and I were 
talking again when one of them admitted that one of her characters helps her when flirting because she can chan-nel his confident energy. We all started discussing the ways our characters help us.
“If you can write it,” said that friend, “you can be it.”As a writer, I do put myself into a lot of my characters. 
All writers do it, whether intentionally or not. Everyone knows this, too. What we don’t usually talk about is that it goes both ways. Yes, we put ourselves into these char-acters, but we also take some things back.
It makes a lot of sense when you think about it. We 
often look to fictional characters for inspiration, be they Hermione Granger or Superman, Leia Organa or Sherlock Holmes. As writers who craft these characters intimately, we can find guidance because we had to put ourselves in these characters’ places and figure out how they got through their situations. 
Am I a bold, jet-setting world traveler who embraces 
missed flights and getting stranded somewhere she does not know? Not at all — but I know I can sure as heck write one very well.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and computer sci-
ence (super) senior. Her column appears on Fridays. Open your mind to 
a unified America
President Donald Trump’s address Monday evening was 
alarming and infuriating to many Americans for a num-
ber of reasons. Somewhere in between the incoherent babbling and deplorable attempts at defending himself 
and his actions, the president announced that not only 
does he plan on keeping troops in Afghanistan, but he wants 
to send more.
Trump’s stance on the war in Afghanistan can be described 
as shaky, at best. His opinions have wavered several times 
throughout his civilian life, his campaign and his presidency. This notorious inconsistency is something citizens have been 
touching on for months with grave concern. While we agree 
his lack of focus is a big issue, there is something more trou-bling we noticed after Trump’s speech.
Traditionally, most voters will vote for a candidate who 
they align with politically. With Trump supporters, we’ve no-ticed this isn’t really the case. They voted for the person and 
all the fanfare that accompanied him — not for his beliefs or 
for his plans for the country. No matter how many times this 
man changes his stance on an important issue or makes a mar-
ginalized group feel uneasy about living in their own country, 
people still love him.
Despite originally bashing former President Barack Obama 
for sending troops to Afghanistan and calling America’s pres-ence there a waste of money, he decided to strengthen our 
forces in the Middle Eastern country. During his campaign, his 
supporters seemed to agree with this stance. Oddly enough, 
they also seem to agree with his new stance announced Mon-
day. 
Likewise, Trump skeptics had a similar reaction. Even if 
they had been in favor of increasing troops in Afghanistan, 
they remained firm on their hatred for Trump. They found 
other reasons to criticize him after his speech and neglected 
to mention the fact that he may have done something they 
actually wanted.
It would appear Americans have made their decision. They 
love Trump, or they hate Trump. No amount of policy change or reconsideration on his part can change that. The lack of 
flexibility from the public is the bigger issue Americans need 
to be focusing on right now.
That being said, we aren’t the biggest fans of Trump. How-
ever, we can recognize when he is leaning in the right direc-tion, and we aren’t ashamed to say it. You can dislike a person 
and a majority of their stances but still be pleased with a few 
of their choices.
To this same effect, you can like a person and be displeased 
with their choices and actions. Although Trump has done 
nearly nothing in office that he promised Americans during 
his campaign, his supporters remain ardent and loyal and his 
adversaries are more fired up than ever.
One thing Trump said in his speech that really resonated 
with us was that he didn’t want soldiers to return home from Afghanistan to a country at war with itself.
Right now, America is a divided nation. We have Trump 
lovers and Trump haters, and it has led to an unstable and 
unsafe environment to live in. We believe Americans need to 
start listening more to what is being said rather than who is saying it. Until we are able to break away from our unwaver-
ing opinions, America remains divided, and problems remain unsolved.
Please, dear reader, open your mind to a more unified 
America.Tell yourself if you can write it, you can be it 
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
CAREER FAIR
August 30, 2017
10am - 2pm
Jasmine Point Multipurpose Room
8000 NW 27 Blvd., Gainesville, FL 32606Please apply online
www.thevillageonline.com/careers
email: talentacquisAssisted Living and 
Home Health
Companions
Certified Nursing AssistantsNursesDining Services
Servers
Kitchen Porter
CookAdditional Open 
Position
Maintenance Supervisor
HousekeeperSecurity GuardTransportation Driver
Monday, President Don-
ald Trump spoke to 
hundreds of U.S. ser-
vicemen and women 
in Virginia to update 
the country on the state of the 
Afghanistan War, as well as ﬂ  esh out his administration’s 
strategy for the future. Through-
out his campaign, Trump pro-claimed that he would swiftly end the conﬂ  ict and bring home the thousands of soldiers currently stationed in the war-
torn country. However, several months 
into his tumultuous presidency, Trump’s stance has pivoted. In his speech, the 
president laid out a new strategy that will 
result in more troops and resources being used for the war.
Trump critics will look at the shift in 
military plans as they do with every move 
he makes — with intense criticism and hy-
pocrisy. Maybe Trump’s statements dur-ing the campaign were a little shortsighted and pathologically heavy, but a change in 
plans is not a sign of weakness. Instead, I 
believe it to be a new sign of maturity of the president.
A continual criticism of Trump that has 
been present since the infantile stages of his presidential campaign is his massive 
ego. It is undeniable that Trump is one of 
the most conﬁ  dent men in the public eye. The gigantic, bold letters of T-R-U-M-P 
placed on the outside of his most lavish 
properties do not suggest any semblance of timidity or reservation.
The concerns about Trump’s ego con-
tinued into the early stages of his presi-dency as he was selecting his cabinet 
members. In May, after the U.S. withdrew 
from the Paris climate accord, Slate Maga-zine published an article titled “Trump’s 
Climate Decision is a Reminder That He 
Doesn’t Heed Expertise.”
Leaving the Paris climate accord might 
be viewed as a mistake — and I certainly 
hope that Trump will always listen to ex-
pert advice — but policy aside, I believe 
that Trump’s speech Monday was a very 
good sign. It revealed that Trump is ca-pable of moving past his rhetorical cam-
paign plans and being receptive to the 
advice of those more experienced and knowledgeable, in this case the military generals in command. 
He showed he can scrap ideas 
he had previously proclaimed if 
said ideas were ill-informed or 
not the optimal course of action for the country.
Whether you are president 
of the U.S. or a third-grader on a playground, it takes a certain 
level of maturity to back off of a previ-ously held stance in favor of a superior one provided by someone else. The ac-
tion itself shows the acknowledgment that 
your own idea was inferior and that you are capable of setting your own ego aside 
for the greater good.
In a few days, nobody will be talking 
about Trump’s speech. Why? Because se-
rious, presidential business is being con-
ducted and frankly, it probably doesn’t bring up ratings. It involves Trump simply 
doing his job and doing it well, if you ask me. It seems that all of the energy, atten-tion and focus of the media and much of 
the public is being directed in the wrong 
places — at things that do not relate di-rectly to his performance as president but 
instead to him as a person.
Every media outlet will appear to have 
some sort of political leaning, since they are run by humans, not robots, but it is 
starting to seem that once-reputable news organizations are covering news more 
akin to TMZ than to actual, meaningful 
news.
I am all for criticizing Trump when he 
is wrong, but I also believe in commend-ing him when he is right. It’s a shame that when Trump does his job well, as with his 
speech this week, the majority of media 
coverage remains focused on the negative. In a world of “fake news,” it takes a con-
siderable amount of effort to ﬁ  nd objec-
tive reporting, and it is a shame that more time is spent discussing tweets than actual speeches.
Andrew Hall is a UF management se-
nior. His column appears on Fridays.Trump’s Monday address needs to 
be viewed more positivelyColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgWelcome back to The 
Swamp, Gators. I hope everyone has been having a fabu-lous summer, after 
all, I already know all the Flor-ida residents have been having a warm one. However, now that we are all back in action and ready to go, it's time to get seri-ous. Let's talk about the planet and how to make it better.
Every parking spot is taken, the scoot-
ers are zooming and of course, the mall is 
ﬂ  ooded with back-to-school shoppers. Ah, 
doesn’t it feel good to be home? Although 
you may already feel like there is just too much going on, there is actually one thing you can do to make your home a better 
place. 
All it takes is smarter shopping. 
This year, while you are updating your 
wardrobe, redecorating your apartment or rushing to get all your school supplies, 
start buying ethically-made products. 
They are actually made with the planet’s 
safety in mind. This is something we need to make a habit of. We can’t just look at the sales rack any longer. We need 
to look beyond that and into companies’ 
histories. By focusing on buying better 
products, we can also create a better to-morrow. 
Ethically made products do not cause 
harm to humans, animals or the environ-ment. This is because they are manufac-tured by fairly-treated workers, with eco-friendly and cruelty-free materials. When you buy them, you contribute to these valuable movements. 
When you shop ethically, you promote 
wellness, sustainability and quality. You support stores that guarantee their work-ers’ human rights. You are doing your part to conserve resources. 
You wear clothes that are made of 
long-lasting, organic material — and that’s just you. If everyone shopped like 
this, think of how much of a difference 
we could make. Best of all, there’s an 
app that shows you exactly where to find these items.
The app is called Good On You. Basi-cally, it rates stores on a scale from “avoid it” to “great.” A store is “great” if the com-pany has policies to protect its manufacturers, uses or-ganic materials, doesn’t test on animals and is completely transparent. A store must be avoided if the company does not provide any information 
about the treatment of its workers or the resources it uses. 
Similarly, Good On You’s mission 
statement revolves around informing 
the public. To be in the know, you must download the app and create an account. 
From there, use the app’s search option 
and check out any organization’s ratings.
Even if your favorite shop does not 
have a high score, you don’t have to wor-
ry. Good On You will redirect you to a 
similar place that is better for the environ-
ment. This way, you can still shop your favorite styles or buy your favorite items. If you don’t have a specific shop in mind, 
you can also search by category. 
For instance, if you need a new back-
pack to rock around campus, just type 
that in and the app will do the rest for you. It will show you ethical companies that offer the eco-friendly version of what you are looking for. Plus, there is also a section that shows you how expensive it is, so you can decide what to splurge on.
Either way, as long as you keep these 
things in mind, you will be able to shop at more ethical locations and ultimately im-prove your home. With smarter shopping, you can reduce pollution and conserve re-sources. This is absolutely crucial to keep 
the planet — and everyone on it — safe. 
After all, making the world a better 
place never goes out of style.
 
Victoria Fortier is a UF journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on Fri-
days.Shop with a purpose and make 
the world a better placeColumn
Victoria Fortier
opinions@alligator.org
“When you shop ethically, you promote 
wellness, sustainability and quality. 
Victoria Fortiernear his home in Citra and turned 
onto the gravel path where his son died. And, for the third time since the accident, he looked, remembered and tried to forget. 
On the morning of July 1, Chris 
woke up around 7:00 a.m. to meet 
with church leadership and discuss 
purchasing land. Before he left, he woke up Sean. Sean’s uncle is in a motorcycle club called the Get Ghost Boyzz, and that Saturday was the group’s annual gathering. Sean had asked if he could go, so Chris woke him up and reminded him he could on one condition. 
“I don’t care what you do today,” 
Chris told him, “but you have to cut the grass.”
He headed to the bathroom to get 
dressed while Sean prepared to mow the lawn. As Chris walked toward his Ford F-150, Sean turned toward the mower. Chris got into his truck and never looked back. 
Around 11:00 a.m., Sean called 
Chris. 
“Da,” said Sean, who called his 
dad by that nickname. “I’m fin-ished.”
“OK,” Chris told him. “I’m on my 
way home anyway.”
“OK,” Sean said, and hung up. When Chris got home around 
1:00 p.m., Sean was already gone. Dolly, admittedly overprotective, called her brother and asked if he’d seen Sean. 
“Oh yeah,” he told her. “He’s 
around here running around some-where. He’s having a good time.”
“Well, if you see him,” Dolly an-
swered, “tell him it’s time to come 
home.”
Around the same time, Sean’s 
uncle was grilling chicken under a 
clear, searing Florida sky. About 100 people had gathered to view motor-cycle exhibits, eat and have a fun afternoon. Some others were riding their ATVs on a dirt road next to the event, though that wasn’t part of the event. Sean, who’d been at the event 
earlier, was one of them.
He sped down the dirt road on 
a 2004 Yamaha Raptor flanked by 
houses on one side and trees on the other. At some point during his re-turn, according to the Florida High-way Patrol accident report, he lost control of the ATV, skidding sud-denly to the left for “an unknown 
reason.” In about three seconds, his 
wheels started to hug the canopy. One second later, he crashed into a telephone pole-sized tree driving 30 mph. He flew into it head first without a helmet as the ATV rotated counterclockwise around the trunk and stopped, his 17 years of life near-ly erased in less time than it takes to 
tie a shoe. 
Sean’s spine was shattered, his 
neck was broken, his rib cage was 
crushed, his heart was damaged and blood filled his brain, but he was alive. It’s unclear how much time passed as Sean laid motionless in the dirt, his brain swelling with blood and his limbs numb, before 
someone realized he’d been gone 
too long and went looking for him. When paramedics arrived, Sean was barely alive.
His parents, meanwhile, were at 
the Dollar General picking up thank-you cards for church. Chris had been unable to preach for a month after having surgery to remove a tumor 
on his prostate, and Sunday was set 
to be his return to the pulpit. Then his phone rang. 
“What are you doing?” asked the 
voice on the other end.
“I’m in the Dollar General,” he 
answered. “Why?”“Sean’s been in an accident.”He and Dolly sped to the scene. 
Great, they thought. Sean broke his arm, and now we have to deal with it. Then they turned down the dirt road and saw the crowd and the am-bulance. 
Chris hopped into the ambulance 
while Dolly followed in their car. 
“Don’t look back,” the driver told 
him. “They’re working on him, and it’s a really bloody scene.”
When they arrived at Ocala Re-
gional Medical Center, doctors told them Sean sustained serious inju-ries. His nervous system was dam-aged, and his brain was too swollen 
to move him. They tried to relieve 
the pressure by drilling a hole in his skull, but the fluid erupted like a geyser. 
At best, Sean would live, but he’d 
be in a vegetative state on a ventila-tor forever. 
“He would be alive,” Chris said, 
“but that’s not living.”
They had to decide whether to 
keep Sean alive, so they prayed. But not in the way they usually did. Chris’ first prayer was out of anger. 
“We’re only gonna have him for 
17 years,” the pastor kept repeating to himself and to God. 
Then it shifted to a plea for 
strength, which lasted through the 
night. Somewhere between 20 and 
40 relatives and friends also waited with them as they made their de-cision. They continued asking for strength.
“Because we knew we were go-
ing to walk out of that room with our lives changed forever,” he said. “And we were gonna need strength 
for that.”
They decided to remove medical 
support, reasoning that it would be 
selfish to keep him alive. Doctors unhooked him at 12:12 p.m. on Sun-day. As they did, the congregation as-
sembled in the waiting room prayed for a miracle. But inside, Chris and Dolly held Sean’s hand and watched for the next three minutes as the only 
remaining monitor flashed. Flashed. 
Flashed. 
Then the screen turned black. Chris toiled into the waiting room 
and addressed everyone who’d as-sembled and begged for Sean to be saved.
“He’s gone,” he told them. “He’s gone.”
After suffering through prostate 
cancer and the death of his son, 
Chris returned to his role as pastor Aug. 6. He greeted the congregation at the tiny hall of worship in Micano-
py by bumping fists with friends and 
hugging children. 
“What’s up little man?” he said to 
a young boy. “Everything good?”
The service started with a four-
person group of singers leading the church in songs of worship. 
“C’mon c’mon c’mon!” Chris 
implored them. “Put those hands to-
gether for Jesus!”
Fewer than two minutes in, the 
congregation was in a clapping fren-
zy as Chris sat motionless atop the highest chair in the room. 
“Alright, let’s go get this praise,” 
he told them, suddenly animated.
With around 50 people, the small 
wooden church was at capacity. 
Then Chris started speaking, and some cracks formed in his facade. But he always came back to the same message. 
“Even in the loss of my son,” he 
yelled with drums pounding in the 
background, “I trusted Him!”
“Even though I’m struggling, 
even when we’re struggling, we 
seem to fall back on our worship,” he said later on. “We fall back on our praise.”
Then he goes home and glances 
at Sean’s picture or his diploma or the Spongebob Squarepants poster 
that hangs over his bed. Then the 
memories flood back and drown out everything else, setting back any progress in seconds. Their minds wander to thoughts of their son, and the questions about where he’d be today keep crack, crack, cracking away at the void.
Chris and Dolly hope to keep 
Sean’s memory alive by handing out scholarships to graduating high school seniors in his name. Chris liked to tell Sean that “education is the new currency,” and while Sean never got to pursue his own, Chris hopes that in Sean’s death, others 
will be able to. They also hope to 
raise awareness for ATV safety and remain confident that though his loss has caused them great pain, he gained new life in heaven. 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
Courtesy to the Alligator
This pamphlet was distributed at Sean Stokes’ funeral on July 8. His 
father, Chris, spoke briefly and encouraged those in attendance to let Sean live through them.
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Chris Stokes gestures toward the sky during a sermon on Sunday. The sermon focused on getting to know God better. 
•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
TODAY from 
9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Visit us at 
either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetTHE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Copy Editors, Photo Interns, 
Contributing Writers.
Visit the Alligator OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the editors 
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.Left: Cassie Catania, a 27-year-old UF alumna, stays still as Louis Searcy, a 
27-year-old UF graduate student, holds her with his bare feet. The pair comes 
to the farmers market every week to practice poses through a group called AcroYoga Gainesville. 
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Above: From right: Hanna Latees, a 20-year-old UF biology junior, laughs as she 
shares a sweet snack with her friend Nuha Chowdary, a 19-year-old UF industrial engineering junior. The two say they enjoyed the live music at the farmers market on Wednesday.
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
STUDENTS CAN DONATE 
10 CENTS WITH ANY 
PURCHASE.
By Kacey Finch 
Alligator Contributing Writer
When buying food on campus, 
students can now donate to UF’s 
Field and Fork Pantry. 
The pantry began Gators CAN 
Give on Aug. 15. for students to 
donate at least 10 cents to the pan-
try at Gator Dining locations, said Ambre Hobson, the pantry’s super-visor of day-to-day operations. 
“We have no idea what to ex-
pect in terms of how much money this could raise,” Hobson said. “I think we are just going to be happy with anything.”
The Field and Fork Pantry is a 
free resource for hungry students who cannot afford to buy food for themselves and, possibly, their families, the 30-year-old said. The pantry’s inventory mostly consists of nonperishable items. 
The pantry typically receives 
fewer donations at the beginning 
of semesters, Hobson said. 
When students make a pur-
chase at one of 48 Gator Dining 
locations, they’ll be asked if they would donate in increments of 10 cents, which is the cost of a can of food from the local food bank, Hobson said. 
“We just hope to remove an ob-
stacle between students and suc-cess,” she said. “We feel that it’s hard enough studying for exams and working on group projects when you’ve got a full belly, let alone when you’re also preoccu-pied with where your next meal is coming from.” 
Hobson said although there are 
no specific financial goals, the fun-
draiser is also a way to market.
“There are a lot of people on 
our campus that could use a ser-
vice like the Field and Fork Pan-try but just aren’t aware of it,” she said.
Libby Shaw, a UF public rela-
tions sophomore and Student Gov-ernment senator, wrote a resolu-
tion supporting the program.
“The first step between Student 
Government and this program was 
this resolution,” Shaw said.
Shaw said she attended meet-
ings with departments who worked together on the program, such as Gator Dining Services, Business Affairs and the pantry.
“It was amazing sitting there in 
the meeting room with all of those administrators who are working together to get this program up and running,” Shaw said. 
Shaw said SG’s role is to inform 
students of the fundraiser.
“I just really want people to 
know how amazing the Field and 
Fork Pantry is,” Shaw said. “It’s 
just such a great resource on cam-pus.”Field and Fork Pantry 
starts 10 cent fundraiser  By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
A new Asian bakery will open 
on 34th Street on Tuesday to give 
the crowds what they want: pine-apple buns. 
Sweet Buns Bakery will open 
next to its parent business, Yummy House, at 3102 SW 34th St. The bakery will offer Asian pastries,including crepe cakes, egg tarts and 120 types of buns, which are mildly sweet, ﬂ  uffy breads, said John Zhao, the general man-ager. The bakery’s hours will be from 7:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily, be-ginning Tuesday for its three-day 
soft opening. Zhao said there may 
be a grand-opening next weekend.
During the soft opening, there 
will be specials like buy 10 buns, get one free, Zhao said. The buns will range from $2 to $4.50, and the cakes will be about $3.50. 
“I love buns,” he said. “I eat all 
kinds of buns.”
Alexi Towner, a UF linguistics 
senior, said she’s excited for the new bakery for her quick ﬁ  x of pineapple buns.“As far as I know, we don’t re-
ally have something like this (in Gainesville),” the 21-year-old said.
Zhao said he’s looking forward 
to providing his food to Floridians. The company also plans to open a second Sweet Buns Bakery in Tampa within the next three to four months.
“In Florida, we need a good 
Asian bakery, we need it,” he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgAsian fusion bakery opens 
By Emily Mavrakis
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Community Redevelop-
ment Agency promises Midtown neighbors and businesses that con-struction on Northwest First Av-enue will end in October
The $4 million More in Midtown 
project started in January and will renovate the 1600 to 1900 blocks between St. Augustine Church and Emerson Alumni Hall by moving utilities underground, creating ad-ditional car, scooter and bicycle parking and expanding sidewalks.
Sarit Sela, a project manager, 
said the area is a prime location in Gainesville that needed more struc-ture, order and safety to make it an inviting area.
“We are trying to create a space 
that is not just to drive through, but a destination for people,” she said.
Recycling bins will replace 
some garbage containers along the street and consistent LED lighting will be placed along sidewalks for better visibility.
But unﬁ  nished construction has 
resulted in problems at some busi-
nesses along Northwest First Av-
enue and University Avenue.
Klajdi Kola, a UF economics se-
nior who works at The Spot, a res-taurant located at 16 NW 18th St., just steps away from where roads are closed for construction, said business has declined dramatically since roads and sidewalks leading to the restaurant became blocked 
in May.
“People can’t park,” the 
22-year-old said. “They blocked 
the whole sidewalk so people who live (north of Northwest First Av-enue) can’t come here.”
Sela said there have been some 
trafﬁ  c impacts, but that these are minimal and temporary.
“We have been working very 
closely to make sure we have the signage and temporary parking,” she said. City agency says Midtown 
construction to end in OctoberBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT OR 
ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
Room available in 2/2.5 Townhouse in Beacon Hill. Room has private full bathroom and balcony. Minutes from UF SHANDS and UF campus. 525.00/mo plus shared utilities. Email: yessie22@msn.com.     8-30-17-5-2
For Rent - 2 Bedroom 2 1/2 Bath Great Location for Students, close to UF/Shands and Butler Plaza.$900.00 per monthFor more information - 386-214-6777    8-30-17-3-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5
Western NC Mtn ViewsNew 2bed, 2bath one-level cabinon 2.88 level acres w/fpl, deckpatio, vaulted ceilings $169,900828-286-1666       8-25-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-21-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-21-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
HOT SUMMER GARAGE SALE!Includes Christmas & household items, tools, Vintage & other furniture. Saturday 26August 7am-2pm; Sunday 27August 7am-12pm. 3841 SW 2nd Ave, Gville    8-25-17-1-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-121For Rent
furnished
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. 
W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. Pool, clubhouse. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-14-17-2-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
● 2008 HONDA FIT - 5-speed, 88k miles,excellent condition, $3750 / OBO● 2011 MIATA MX5 - 5-speed, only 18k 
miles, super condition $15k. Call 973-634-8821    8-25-12-3-12
2001 Cadillac Deville DTS.\500 miles on new engine, rebuilt front end, new tires., multiple CD player, spare parts. Beauty of a ride. $ 3200.     8-30-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14Country Inns and Suites by Carlson of Gainesville, Florida is currently seeking New Hires!
Breakfast Attendant- This position is re-
sponsible for the setting up and closing of 
breakfast area, inventory and/or ordering of breakfast food and supplies, maintaining a clean and welcoming breakfast area, assist-
ing guests and other staff to provide a posi-
tive experience for all.
Assistant Head Housekeeper-  To allocate 
daily cleaning tasks and issue items such as 
keys, linen and cleaning materials to house -
keepers. 
Front Desk/ Night Auditor- It is very impor-
tant that the individual possesses a strong 
outgoing personality, with an ability to pay 
close attention to details. The successful 
candidate should be able to work well with others, and maintain responsibility. 
Well Qualified Applicants:
●Previous experience is preferred.
●Knowledge of Opera Property Management System
●Strong communication skills written and 
verbal are essential (Bi-lingual +)
●Experience working in a multi-tasking, fast paced environment●Demonstrated 5-star customer service skills
●Ability to work all shifts, including week-
ends, evenings and holiday
Please apply in person at the
hotel direct at the address below:
Country Inn & Suites
4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, FL 32608
352-375-1550
8-25-17-3-14
1.  Christmas ____
1.  Coop sound5.  ____ sweep
2.  English farewell6.  Send, transfer
3.  Not identified 7.  Type of vulture 
4.  Brick holderCUSTAC
LKACECNLCEA
MERTI
OERHEIC
UMEDNNANORCDO
RORMATANSWERS: 1A-Cactus  5A-Clean  6A-Remit  7A-Condor
1D-Cackle  2D-Cheerio  3D-Unnamed  4D-Mortar  B-Arctic Ocean8-25-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____’s coastline is 
28,200 miles long. BONUS
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
Professional parents looking for a sitter for a 3 month-old, select afternoons, 15 hr/wk. Must have prior experience with infants, and reliable transportation. Pay is $12/hr. Please call 352-371-3418.     8-30-17-5-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-
10-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-21-17-
25-15
GRE Self-Paced Program
now only $199!
Prep anytime- anywhere!
Find more info & enroll here:
PrincetonReview.com
9-1-17-5-15"The Spiritual Purpose of Dreams" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., Aug. 20     
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
Everyone welcome
8-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334-7726 and make a real connection.      8-25-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-11-17-7-14
Copytalk Business Services is a financial transcription company located near UF cam-pus in Gainesville and is currently offering flexible scheduling part-time transcriptionist positions.Ideal candidates should meet the following requirements:- Have excellent English grammar, spelling, and comprehension skills- Touch type 60+ wpm- Be able to work a minimum of 16 hours per week Monday through FridayAPPLY ONLINE ATWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM        9-6-17-5-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    9-8-17-6-14
ACROSS
1 Song one can’t
perform?
5 Walk through
puddles
10 Mosul’s home
14 On the water15 Princess
Toadstool’srescuer
16 Run into, maybe17 Online gaming
tyro
18 Salem residents
20 Rudely confront
espionage
supervisors?
22 OPEC member23 Guzzler24 Holy verse27 Letters by the
shore
30 __ wave34 Agreement on
the ratio of inniesto outies?
37 Quote from a
goat
38 Absent39 “O Sole __”40 Ones meekly
entering debitsand credits?
45 Embezzles46 Trike rider47 Big name in
electric cars
48 Somerhalder of
“The VampireDiaries”
50 Org. that helps
you find a way
51 High praise at a
carousel?
59 Pinpoints60 Apple talker61 Seeks62 With no other63 Noodle variety64 Upscale65 Cut with a beam66 Await a decision
DOWN
1 Ultimate Fighting
Championship
president White
2 Biennial games
org.
3 Fair-hiring agcy.4 Mediterranean
salad
5 Hit hard
6 Prix de __ de
Triomphe: annualhorse race
7 Oft-twisted
cookie
8 Leo, for one9 Hilarious sorts
10 More than silly11 Down-to-earth12 Coulter and
Curry
13 Liq. measures19 Campus org. for
future ensigns
21 Cousin of Dan’l?24 Adidas
alternatives
25 More than a peck26 Old counters27 Great guy?28 Chaise place29 Fire starter31 Common state
capital features
32 Moon of Uranus33 Parkinson’s drug35 Rustic stop36 “Life of Pi”
director Lee41 “Wow!”
42 Grammarian’s
concern
43 Legato’s
opposite, in mus.
44 Closes, as a
wound
49 Like some cold
symptoms
50 Pimply51 Indicación de
afecto52 Sacred chests53 Arizona river
54 “The Dukes of
Hazzard” deputy
55 Top-shelf
56 Support staff
member
57 Monopoly token
replaced by a cat
in 2013
58 Object to59 Nuke
By Samuel A. Donaldson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/25/1708/25/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 25, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Support
financially
5 Hurricane, e.g.
10 Drainpipe section
14 Face cream
additive
15 Medicare
component
16 Leaping critter17 Depend (on)
18 Had superior
skills in
20 Word on really
bright Crayolas
21 Jazz great
Montgomery
22 Helen Reddy’s
“__ Woman”
23 Commentary
page
25 Turned out to be
29 Blew hard
32 Way back when33 Helped start the
pot
34 Comic Johnson
36 Big __37 Regret
38 Not alfresco, and
what this puzzle
is vis-à-vis itsborder answers
41 Craft built in the
2014 film “Noah”
42 Nile snake
43 Yemeni seaport
44 Speed
46 Become resentful49 Vampire’s bed?
50 Painter Manet
51 Sketch material52 Commuter org. in
the Loop
53 __ Butterworth54 “Wild Blue
Yonder” mil.group
58 Waterway
between themajor islands ofNew Zealand
62 Leg-covering
skirt
63 Green Gables
heroine
64 Boardroom prop65 Part of FEMA:
Abbr.
66 Caboose place
67 Broadway
platform
68 Fries, for
instanceDOWN
1 Silo neighbor
2 Toward
protection, at sea
3 Great Sand
Dunes NationalPark st.
4 Pinnacle of a
lecture series
5 Erupted6 Strained7 Tolkien
henchmen
8 GPS suggestion9 Feign illness to
avoid work
10 Motifs11 “Far out, dude!”12 Notre Dame’s
Parseghian
13 Kennel guest
19 Put on board
24 Spa treatment25 Big name in
stationery
26 Ornamental fabric
27 Lorre’s
“Casablanca”
character
28 Pita feature29 Tech company’s
origin, perhaps
30 On the shelf31 Move in the
direction of34 Threw in
35 Sushi roll topping
39 Tells a story
40 Layered do45 Takes for granted
47 Lollipop
48 Feed bag feed49 Once-per-player
chess move
51 “Norwegian
Dances”composer
53 Tamale dough55 Scandinavian
language
56 Used a hatchet on
57 Cause for alarm
58 Honda or
Hyundai
59 Pepsi product
that’s also itscalorie count
60 Springsteen’s
“Working __
Dream”
61 Scoundrel
By Peg Slay©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/24/1708/24/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 24, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Five Gators named to Senior Bowl watch list
Florida football DBs Duke Dawson, Nick Washington, TE DeAndre Goolsby, 
WR Brandon Powell and punter Johnny T ownsend were named to the 
Reese's Senior Bowl watch list on Thursday.Gators football coach Jim 
McElwain has yet to name a starting quarterback with just over a week remaining until Florida's ﬁ  rst game. Read the story, pg. 15.By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
           
It's been 630 days since the 
Gators played their last game in 
the O’Connell Center, a thrilling 3-1 victory in the NCAA Tourna-ment against Florida State in 2015.
Tonight, Florida will play its 
ﬁ  rst game in the arena since it underwent renovations during the 2016 season. The No. 12 Gators will kick off their 2017 campaign in the VERT Challenge at 7 p.m. against top-ranked Texas, last 
year’s runner-up in the NCAA 
Tournament.
In the 630 days that the Gators 
were without the O’Connell Cen-
ter, the team played in the Lemer-
and Athletic Center, which usually serves as a practice facility for the team. “The Lem”, which had a ca-pacity of approximately 700 peo-
ple, hosted 14 matches during the 
2016 season.For senior Rhamat Alhassan, 
getting back into an arena that 
holds over 14 times that number 
of fans is an exciting proposition.
“Finally,” Alhassan said. “Play-
ing in the Lemerand was great, but 
having to turn away fans is never 
fun. Being back in the new Ex-actech Arena is going to be great. I’m ready to be in there, and we’re all excited for the open space, the 
ﬂ  oor, the atmosphere and know-
ing that we’ll have so many more people there to support us.”
The O'Connell Center isn't the 
only new addition the Gators are excited about, as freshmen Paige Hammons and Macy Phillips will take the court with praise from 
their teammates and coach Mary 
Wise.
“(Both of these players) have 
just caught on so much faster,” Wise said. “Paige Hammons has 
found her way on the court be-
cause she’s passing at such a high level that in some way, shape or form, she’s going to be on the 
court.”
Carli Snyder, the senior outside 
hitter for the Gators, also spoke 
about the growth of the freshmen 
through their ﬁ  rst few months on 
campus.
“We had a lot of time to build 
upon existing relationships and also got to know (Hammons and 
Phillips) really well,” Snyder said. 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsYes, I understand 
Gator football sea-
son is underway next 
weekend.
I’ve seen it all 
over my Twitter feed, 
heard about it as I walk past the thou-sands of students that 
roam the campus and 
read the headlines and stories about ev-ery possible position battle.
You know what I haven’t 
heard anyone getting truly hyped for?
Gators volleyball.Seven hundred ninety-four. 
That’s how many wins head 
coach Mary Wise has accumu-
lated throughout her 27 seasons leading Florida's volleyball team.
Want to know how many 
losses she’s had in that same pe-riod? I bet you don’t, because right now you’re too hyped for 
football.
Well, the number 
is 99. Which means 
that while at the Flor-ida, Wise boasts a ca-reer winning percent-
age of .889. So when 
you go to a volleyball game at the O’Dome, 
expect to walk out having seen a Gator victory.
Last year when I was a sopho-
more and my beard game wasn’t as strong – my scrufﬂ  e has been looking more deﬁ  ned as of late – I walked into the Gale Lemerand 
Center ready to cover my ﬁ  rst 
volleyball game between Florida and Kentucky.
The Gators were swept in three 
straight sets, losing only their sec- Why aren’t you more hyped 
for Florida Gators volleyball?By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
UF freshman receiver James 
Robinson and freshman lineback-
er Ventrell Miller were cited on a complaint of marijuana possession in an on-campus dorm room early Monday morning.
According to a police report, a 
residential assistant was outside of the Keys Residential Complex 
at around 12:30 a.m. when he 
smelled “burnt cannabis emanat-ing in the air.”
The residential assistant then 
contacted University Police, who arrived on scene and entered one of the dorm’s rooms, according to the report. Upon walking into the room, ofﬁ  cers found “a cloud of smoke and a styrofoam cup” that appeared to have been used as an ashtray, according to the report.
Both Robinson and Miller were 
inside the room, according to the report.
Ofﬁ  cers discovered two small 
bags of what appeared to be mari-juana inside of a drawer. Robinson and Miller said they each owned one of the bags, according to the report.
The bag Robinson said was his 
contained 2.1 grams of a “green leafy substance,” while the bag Miller said was his contained 0.2 grams of a “green leafy substance,” according to the report.
Both bags later tested positive 
for marijuana. Robinson and Miller were both issued a notice to appear in court but were not arrested, ac-cording to the report.
"Coach (Jim McElwain) is 
aware and it has been dealt with," a UF spokesperson said.
Robinson was seen at Tuesday 
and Wednesday practices in seg-ments open to reporters. This is Robinson’s second marijuana cita-tion in the last eight months. He re-ceived a similar citation in January while on a recruiting trip to Ohio State University. 
This isn’t Miller’s ﬁ  rst off-the-
ﬁ  eld issue either. He is suspend-ed for the Gators' season opener against Michigan Sept. 2 along with six others players for report-edly misusing school-issued funds.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 
UPD: Florida football players cited on marijuana complaint
Gators back in O'Dome tonight for season opener vs. No. 1 Texas  Robinson
 Miller
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 16
Skyler
Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebronSkyler the Creator / Opinion
Alligator File Photo
"Finally, " Rhamat Alhassan (left) said. T onight's game is her ﬁ  rst in the O'Connell Center since its remodeling.FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Pick up your
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Tonight’s clash at Dizney Sta-
dium will feature two of the most 
talented rosters in collegiate wom-en’s soccer as No. 1 Stanford (2-0) travels to No. 8 Florida (2-0).
The match, kicking off at 5 p.m., 
will serve as a rematch from a year ago, when the two heavyweights 
met as top-10 opponents in Palo 
Alto, California.
Last season’s contest saw the 
Cardinal take a 1-0 victory in over-time, following a trend of Stanford narrowly getting the better of the Gators. The Cardinal are 4-0-1 all-time against UF. But four of the ﬁ  ve meetings have spilled into overtime.Despite losing such tight match-
es to Stanford in the past, UF coach Becky Burleigh is excited about the opportunity that playing the na-tion’s top ranked team brings.
“We’ve had some great battles 
with them,” Burleigh said. “That’s 
a team we love to play because we 
feel that we bring out the best in each other. So we’re looking for-ward to that.”
This year’s battle looks to be no 
different from years’ past, especially in the midﬁ  eld. Three midﬁ  elders taking part in tonight’s match have been named to the Missouri Athletic 
Club’s Hermann Trophy watch list, 
the highest individual honor in col-legiate women’s soccer.
UF’s Gabby Seiler is the lone 
Gator on the list and is one of the most crucial pieces of Florida’s at-tack. The redshirt senior, who wears the captain’s armband for UF, is a versatile player who can be difﬁ  cult to defend.
“She’s one of those players that’s 
capable of playing pretty much ev-
erywhere,” Burleigh said of her cap-
tain. “I think it just gives our team more versatility when we have somebody like that.”
Seiler, who was named to the 
All-SEC First Team a season ago, already leads her team in goals with two in as many games, play-ing everywhere from center back to 
attacking midﬁ  elder in the process.
The other two midﬁ  elders fea-
tured on the MAC’s Hermann watch 
list come from a Stanford side that has posted two players on the list for the third consecutive season.
Cardinal midﬁ  elder Andi Sul-
livan has made the preseason list each of the last two seasons, ﬁ  nish-ing as a ﬁ  nalist for the 2016 Her-mann Trophy. 
The senior ﬁ  nished last season 
with career highs in goals (11), as-sists (7) and points (29).
Alongside Sullivan in the mid-
ﬁ  eld is sophomore Tierna Davidson. While Davidson didn’t bounce off of the stat sheet like Sullivan last year and only registered two goals and two assists, she played in all 21 of the Stanford’s matches as a fresh-
man. Davidson’s contributions last 
season were enough to place her on the 2016 All-Pac-12 Second Team and the 2016 Pac-12 All-Freshman team.Yet the quality of Stanford’s 
midﬁ  eld won’t be the only major obstacle the Gators must overcome if they are to see victory over the Cardinal.
Florida has been without its start-
ing goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese, 
who played every match for UF a 
season ago. Marckese suffered a hand injury just before the start of the season, thus passing responsi-bilities in net onto sophomore Susi Espinoza.
Espinoza has yet to face a shot-
on-goal in Florida’s ﬁ  rst two match-es and will receive her ﬁ  rst true test 
tonight when the match with Stan-
ford kicks off. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org 
 Gators look to beat No. 1 Stanford tonight for ﬁ  rst timeBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer 
Malik Zaire worked with Flor-
ida’s ﬁ  rst-team offense during the team’s open portion of practice on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Luke Del Rio did. And on the day before that, 
who knows? Because while there 
was no way to check since practice was closed, it doesn’t seem to matter to coach Jim McElwain who’s taking the ﬁ  rst-team reps. 
Every day, Zaire, Del Rio or 
Feleipe Franks take their turn with the ﬁ  rst-team offense. And with No. 17 UF’s season opener against Michi-
gan looming Sept. 2, McElwain said 
he’s ﬁ  ne with that. 
“You’re going to see a bunch 
of them in there playing,” he said Wednesday. “I mean, the three guys have done a really good job.”When asked if he was concerned 
about not having a starting quar-terback less than two weeks away from facing the No. 11 Wolverines, he said not at all. When asked if the number needs to be reduced to two or to one in the coming weeks, he 
offered little insight. 
“Actually,” he said, “I think the 
song says one is the loneliest num-
ber, right?”
This could be calculated on McEl-
wain’s part. Entering Florida’s spring game, he was adamant that Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask were compet-ing at nearly the same level. As the 
game got closer, he said one of them 
was beginning to separate, though he wouldn’t say who and maintained that both would see signiﬁ  cant time. 
Franks attempted 14 passes with 
the ﬁ  rst-team offense in that game. Trask attempted two. That calls to mind something McElwain said at Florida’s media day on  Aug. 2. 
“Let’s call it the art of poker,” he 
said. “Whatever hand you’re given, you ﬁ  gure out how to play that hand. Sometimes you’ve got to bluff.”
Whether he’s blufﬁ  ng or not, it 
seems like the answer may not be 
known until the game. And McEl-
wain isn’t the only one keeping quiet.
“I ain’t got one clue,” receiver 
Freddie Swain said when asked who’s been the best of the trio. 
McElwain appears to feel the 
same way. He said each has certain strengths, and depending on the situ-
ation, each could be called on. 
“Will all play? I don’t know yet,” 
McElwain said. “Will a couple of 
them play? I don’t know yet.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org  McElwain provides no clarity on quarterback competition
SOCCEREthan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain has yet to make clear which of his top three QBs 
—  Luke Del Rio (left), Malik Zaire (right) and Feleipe Franks — will start.16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 2017
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 21 thru 
Friday August 25
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
system, and they’re the brightest girls. They get 
everything so quickly in practice, they’ve been a joy to be around and I can’t say enough posi-
tive things about the group.”
After facing off against No. 1 Texas, the 
Gators will play No. 5 Nebraska on Saturday to 
ﬁ  nish the VERT Challenge. 
“These are two teams whose rosters are 
ﬁ  lled with All-Conference, All-American, High School All-Americans-type talent,” Wise said. “They’re very, very deep and very talented.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org VOLLEYBALL,  from pg 14UF to play Texas
ond game of the season. Being the sports 
expert I thought I was, I wrote the team off a bit in my mind, believing they were overrated after a sloppy performance.
Oh, how naïve I was. The Gators pro-
ceeded to win 12 in a row and 14 of their last 15 games before heading into the NCAA Tournament.
The amount of excitement and near-
perfect play I watched in those 15 contests made me appreciate the game on an en-tirely new level.
Rhamat Alhassan and Rachael Kramer 
dominated the middle. Alex Holston and Carli Snyder hit the ball with such force and tenacity, ﬁ  nding the tiniest of open-ings to exploit opposing teams.
Caroline Knop shined with her person-
ality, demeanor and key defensive plays nearly every game. And Allie Monserez led the nation with her pinpoint set-ups, helping the team ﬂ  ourish on offense.
Only Holston is gone from the roster, 
and while the Gators have a large void to 
ﬁ  ll in her absence, it’s hard to think that 
Wise won’t ﬁ  nd another player to rise up.
Shainah Joseph saw plenty of action 
and looked good on many occasions. Paige Hammons is one of the top recruits in the nation. The list goes on with prom-ising, exciting talent.
I know that we’re all ready to see how 
the football team does. But can a program that’s been so prominent for so long get some more oomph behind it?
For the second year in a row, Florida 
will open their season with a matchup against a top-ranked opponent with the No. 1 Texas Longhorns heading to the O’Dome.  
I’m not saying become a season tick-
et holder or a volleyball nut. But if you 
can, get a game or two under your belt. 
They’re exciting and usually pretty quick, considering how often the Gators over-whelm their opponents.
You’ll thank me when you do.
Look out for Skyler Lebron's next col-
umn  on Sept. 4. You can follow him on 
COLUMN,  from pg 14 Volleyball team returns all but one playerBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
In the inaugural draft of the 
Women’s Professional Lacrosse 
League, four former Gators were 
selected alongside two current 
assistant coaches.
The league, which is set to de-
but in the summer of 2018, will 
feature five teams and had 100 
women drafted on Wednesday.
Former Gators players will 
represent four of the five teams in 
the league, starting with defend-
er Caroline Fitzgerald and mid-
fielder Nicole Graziano, who will 
suit up for the New York Fight in 2018. The duo played together at UF from 2014 to 2016, where they 
went a combined 51-11 and led 
the Gators to an NCAA Tourna-
ment quarterfinals appearance in 2014.
Midfielder Lauren Lea, who 
graduated in 2016, was drafted 
by the Philadelphia Fire. Lea was 
a team captain in her senior year at Florida, where she finished her career with 55 goals and 50 as-
sists.
“Very grateful for the oppor-tunity to play for @Philly_Fire,” 
Lea said on Twitter. “It’s always 
an honor to represent the Gator 
Nation in the @prowomenslax league.”
After spending two seasons 
with the Long Island Sound in the United Women’s Lacrosse League, second-year assistant coach Taryn VanThof will play for the New England Command as a midfielder.
Attacker Mollie Stevens and 
newly-hired assistant coach Na-dine Hadnagy round out the Florida draftees, as they will represent the Upstate Pride. Ste-vens came off a record-setting year where she recorded career-highs in goals (59), assists (16), points (75), ground balls (48), draw controls (106) and caused turnovers (23). Her draw control total is the highest in UF program history. 
A league showcase game is 
scheduled for Sept. 30 and will feature a first glimpse of what the WPLL will look like.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  Six Gators players, coaches picked in inaugural pro draft
Alligator File Photo
Former Gator Mollie Stevens was one of the Gators players selected on Wednesday night.