We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorTHURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
Juilliard School
Gainesville dancer one of just 24 students accepted, pg. 3
“General Gaines”
Historical lion statue named in museum contest,  pg. 4UF baseball to face Kentucky this 
weekend
Florida is looking for its ﬁ  rst SEC title since 
2014, pg. 16By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Veterinary Emergency 
Treatment Service responded 
to a call Saturday in north-west Gainesville to rescue a 1,200-pound cow that got stuck in mud.
Brandi Phillips, a UF VETS 
team member, said the cow, Dixie, wandered off from her owners’ pasture Friday evening. Dixie had gone about 200 yards from the pasture before getting stuck in a swampy area.
The owners knew something 
was wrong when they heard Di-
xie’s calf calling for her, Phillips 
said. The owners attempted to look for Dixie, but since it was dark outside, it was hard to see.
The owners found Dixie stuck 
in the mud at about 9:30 a.m. Saturday, Phillips said. The UF VETS team arrived at the scene at about 1 p.m. after receiving 
a call from the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
“She had already been in the 
hole for over 12 hours at that point,” Phillips said. “We were By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Fewer than 200 yards away 
from an elementary school, a 
Gainesville man survived a gun-
shot wound to the face Tuesday. 
Jakesha Janay Haynes, 24, is 
accused of shooting Chrishaune 
Latez Lee inside her living room at 
Village Forest Green Apartments, according to a Gainesville Police 
report. The apartment complex, located at 3101 NE 15th St., is di-
rectly across the street from Mar-
jorie Kinnan Rawlings Elementary School. 
Rodricas Jovan Young, Lee’s 
cousin and Haynes’ boyfriend, told police the situation began 
when he and Haynes started ar-
guing. According to the report, 
Lee interrupted the argument and 
asked Haynes, “Why are you so 
mean and talk trash?” 
Lee, who is in his 20s, told po-
lice that Haynes then retrieved a Cobra .380 semi-automatic from 
her bedroom and proceeded to ar-
gue with him while waving the gun in his face, according to the report. 
Lee told police she then shot him 
in the nose at close range. 
After responding to the scene, 
detectives got a hold of the weap-
on, identiﬁ  ed Haynes and got Lee 
transported to the hospital imme-
diately, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben Tobias said. “The victim’s going to sur-
vive,” Tobias said. 
Haynes told police the bul-
let went off because Lee pushed the gun out of his face while they 
argued, according to the report. 
She told police that immediately after the shooting, she drove Lee 
and Young to the 
Gainesville Fire 
Rescue Station on 900 NE Wal-
do Road so Lee 
could get medi-
cal attention. 
Haynes then 
drove back to her apartment, 
hid the gun in her neighbor’s apartment and attempted to clean Lee’s blood from her apartment 
and outdoor sidewalk with bleach 
to cover up evidence, according to 
the report. 
Haynes faces charges of aggra-
vated battery with a deadly weap-on and tampering with evidence, 
according to the report. Haynes 
was released from the Alachua 
County Jail on Wednesday night 
on a $55,000 bond.
About two hours after the 
shooting, residents of the apart-ment complex stood outside their 
front doors and watched from afar 
as police remained outside Build-
ing N, the site of the shooting. 
Residents said they were surprised  GPD: Local man 
shot in the face
Haynes
SEE GUNSHOT,  PAGE 5 UF VETS rescues 1,200-pound cow 
 KAREN CLARKE, THE FORMER AS-
SISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, WILL 
TAKE THE POSITION IN JUL Y.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After more than half a year of search-
ing for a new superintendent for Alachua 
County Public Schools, some community 
members are unhappy with the outcome.
In a 4-to-1 vote Tuesday night, the Ala-
chua County School Board appointed for-
mer Assistant Superintendent Karen Clarke as head superintendent. Leanetta McNealy was the only board member to oppose Clarke, giving her vote to one of the other ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nal candidates: Ronald “Scott” Fritz, 
the chief of staff for Teaching, Leading and 
Learning in the Osceola County School Dis-trict.
McNealy told the board she felt ap-
pointing Clarke is both a waste of time and money, since she could’ve assumed the role back in June 2016 after former super-intendent Owen Roberts resigned.
“Why would we sit up here and make 
this kind of decision tonight when we could have been so much further along back in June?” she said at the Tuesday meeting. “I don’t know if the citizenry of this great community will understand it either.”
During the public input segment of 
the meeting, 11 community members ad-dressed the board. Six openly endorsed Fritz for the superintendent position.
Only one endorsed Clarke for the posi-
tion.
“I think they made a huge mistake,” said 
Addison Staples, a 34-year-old Gainesville father of two. “I’m disturbed that they’re basically not listening to the cries of the 
community.”
Staples, the executive director for the Aces in Motion youth outreach program, 
said he feels the board has given up on the No.1 issue facing the school system: the disparity between Gainesville’s white and 
black students. 
Staples lays within east Gainesville’s 
failing schools and the racial segregation 
present between magnet and public pro-
grams within schools in west Gainesville.
“The kids are failing, and there’s no 
shot of them getting into secondary educa-
tion,” Staples said. “It’s a majority, and it should a minority.” Alachua County School Board hires new superintendentCourtesy to the Alligator 
Dixie, a 1,200 pound cow, got stuck in mud after escaping from 
her pasture on Friday evening. Luckily, UF’s Veterinary Emergen-cy Treatment Service, or VETS, came to her rescue.
SEE COW,  PAGE 5
SEE SCHOOL,  PAGE 5“She had already been in 
the hole for over 12 hours 
at that point,” Phillips said. 
“W e were worried about 
things like dehydration, 
hypothermia and shock.” 
Brandi Phillips
UF VETS team memberCRIME
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 147WHAT’S HAPPENING?
In John and William Bartram’s 
wake
The Matheson History Museum 
is excited to welcome author 
and outdoor adventure guide Lars Andersen and Putnam County Bartram Trail creators 
Sam Carr and Dean Campbell 
today at 6 p.m. They will be discussing John and William Bartram’s travels down the St. Johns River more than 250 
years ago. This program coin-
cides with the Matheson’s cur-rent exhibit, “River of Dreams: The St. Johns and Its Springs.” 
John and William Bartram, 
father and son, traveled the St. Johns River in 1765. They made drawings and wrote viv-id descriptions of all that they 
saw of La Florida, or Spanish 
Florida. The panelists will explore this rich history and share how paddlers and hikers 
can recreate their journey on 
the Bartram Trails in Putnam County, Alachua County and other areas the Bartrams vis-ited. 
‘River of Dreams’
The Matheson History Museum’s new exhibition, 
“River of Dreams: The St. 
Johns and Its Springs,” runs from now until June 24. This original exhibition examines Floridians’ past, present and 
future relationship with the 
St. Johns River and its springs. The exhibition and all related programs are free and open to 
the public. The exhibition in-
cludes original work by pho-tographer Anne Ledbetter and Bruce Mozert; artifacts from Kingsley Plantation; a model 
of the Silver Glen Springs shell 
mound; documents and imag-es on loan from UF, Smathers Library, Special & Area Studies 
Collections, and the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper project; and images of the St. Johns River, Ocklawaha River and Silver Springs from the 
Matheson’s photographic, ste-
reographic and postcard col-lections. It will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. For more in-
formation, visit mathesonmu-
seum.org/events-1.html.‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The exhi-bition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popular street 
artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva 
explores abstract photography in the study of urban art. The show will include abstract pho-tographs of layers on the 34th 
Street Wall, fallen paint chips 
of different sizes and other arti-facts. An opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. 
Libby Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. For more infor-mation, please visit arts.ufl.
edu/university-galleries.
Lubee Bat Conservancy open 
houseIn honor of Endangered Species 
Day, the Lubee Bat Conservancy will host its Open House/Open Wings event Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. The entrance fee 
is $5 per person, and children 
ages 4 and under get in for free. Guests will also have a chance to listen to educational talks, 
check out native bat houses, 
talk to experts on installation and exclusion and view the bats playing with numerous toys. The event is great for all 
ages.
GatorNights ft. Lakin
GatorNights hopes you’re sail-ing smoothly through your 
Summer classes, Gators. Invite some shipmates to GatorNights on Friday as you create a mes-sage in a bottle or win the 
small boat race competition. 
Experience another world with virtual reality or test your knowledge at some pirate triv-
ia. You may even be greeted by 
Captain Jack Sparrow himself. Come grab some free food, and enjoy a live acoustic perfor-mance from guest artist Lakin. 
The featured film this night is 
"Logan," showing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always 
free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.International Dancing
Enjoy learning short dances from around the world in a 
cheerful environment for fun 
and to exercise. The event is Friday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Unitarian Universalist 
Fellowship of Gainesville, lo-
cated at 4225 NW 34th St.. The price is $4 for general admis-sion and $1 for students. 
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s Comedy Boom features live stand-up comedy every 
Wednesday night. Local come-
dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m., and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will 
accompany the show.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
Gatormania 
The largest Summer event on 
campus, Gatormania 2017, will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. on the 
North Lawn. Celebrate Summer B 
with free food, giveaways, inﬂ  at-
able fun and live performances 
showcasing a variety of student 
organizations and campus part-
ners. Don’t miss this opportunity 
to ﬁ  nd your involvement niche. 
The event is hosted by the In-
volvement Team, the ambassa-
dors of the Department of Student 
Activities and Involvement. For 
more information, visit studentin-
volvement.uﬂ  .edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 147
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  65°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez , Carter Page, Nicole T anner
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren Johnson THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
A teenage dancer who has 
logged hundreds of hours dancing 
in Gainesville was presented with a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity: The Juilliard School.
Mia Caceres-Nielsen, a profes-
sional dancer with Dance Alive Na-tional Ballet Company in Gainesville, was one of 12 women and 24 danc-ers in the world to be offered a spot in the 2021 class of Juilliard’s Dance Program in Manhattan, New York.
Since she was ﬁ  ve years old, Ca-
ceres-Nielsen has trained in ballet, jazz, tap and more.
“It’s a dream to be able to go to 
Juilliard,” the 17-year-old said. “Juil-
liard is a dream, that’s the only way I 
can describe it.”
Caceres-Nielsen, who has been 
with Dance Alive since 2011, is an only child and was raised by her single mother, Monica Sue Nielsen, in Hypoluxo, Florida. For the past six years, at least once or twice a week, the pair has made the eight-hour 
commute to Gainesville and back so 
Caceres-Nielsen could dance.
Dance Alive National Ballet, 1325 
NW Second St., is a professional bal-let company composed of 15 profes-sional ballerinas from around the world who tour in select cities across the globe, said Kim Tuttle, the execu-
tive artistic director of Dance Alive. 
Caceres-Nielsen is the only dancer from the company to ever be ac-cepted into the prestigious Juilliard, Tuttle said. 
Since Caceres-Nielsen began 
dancing with Dance Alive, Tuttle said she noticed the dedication and commitment matched by her mother, 
who has worked multiple jobs and 
put more than 260,000 miles on her car to support her daughter’s dream.
“The most incredible thing about 
her is her and her mom,” Tuttle said. “Her mom would sleep in the car while she rehearsed, and then she would drive back. It’s a real example 
of what you can accomplish with pa-
rental support.” 
Caceres-Nielsen also attributes a 
large portion of her acceptance into Juilliard to her mother’s support throughout the years.
“She is willing to put aside every-
thing in order for me to pursue my passion,” Caceres-Nielsen said.
Although she said she’s received 
generous scholarships from Juilliard and her high school, there is still a substantial unmet amount needed to get her to her dream school. With an estimated cost of nearly $70,000 a year, this presents a challenge and ﬁ  -nancial burden on Caceres-Nielsen’s mother, her sole provider. 
The pair set up a GoFundMe page 
April 27 in an effort to fundraise the 
remaining amount. With their goal 
set at $22,000, Nielsen said they have raised $3,365 so far. Caceres-Nielsen has also taken initiative on her own to diminish the ﬁ  nancial burden. She said she’s continuing to apply for scholarships and will be a part of the work study program at Juilliard. 
The mother-daughter duo both 
acknowledge the sacriﬁ  ces and de-termination in one another to work toward achieving one common goal. 
“She’s trying to earn as much as 
she can,” Nielsen said. “We’ll make it happen. You just don’t say no to Juilliard.”
WILDLIFE
CROSSINGWelcom/e.end Bac/k.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s ﬁrst issue of the fall semester. 
Place the same ad in both our New Student and Welcome Back editions and take advantage of our 10% pickup discount.
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep Toda/y.end!
352-376-4482 · Alligator Advertising ·  advertising@alligator.org
Courtesy to the Alligator
Above: Mia Caceres-Nielsen, 17, dancing at the Kaufman studio at the Glorya Kaufman Dance Studio 
at The Juilliard School in New York City. Right: Caceres-Nielsen, who was one of only 12 female danc-
ers to be accepted into The Juilliard School’s 2021 dance program, performing at the Phillips Center for Performing Arts for Dance Alive National Ballet’s 2016 production of “Dracula. ”
Teen from Gainesville ballet company accepted to Juilliard
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
HIPPODROME CINEMA
HIPPODROME CINEMA .25 SE 2ND PL G AINESVILLE
CALL 352.375.4 477 OR VISIT THEHIPP.ORG
By Jessica Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
HE WAS NAMED ‘GENERAL 
GAINES’ AFTER THE CITY’S 
NAMESAKE.
After more than 100 nameless years, a his-
toric lion statue in Gainesville has been given 
a name.
Before Monday, the newly named “General 
Gaines” was known only as “Lion A” — which 
is one of two copper lion statues that originally 
sat at the 1885 Alachua County Courthouse.
“General Gaines’” twin, “Lion B,” currently 
resides in the Alachua County Administration Building and is still without a name.
The Matheson History Museum brought 
“General Gaines” to the museum in April, where he will remain on a two-year loan, said Peggy Macdonald, the museum’s executive di-
rector. The statue is on loan from the Alachua 
County Commission and the Alachua County Historical Society, Macdonald said.
Macdonald said when the antique statue ar-
rived, faculty decided to hold a contest to deter-mine its name.
Lynn Aylward’s entry, “General Gaines,” 
was announced as the lion’s ofﬁ  cial name on Facebook on Monday. The name pays hom-
age to the city’s namesake, General Edmund P. 
Gaines, an army ofﬁ  cer who fought in multiple wars, including the War of 1812.
“There’s been a lot of history with both lo-
cal and national impact,” Macdonald said after recounting that the courthouse was visited by both Booker T. Washington and William Jen-
nings Bryan.
Macdonald said the process of acquiring the 
statue took several years and multiple letters to 
the county from people who felt the museum would be an optimal home for the lion.
“The people who come to the Matheson are 
already interested in history and are more likely to be interested in the lion than people who maybe go to a county building where they’re 
there on ofﬁ  cial business,” Macdonald said.
The two statues were perched atop the court-
house until it was demolished in 1961. Howev-
er, several pieces were saved, including the two lions and the clock from the clock tower.
Before “General Gaines” was moved to the 
museum, he and his twin were restored by local artist Tom Thomas. He said the statues, which are about six feet long, were dirty and 
had crumpled backs.
“One lion had some toes which were no lon-
ger attached, and one lion was missing his tail,” 
Thomas wrote in an email.
Using epoxy and solder, Thomas said he was 
able to rejoin the lion’s toes and create a new tail by forming a mold with the one existing tail.
Although the statue has only been inside the 
museum for a couple weeks, Macdonald said 
the piece has already been a hit for visitors, 
partly because of its size.
“It’s just a perfect opportunity to educate 
people about the past and pique their interest,” she said. “This isn’t just a small document or photo. It’s a really large, ornate statue.”  Historic lion statue given name after more than 100 years
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Matheson History Museum recently held a contest to decide a name for “Lion 
A, ” which used to be a part of the 1885 Alachua County Courthouse. After more than 100 years, he was ﬁ  nally given the name “General Gaines. ”
By David Street
Alligator Staff Writer 
Student Experience in the Re-
search University, a survey site 
geared toward undergraduate stu-dents, has been experiencing a low response rate this year.
At the second Student Senate meeting of the Summer, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs 
Kim Pace gave a presentation on 
SERU’s low response rate. 
She said in 2015, SERU had a 
response rate of 34 percent from UF students, but in 2017, it had a rate of 16 percent. 
“SERU launched right after 
Spring Break, and from pretty ear-ly on, we noticed that the results were a little bit lower than in past 
years,” Pace said.
Noelle Mecoli, the associate di-
rector of analytic services at UF’s 
Ofﬁ  ce of Institutional Planning and Research, said she believes the biggest reason for SERU’s low 
response rate is because the sur-
vey is too long. “Does the average student have 
a full 25 minutes to dedicate to 
this survey?” she said. 
Pace said that while she regrets 
the survey being too long, it is the 
best way to get the most informa-tion out of students.
She said she believes one way 
to get more students to partici-pate in this survey is through cash prizes.
“If we had more money to in-
centivize it, I think that would hopefully make students feel like they had a better chance of getting some sort of reward for their time that they’ve taken for (SERU),” she said.
                                @dstreet177   
 Low response rate to SERU brought up at Student Senateworried about things like dehydration, hy-
pothermia and shock.” 
UF VETS had to work quickly and de-
vise a strategy in order to get Dixie out of the mud, Phillips said. The four UF VETS team members, alongside volunteers from ACSO and Dixie’s owners, were able to get Dixie out of the mud 1 1/2 hours after ar-riving on scene. 
Sara Almcrantz, a UF 4th year in the 
college of veterinary medicine, said she performed the exam on Dixie once she was pulled out of the mud, and she had no in-juries. 
The 25-year-old has been involved with UF VETS for about four years, but this was her ﬁ  rst time helping rescue an animal in distress. 
“It’s been a really exciting and unique 
experience as a veterinary student,” she said. “It’s allowed me to explore different areas of veterinary medicine.” 
Phillips said the rescue was a team ef-fort on a lot of different fronts.
“We’re always grateful to have a happy 
ending. Especially the day before Mother’s 
Day, being able to reunite a momma cow 
with her calf is very rewarding,” she said.
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org when GPD and a camera crew 
from WCJB-TV 20 arrived in their complex. 
They said loud bangs from 
construction workers drilling into 
the roof of Building N mufﬂ  ed the 
sound of the shooting. 
“Everybody was in their 
house, we can’t hear anything with all that,” a woman, who 
wished to remain anonymous, said as she pointed up toward the construction. 
The two roof workers, who 
also wished to remain anony-mous, said they heard a loud 
noise but assumed it was noth-ing. Some residents said they 
hadn’t even heard the gunﬁ  re. 
Two buildings down from the 
site of the shooting, a group of 
about seven young men chatted 
by their apartment stairwell, un-
aware of what happened just two 
hours earlier. 
“That’s crazy as f---,” one of 
the young men said when he heard about the shooting. 
The woman said in the 10 
years she’s been living in the neighborhood, she rarely sees 
shootings similar to the one that occurred Tuesday.
“I think there’s been one or 
two, but it’s been years ago,” the 
woman said. “Nothing’s been 
happening out here recently. Ev-
erything’s been ﬁ  ne.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org While he doesn’t know Clarke 
personally, Staples said he feels 
she ultimately is part of a system that’s failing black students in the 
county.
“I don’t think she has experi-
ence in hardly any of the things 
we have problems with,” he said. “The status quo is not OK.”
April Tisher, a parent who en-
dorsed Clarke during Tuesday’s meeting told the board that she’s happy with the work Clarke has done in the county so far.
“I feel like we need somebody 
who is committed to Alachua County, who’s not going to leave us in a few years for other op-portunities,” Tisher said. “I think 
she’s done a great job.”
As of press time, Clarke could 
not be reached for comment.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
PhotographersOPEN HOUSE
Fri., Jan. 13, from 2 to 5 p.m.
Please send resume 
and clips to mvossler@alligator.organd editor@alligator.orgTHE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO 
FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITION:
GUNSHOT,  from pg. 1The man survived the gunshot wound
SCHOOL,  from pg. 1Some unhappy with hire
UF Veterinary Emergency Treatment Service, or VETS, team members help Dixie out of the mud and onto a “rescue glide” to save her. The team was able to get her 
out of the mud 1 1/2 hours after arriving on scene. She was stuck in mud for 12 hours but did not sustain any injuries.
COW,  from pg. 1Dixie was stuck in the mud for nearly 12 hours before her rescue
Courtesy to the Alligator Courtesy to the AlligatorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialTHURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
ColumnDear Mr. President, 
we deserve better
We wouldn’t exactly call it a surprise that President 
Donald Trump is a less than trustworthy commander in chief. His entire campaign leading up to his victory was filled with verbal falsehoods that spewed out of his mouth like pellets out of a revolver. Within a few 
months of his campaign, lying appeared to be second nature to the giant Cheeto vying for control of our country.
Much to our dismay, the lying didn’t stop once he was sworn 
into office. It only got worse.
On Tuesday, news broke that Trump had asked former FBI 
Director James Comey in February to stop the investigation of Trump’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn.
Before Comey was canned, he started to keep memos of all 
his meetings with the president. His memos became a paper 
trail of evidence to help solidify the claims that Trump has at-
tempted to influence an ongoing investigation. Comey reported that the president told him, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go,” among other encouraging statements. The White House, however, denied the series of events described in Comey’s memos.
At this point, we aren’t too shocked that yet another discrep-
ancy has come out of the White House. It seems every scandal, or near scandal, is nothing but an overdrawn “he said, she said” 
debate. While that’s fine in a high-school cafeteria, we are sick 
of seeing that type of problem management in the Capitol.
We thus pose our dear president with this question: Mr. 
President, when will the lying stop?
Reporters have dubbed the most recent Trump snafu to be 
something close to the Watergate scandal of former President Richard Nixon’s administration. The White House has fought back, of course, blaming the dishonest media (@ us next time?) for continuously poking at “nonissues.” Just as Nixon’s cabinet 
had, Trump and his colleagues are blaming the media and al-
leging innocence.
America, however, isn’t so convinced by his protective 
claims. We still have questions that need answers, and we can’t trust that what comes out of the White House is going to be true.
With this new lie surfacing, thanks to Comey’s memos, we 
further question the validity of Trump’s claims on his involve-ment with Russia. Vladimir Putin has even come to bat for 
Trump, offering up transcripts of meetings between the two in 
order to prove Trump’s innocence. Too bad we trust Vlad about as much as we trust Donny.
We hope Comey’s memos are able to help us figure out what 
exactly Trump has going on with Russia and whether he did, in fact, leak classified information to the shirtless equestrian of the East. What we are most upset about, however, is that this is even something that needs investigation. We should be able to have full faith in our president, not have to worry about his 
collaborations with communist nations.
He continually fires those who challenge him, and it seems 
every day we are alerted to yet another sketchy scandal that 
leaves us questioning the mental stability of our nation’s leader. So far, he seems to be unpredictable, erratic and overall unfit to hold so much power.
We believe, to put it bluntly, the president needs to man up. 
He needs to stop hiding behind others: his advisers, his depart-ment heads, journalists, his daughter and his own citizens. He 
needs to put more thought into his actions and consider the 
consequences of them. He needs to start accepting blame for his mistakes and promise change for himself and for us. As he con-tinues to ignore his mistakes and flaws, Trump further distances himself from being the president our great nation deserves. We deserve better than a president we cannot trust.I am interning for an organization that 
helps alleviate global poverty called The 
Borgen Project. The project, according to 
their website, “is an innovative, national 
campaign that works with U.S. leaders 
to improve their response to the global pov-
erty crisis.” Or, in other words, it is prob-
ably the opposite of what you’re imagining. 
Typical poverty relief groups are “boots on the 
ground” types of organizations that directly 
improve the living conditions of communi-
ties through physical projects, such as building wells, 
buildings, etc. However, The Borgen Project focuses on 
directly alleviating global poverty by lobbying represen-
tatives in government to vote on policies that would in-
crease the budget for financial aid.  
You may be thinking, “The U.S. is in more debt than I 
can even count to. We can’t waste money helping some-one else out when we need to help ourselves.” Well, you 
have a point, but please relax, and I will explain how 
this actually helps the U.S.  
The Borgen Project and many representatives, gen-
erals, and other leaders who support the organization 
have mentioned that the concept of financial aid isn’t 
really aid but more so an investment, because downsiz-
ing global poverty helps create U.S. jobs.  
Essentially, the U.S. isn’t the center of the world, and 
95 percent of the world’s consumers live outside of the U.S. That accounts for $5 trillion in purchasing power. 
If more countries improve living conditions — access to 
food, shelter, water — their citizens will eventually tran-
sition from barely surviving to becoming consumers, 
and if the U.S. is directly helping them, then it gives us a good name and a future business partner. If you think 
this is ideological bull----, well listen to this recent ex-ample of Indonesia. Back in November 2011, Boeing an-nounced its largest deal during that time, 230 
jets. People were baffled to hear that it wasn’t 
a North American or European airline, but in-
stead Indonesia’s Lion Air. Indonesia used to 
be one of the poorest countries, but the U.S. 
and its allies used foreign aid to improve the living conditions of Indonesia, directly result-
ing in a general improvement of living stan-
dards and a rising middle class. This expand-
ing middle class led to increased commercial 
travel, and Indonesia needed jets to meet the 
demand. By the way, if you’re wondering how much Boeing and the U.S. (since Boeing is a U.S. company 
and a large source of our exports) got from that deal, 
those 230 jets cost $22 billion. And that’s not the only 
example. Some of our trading partners, including Ger-
many and South Korea, once received U.S. foreign aid.  
If you’re wondering why our focus at The Borgen 
Project is to increase the foreign aid budget, it may sur-prise you. Firstly, many people have this perception that 
the U.S. spends too much money on foreign aid, believ-
ing we spend about 25 percent. Well, that’s false. We 
spend less than .08 percent of the federal budget on for-
eign aid — or $30 billion a year. If that sounds like a lot, 
more than 50 percent of our discretionary spending is for 
the military accounting, totaling $663 billion. Secondly, the largest relief agency in the world, the World Food 
Programme, spends $4 billion annually, when the U.S. 
spends $6 billion per aircraft carrier. We have the fund-
ing available. It just depends how we chose to spend it. 
If you want more information on the organization, 
please visit, borgenproject.org for more details.  
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His 
column appears on Thursdays.Please support the fight against global poverty 
James 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Column
Finding the best playoff team to bandwagon
If you’re like the average sports 
fan, any leagues' playoffs are a confusing time for you. As 
more teams fall throughout the 
postseason, you ﬁ  nd yourself 
not really caring about many of the matchups. Either your team has 
already been eliminated from the 
chase for this year’s championship, or you couldn’t care less about who wins. In case you ﬁ  nd yourself in this position, I’m about to tell you 
exactly who you should be rooting 
on for the rest of this year’s NBA playoffs.
That being said, we can already 
remove the two title favorites, the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers, from my “who you should root for” rankings be-cause, let’s be honest, hopping on 
one of the best teams’ bandwagon 
is one of the most annoying things you can do as a sports fan. With that in mind, a look at the remain-
ing two teams makes it clear which 
team you should support moving forward.
The San Antonio Spurs would 
be a great choice for anyone to 
support if they enjoy sports being 
played at an unathletic and funda-mental rhythm. In addition to their slow pace, they aren’t much fun to 
watch. They’ve won ﬁ  ve of the last 
18 championships, and I feel like it’s more fun to watch someone differ-ent win every now and then. On the bright side, they do have the NBA’s best and (in his own way) most en-tertaining coach, Gregg Popovich.  
Their best player, Kawhi Leon-
ard, just went down with a seem-ingly serious ankle injury because of what’s being referred to around the league as a “cheap play.” Losing 
Leonard makes the Spurs a huge un-
derdog against the Warriors in the Western Conference Finals, which adds reason to root for the Spurs. If you enjoy rhythmic basketball and 
uncomfortably short end-of-the-
quarter coach interviews, the Spurs are the way to go.
The Boston Celtics are a long-
term investment pick. If you’re only looking for a quick ﬁ  x because your team is out of the playoffs for the year, the Celtics could still be your 
team. The Celtics just ﬁ  nished win-
ning a huge game seven against the very pesky Washington Wizards. The Wizards have one of the best 
back courts in the entire NBA, and 
they matched up very well against 
Celtics star Isaiah Thomas. 
Thomas measures in at a mere 5’9,” which is reason enough to root 
for him. He’s 4-to-5 inches shorter than the average player at his po-
sition, yet he has still managed to 
play at an all-star level this season. He’ll spearhead a David vs. Goliath level matchup against Lebron James 
and the Cavaliers in the Eastern 
Conference Finals. 
Finally, the Celtics have the best 
remaining UF alumnus on their team. Al Horford was part of the 
Gators group that won back-to-
back collegiate titles in 2006 and 2007, making him a UF legend. The NBA championship has so far al-
luded Horford, but this could be the 
year he makes his ﬁ  rst NBA Finals. Stocked with Thomas, Horford and a plethora of role players who know 
how to step up in big moments, the 
Celtics are my “who you should root for” favorite. 
Derik Gillingham is a guest col-
umnist for the Alligator. He is a UF 
alumnus who graduated with a de-
gree in sport management.“Hopping on one of the best teams' 
bandwagon is one of the most annoying 
things you can do as a sports fan.”8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
LOCAL
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A center dedicated to sewing 
reusable feminine products for 
women in developing countries will open in Gainesville today.
The Alachua chapter of Days 
for Girls International, an orga-nization dedicated to educating women in developing countries and providing them with feminine products, helped to open the sew-ing center at 1731 NW Sixth St. 
Radha Selvester, the chair of the Alachua chapter of Days for 
Girls International, said the center 
is the second of its kind to ever be built in the U.S. It will give any-body the opportunity to stop by 
and help make feminine hygiene 
kits, she said.
In many developing countries, 
women don’t have access to femi-
nine products and will sometimes sit on cardboard as a way to cope, Selvester said. Because they don’t 
have easy access to these prod-
ucts, female students can miss 
weeks of school due to their pe-riod.
Selvester said Troop 733 ini-
tially set out to make 200 feminine hygiene kits to donate to women in South Sudan, calling the proj-
ect, “Mission Possible: Keep Girls 
in School. Period.”  
After having ﬁ  ve “sew-a-thon” 
events, Troop 733 met their goal 
in six months. At the sew-a-thons, the troop paired with women from the American Sewing Guild to 
learn how to sew and create the 
reusable kits, Selvester said. 
“In August or September, we got a whole packet of thank-you 
notes from the girls who received 
the kits,” she said. “I read all of them in one sitting with a box of tissues. We had made such a dif-
ference in these girls’ lives.” 
Because Selvester and Troop 
733 wanted to continue helping women in developing countries, 
they became Florida’s ﬁ  rst chap-ter of Days for Girls International. Since ofﬁ  cially becoming a chap-
ter in 2013, Selvester said Troop 
733 have helped women in coun-
tries including Kenya, Malawi and Peru.
The group will host a meeting 
in the brand new sewing center Monday for anyone looking to get involved in their mission. 
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie 
Darnell said the determination of 
the group’s members sets a stellar 
example for the community. 
“Girl Scout Troop 733 and Ms. 
Radha Selvester serve as inspira-
tion to girls everywhere,” Darnell 
wrote in an email.
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org 
 Alachua County’s Days for Girls opens sewing center
By Victoria Pavlock
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the past 10 years, UF has consistently 
raised $1 million a year for local charities 
across Alachua County.
But last year, for the ﬁ  rst time, the uni-
versity missed the mark.
The university raised about $980,000, 
which was a wake-up call for UF, said Kar-
en Thomas, a community relations special-
ist.
Thomas said nonproﬁ  t specialists in-
volved with UF’s Strategic Development Plan found that across the nation, charita-
ble funds were decreasing because of a new mindset in the younger generation.
“Millennials and young employees are 
not wanting to just give $5 a week from their paycheck,” she said. “They want to 
have more hands-on involvement in what 
they’re interested in.”
This month, UF launched Gators Volun-
teer, a website where people from the com-munity can ﬁ  nd information on approved charities, Thomas said.
Each organization in Gators Volunteer 
has its mission, opportunities, hours of availability and contact information listed 
on the website.Susan Crowley, UF’s assistant vice presi-
dent of community relations, said volun-
teers have the comfort of knowing that ev-ery organization in the program has been 
evaluated to ensure they are doing ethical 
work in the community.
“There are not too many problems 
that we have in our community that we don’t have someone on the campus who has some expertise in that area and who 
couldn’t bring all their years of study and 
students and graduate students to bear on that issue,” Crowley said.
She said the university may never reach 
the $1 million mark again, but it can make sure students connect their passion with 
something that can make a difference.
In the ﬁ  rst nine days since the website 
went live, they have had more than 3,000 page views, Crowley said.
Tammy Aagard, UF’s associate vice 
president for enrollment management, said she has volunteered at the Ronald McDon-
ald House every Wednesday night for the last year or so.
“The reason why I volunteer here is be-
cause it ﬁ  lls my bucket,” she said. “I enjoy the people here. I enjoy the families, and it 
just keeps me going throughout the rest of 
the week.”  UF starts volunteer website 
to connect the community
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer 
Sixty years ago, Burger King founders 
James McLamore and David Edgerton vis-
ited one of their Gainesville stores on 13th Street.
That day sparked the creation of the 
Whopper.
To celebrate, Quality Dining, Inc., the 
franchise owner for the Gainesville area, tore down the Burger King on Newberry Road and rebuilt it, complete with two drive-thru lanes, a mural commemorating the history of the Whopper and a Whop-per replica sticking out of the side of the building.
Daniel Fitzpatrick, Quality Dining’s 
CEO, said they plan to remodel the rest of the Burger King locations in Gainesville. 
“What a great thing it is to have some-
thing invented in your hometown that’s known all around the world,” he said. “It was the 60th year since the creation of the Whopper, so we wanted to do something really special and unique.”
Fitzpatrick said when McLamore and 
Edgerton visited the 13th Street Burger King in 1957, the restaurant wasn’t per-forming as they had anticipated, given that it was next to UF.“They noticed there was a competitor 
down the street with large, quarter-pound burgers,” Fitzpatrick said.
At the time, Burger King was using small 
patties for their burgers, he said. However, after seeing the success of the other restau-rant, they decided to serve up their own quarter-pound burgers. Fitzpatrick said unlike other restaurants, which normally cooked hamburgers on a griddle or stove, Burger King began to ﬂ  ame broil them. 
“Business turned around immediately,” 
Fitzpatrick said.
Gainesville residents said they were 
glad to see the return of the Burger King on Newberry Road. 
“We’re happy to see them come back, 
because we didn’t have one here for a long, long time,” Gainesville resident Jim Falkenburg said. “They did a great job, and we’re glad they’re back.”
Others commented on how many no-
table food chains, like Sonny’s BBQ, began in Gainesville. 
Charles Anderson, a Gainesville resident 
and Burger King customer, said he likes the design of the renovated restaurant. He said new stores are always great for the city.
“Gainesville is just kind of like a mecca 
for that kind of thing,” Anderson said. “I 
think the store looks great.”Local Burger King reopens 
for 60th anniversaryKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Bit Brigade to perform today
The band’s sound is inspired by video games, pg. 11The soundtrack to your summer 
Discover which podcasts you should be listening to, pg. 10THE SHOW WILL CELEBRATE HIS 
DEBUT EXTENDED PLAY.
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
From Tom Petty to Less Than Jake, 
many an artist have gone from humble 
Gainesville beginnings to international 
fame. While massive tours and sold-out 
crowds may be the norm for musicians nowadays, each and every one of them got their start in the local scene, opening for 
larger acts within their genre and slowly 
but surely gaining a fan base. 
For Michael Rizzo, known by his stage 
name Rezza, one could say he’s right in the middle of that journey. The hip-hop/
rap artist got his start in Gainesville years 
ago and just recently made the move to Or-lando. 
Rezza has opened for everyone from 
Waka Flocka Flame to Curren$y at High Dive, gaining recognition from UF students and Gainesville locals over the years.  
This Friday, Rezza will headline his ﬁ  rst 
ever show at High Dive to celebrate the 
release of his debut extended play, “The 
Ville.” 
“I’m excited, honestly, to be able to do 
that kind of headline show,” Rezza said. 
“In my years going to High Dive, I’ve al-
ways wanted to have my own thing.” 
Rezza got his start when he was 16 
while he was in high school. The now 23-year-old said he steadily began releas-
ing remixes of popular songs every week, 
and the “persistent rate” got people know-ing who he was. 
By his freshman year at Santa Fe Col-
lege, Rezza began opening for artists at High Dive. He said that over the course of about 15 shows, people at UF started to recognize him. 
“I would always introduce myself as 
an artist … because that’s what the ma-jority of people knew me as,” Rezza said. “My senior year people started calling me Rezza.” 
After getting his Associate of Arts degree 
at Santa Fe College in 2013, Rezza moved to Orlando, accepting a position with in-dependent music collective A.M.H., which stands for All My Homies. Rezza said the 
group has allowed him to hone his sound 
while providing constant support and men-torship for him.
Rezza said his debut EP, “The Ville,” 
is representative of his transition from Gainesville to Orlando. The six-song EP features an arc, with harder beats at the beginning that ﬂ  ow into a smoother fade-out toward the end. He said that the proj-
ect gives a timeline for how he came up in the local scene before moving away. 
Rezza said High Dive played a huge role 
in his development as a local artist. Pat 
Lavery, the facility and events manager at 
High Dive and owner of local promotion 
company Glory Days Presents, said the team at High Dive is proud of all Rezza has done throughout his music career so far.  
“It’s always incredibly satisfying to see 
an artist like this that you have worked with step by step along the way, who has been humble and worked hard, put in his time in the trenches, be rewarded for doing 
things the right way,” Lavery said. 
Lavery added that artists often want to 
“skip steps along the way” and jump into 
fame without thinking about what it actu-ally takes to get there. 
“Rezza has gotten to where he is by do-
ing it the right way and being a student 
of the music business,” he said. “We are 
proud of his accomplishments and honored to guide him along his journey as we host his release show.” 
Rezza’s EP release show will take place 
at High Dive on Friday from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets are $6 in advance and will be available for $8 at the door. 
Royal Fam, XII, Ralph Lorenzo, Sully 
Geez and Big Win will open the show. Rez-za said that he brought these artists along to represent a diverse group of sounds, 
which is sure to keep the show interesting. 
Many of these artists have worked with Rezza in the past and are also members of A.M.H. 
He added that attendees of Friday’s 
show might potentially receive exclusive content from the debut EP.  
“The Ville” will be ofﬁ  cially released 
May 31 and will be available on Sound-
Cloud, Spotify, Apple Music and Google 
Play.   Local artist Rezza to headline High Dive show
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Rezza, a hip-hop/rap artist who began his career in Gainesville, will head-
line his first ever show this Friday at High Dive to celebrate his debut ex-tended play. 
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219 CONCERT INFO
FRIDAY, MAY 19
Rezza’s EP release show will take place at High Dive on Friday from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets are $6 in advance and will be available for $8 at the door. 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgOrganic
Mildreds & New Deal Cafe
Mildreds: fresh, casual, quick lunch 
and dinner is great for date night! 
Check out our bar dinners at 7pm on 
Sat nights, Reserve at 352-371-1711 or 
mildredsbigcity@aol.com 
New Deal: UF beef burgers and roman 
pizzas with happy hour from 4-7pm dailyAmerican
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an 
impressive selection of organic vegan 
ice cream, baked goods, sandwiches, 
fair trade coffee, tea, organic beer 
and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-12am 
Sat&Sun 10am-12amFrozen Treats
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for the chef to put out 
nothing but goodness from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and 
local ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners and private 
parties for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-
9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372Italian
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup for a buck off! 
Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating.  
Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet 
operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late CoffeeTHE GUIDE TOBy Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Although summer is filled with 
new music releases to jam out to at 
the beach, on a road trip or what-ever you find yourself doing during the season, podcasts can also be a 
great addition to your playlist. Usu-
ally spanning over the course of mul-tiple episodes, podcasts are a perfect way to learn more about the world around you.
Whether you are interested in 
programming, politics or anything in between, there is a podcast for you. Here are a few that are worth a listen:
“Crash On My Couch”If you ever keep yourself up at 
night pondering the troubles of early adulthood — which cheese is best for a sandwich or what to do when faced with a bad-date dilemma — this pod-
cast is perfectly tailored for you.
The brainchild of YouTubers 
Arden Rose and Will Darbyshire, 
“Crash On My Couch” is aimed to-ward 20-somethings to share anec-dotes and enlighten listeners about the perils of being an “adult.”
The podcast consists of five epi-
sodes, covering a host of topics that 
include conspiracy theories, fetishes 
and plastic surgery. Listeners are able to send their burning questions to Rose and Darbyshire via email or by calling the show directly with their trials and tribulations, such as depression and love triangles.
As Rose said in the premiere epi-sode, “We’re fun and we’re quirky, so love us.” If you often find yourself asking, “Why am I thinking about 
this?,” this is definitely the podcast 
for you.
“My Dad Wrote a Porno”Yes, you read the title correctly. 
Jamie Morton, alongside co-hosts James Cooper and Alice Levine, spend each episode reading and ana-lyzing a chapter of Morton’s father’s pornographic novel. With each epi-
sode, Morton further discovers a side 
of his father no child would ever ex-pect to learn.
Inspired by the success and accep-
tance of E. L. James’ “Fifty Shades of Grey,” the 60-year-old author decid-ed to delve into the world of erotic fiction by self-publishing the novel.According to the initial episode, 
Morton’s father — whose pen name is Rocky Flintstone — wrote the 
novel “Belinda Blinked 1: A modern 
story of sex, erotica and passion” by drawing from his own fantasies.
The approach Morton has taken 
to reading his father’s erotic novel — by broadcasting it to a global au-dience — is entertaining and humor-ous. In a way, it is normalizing sex and making it approachable to listen-
ers.
Although we all hope to never be 
faced with this type of situation, “My 
Dad Wrote a Porno” is a great pod-cast if you’re looking for a laugh.
“Wait Wait… Don’t Tell Me!”The weekly NPR news quiz is a 
podcast for news-savvy listeners — regardless of political affiliation — to laugh at the world’s current events alongside host Peter Sagal and fea-
tured panelists.
“Wait Wait… Don’t Tell Me!,” 
tests listener’s knowledge on what is 
truly news and what they’ve made up.
In a time when the news can 
seem overwhelming, “Wait Wait… Don’t Tell Me!” is the perfect way to unwind while staying informed.
No matter the interest, from po-
litical to the weird and the wonky, there’s a podcast for everyone out there. With unique perspectives and captivating anecdotes, these pod-casts are certain to keep you listening all summer long.
Podcasts: the soundtrack to your summer ff the RecordTHURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off 
select wines by the glass, $5 select specialty cocktails, $1 off all 
beers; 3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south of Archer Road on 13th 
Street in the Shands Parking Garage. Private room available. Great 
for rehearsal dinners, student life organizations, and other group 
events. Always taking reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like us on 
Facebook and follow us on Instagram @bluegillqualityfoods for 
upcoming events and daily specials.Local
Ballyhoo Grille
Proudly serving Gainesville since 1998. We offer the most diverse options 
ranging from pasta, sandwiches, burgers, sushi, salads, ﬂ  atbreads, grill 
items, and fresh seafood. We also serve the best wine and beer in 
town. Happy Hour is from 2pm to 7pm daily, plus all night on Tuesdays 
and Wednesdays. If you are looking for a unique graduation meal, 
head over to Ballyhoo. We have great service and outdoor seating 
that can accommodate any graduation party for the student’s big 
day. Located at 3700 W University Ave. 325-373-0059 Bar & GrillDave’s New York Deli
A true NY Deli experience! Pastrami, Corned Beef, NY Bagels, Matzo Ball 
Soup and more. Ken Eats Gainesville says “It’s Fricken Delicious!” Open 
7 days a week. 4 miles west of the Oaks Mall, Tioga Town Center, 12921 
SW 1st rd, #105 davesnydeli.com 352-333-0291
 Now serving Beer, Wine & PizzaDeli
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, 
Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat. welcometocivilization.comWorldBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese 
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  Breakfast
Vegan2Go
We are a cruelty free restaurant featuring sandwiches, soups, 
Asian dishes, and desserts. Open 7 days a week. Located on 
7625 W. Newberry Road 352-505-8894 
www.facebook.com/Vegan2Go.GainesvilleVeganBy Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
In 2004, two musicians were 
playing video games when they had 
the idea to produce a new kind of musical performance art. Bit Brigade will be taking nerd culture to new 
heights at High Dive today at 8 p.m. 
Bit Brigade will play in Gainesville 
as the ﬁ  rst stop of their weekend 
tour, which also includes Tampa and Orlando. Opening artists for Bit Bri-gade will be Cartridge Carnage and Mantras Octave, with DJ Drew Love spinning before and between sets.
The premise of a Bit Brigade 
show is simple: a gamer will do a “speed run” through several levels of a video game while the live band plays in replacement of the game’s built in background music.
Speed runs are a method of play-
ing with the intention to get to the next level of the game as fast as pos-sible without being booted out by “losing a life,” Bit Brigade fan Day-
ton Steward said.
“As the gamer plays, the band 
matches the levels he’s at. They play 
the victory tunes, even the music that would play when bosses are being blown up,” the Orlando resi-dent said. “It’s great, because some-times the gamer will beat the level or game in a few seconds and the band 
doesn’t even get to play the whole 
song.”
Steward attended a Bit Brigade 
show at Nerdapalooza in 2012, not knowing what to expect of the band.
“It’s really engaging and nerve-
wracking,” Steward said. “You get really invested in the runner like you would if you were playing the game yourself.” 
Bit Brigade started as a side proj-
ect of another band, Cinemechanica, which originated in Athens, Georgia. 
Although Bit Brigade is their cur-
rent focus, group members still cre-ate original music on their own in their respective bands, Cinemechani-ca, Double Ferrari and Maserati, gui-tarist Bryant Williamson said.
“Myself and the original guitarist, 
Andy Pruett, came up with the idea while hanging out and playing Con-tra on the Nintendo Entertainment System back in 2004,” Williamson said. “I called our gamer, Noah Mc-Carthy, immediately, and he said he was down. We did our ﬁ  rst per-formance of Contra a few months later.”
The band’s guitarist, Jace Bartet, 
and bassist, Luke Fields, later joined 
McCarthy, Williamson and the origi-
nal drummer, Mike Albanese. In to-tal, the band has produced six game soundtracks with two on the way for both Batman and DuckTales games. 
Bit Brigade will perform three 
Nintendo Entertainment System, or NES, games on this leg of the tour, including Castlevania, Batman and 
DuckTales.
DJ Drew Love, who will get the 
video game atmosphere underway 
before the show, is a Gainesville favorite, previously playing residen-cies at University Club and The Mo-tor Room. 
“I tend to be their guy when they 
have nerdier acts play,” Love said. “Everything I’ll be playing is going to be inﬂ  uenced by games and nerd 
culture.”
“The remixes tend to be from the 
NES/Genesis era, as well as Mortal 
Kombat, Mario, Sonic and Zelda. Half the time, though, I’m not even sure what I’m going to play before I go on. Reading crowd responses is important for any show,” Love said.
The doors for the Bit Brigade 
show will open at 8 p.m. Tickets, which are $8 in advance, can be pur-chased on ticketﬂ  y.com. Tickets will also be available for $10 at the door. 
 Video game-influenced band to perform at High Dive
MUSIC12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURDAY, MAY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    4-18-17-7-2
Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage $950 mo
Walk to UF. Off street parking. Avail now.We require a first, last and a $500 sec to move in. $40 app/credit check. No Pets 332-5836 weekdays    5-30-17-6-2Takeover my lease and I'll give you $500. 3bd/2bath apartment available for sublease at Boardwalk Apartments starting June 2017. Rent is $999. Call (786)445-6444 for more information.     5-30-17-5-2
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsGOODBIKE / 2 Locations
Bicycle Sales and Service
425 NW 13th St ● 352-792-6600
210 NW 10th Ave ● 352-327-3727
Big selection of new & used bikes    5-23-
17-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-3901    6-13-17-8-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    5-18-17-16-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!● LOCAL● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICALReach over 50,000 readerseach publication day.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Wanted someone to complete building a website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14
********Opus Coffee**********Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr. To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     5-25-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) to assist Quadriplegic w/ADL activities PT: 2-3 providers needed6 AM-10 AM; 12-16 hours weekly $17-$20 hour; CNA or EquivalentContact: caregiverprovider@cox.net     5-30-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '17
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-18-17-2-14
Ground Floor Opportunity for
MD/DC/PA/ARNP/AP - New Integrated Medicine Clinic.PT/FT. All inquiries strictly confidential. eMail: groundfloor2016@gmail.com    6-1-17-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
FRESH CUSTOM APPAREL
T-shirts, Hats & Uniforms.Screen
printing, Embroidery & Sublimation
FREE Graphic Design & Shipping on
eligible orders.Call, Text or Email for
same day Quote.786-514-6298
joe.plaza@freshprintsmiami.com
5-18-5-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
NORTHFLO CROSSFIToffering UF staff and student student dis-count. $99 dollars a month. We also offer personal training and nutrition. Call Today 352-470-9131    5-23-17-5-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are the greatest
1. GOVERNMENT: How many U.S. 
senators are elected from each state?
2. TELEVISION: What is the name 
of the bartender on “The Simpsons”?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is Canada’s 
southernmost point?
4. ADS: What airline used this adver -
tising slogan: “You are now free to 
move about the country”?
5. HISTORY: Which war ended with 
the 1763 Treaty of Paris?
6. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
American writer once told Ernest 
Hemingway, “You are all a lost gener -
ation”?
7. U.S. STATES: What is the state 
capital of California?
8. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
meat used in a dish called tournedos?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the name of a hot-air balloon’s 
basket?
10. MUSIC: What pop group had 
a hit with the 1970 release “I’ll Be There”?
Answers
1. Two
2. Moe
3. Middle Island in Lake Erie4. Southwest5. The French and Indian War6. Gertrude Stein7. Sacramento8. Beef9. Gondola10. The Jackson 5
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 15, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Halloween
costume that
may involve ared cape and tail
6 Respected men
10 Banana Boat
initials
13 “I Fall to Pieces”
singer
14 “America’s
FLAVORiteFrozen Beveragesince 1967”
15 Considerable
age
17 Words requesting
a pass
19 Apple choice
20 “Phooey!”21 Words indicating
a pass
23 Prof’s aides
24 Cardio chart26 Overly27 Team with 121
medals at the RioOlympics
28 Throw water on30 Put the kibosh on32 Before, once36 Genetic material37 Cantaloupe and
honeydew
39 Words
constituting apass
42 Infomercial
staples
43 Tack on44 “I almost forgot ... ”45 “I’m extremely
interested insqualor” speakerof literature
46 Ripoff
48 “Viva __ Vegas”49 Homer stat51 Camera inits.52 Hrs. at Coors
Field games
55 Words printed on
a pass
58 Childcare worker60 Nullify61 Words seen in a
pass
63 View from a pew
64 Dalí house65 Great Lakes
natives
66 That, in Tijuana
67 URL starter68 Holding
corporation that
owns Kmart
DOWN
1 Get moving
2 Dominant3 Levels in a park4 Gunn of “Sully”5 Like matryoshka
dolls
6 Kim, to Khloé
Kardashian
7 Offer of help8 Faraway9 Take care of
10 It often spans
decades
11 Egg roll cooking
medium
12 Pete Seeger’s
forte
16 Rocket launcher
18 Chaperones22 Emulate a news
helicopter
25 Tries hard (for)29 Doctor’s request31 Disney character
who sings “Let ItGo”
32 Curved letter33 Ali ring
trademark34 Simply Cocoa
maker
35 Other people
37 Splash guard38 __-Cat
40 Frost advisory,
e.g.
41 Poetic paeans
46 Doughboy’s
helmet
47 Peace offerings
48 Soap brand with
volcanic pumice50 Big name in
kitchen appliances
52 Two-time French
Open winnerSharapova
53 Sunken ship
explorer
54 Long lock56 Creative flash57 __ China Sea59 Untainted62 Genre using
speakers?
BEGAT P I TS MBAS
AL I TO INIT AARP
BASERUNNER PLEA
E N TITL E S ENL I ST
TUNA FARE
TAU GAL I MAG I NE
ATSEA GERE EBON
RAUL ALTER NATE
PRAM NASH CDROM
S I LENTN YEA SKY
RIN D DVRS
BAFFLE TREETOPS
ACLU SQUAREROOT
SHED TURN RAZOR
HEAD SOFT STYRO
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/18/1705/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services
 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR  15Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/sportsCharges dropped against former UF football player
The misdemeanor battery complaint filed against former Florida defensive 
tackle Caleb Brantley was dropped on Wednesday by the State Attorney's 
Office due to a lack of "reliable evidence. " Brantley was selected by the Cleveland Browns in the sixth round of the NFL Draft in April.Women's tennis freshman 
Ingrid Neel got her wish on Sunday with a victory over Miami to advance to the Sweet 16. Read the story, pg. 18.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Frank Rubio will be the first to admit that 
things looked bleak for Florida after its opening 
weekend of SEC play back in March.
Facing Auburn on the road in a three-game 
series, UF was embarrassed and humbled 
at the hands of the Tigers, losing the trio of 
contests by a combined score of 22-9.
The sweep put the Gators conference 
record at 0-3 for the first time in eight years 
and dropped them to the cellar of the SEC standings.
However, after winning 18 of its past 21 
games, No. 5 Florida (38-14, 19-8 SEC) has 
climbed all the way back into first place in 
the conference and is in prime position to win 
the regular-season SEC title, leaving Rubio astonished at UF’s turnaround from its rough 
start.
“I don’t think anybody coming out of that 
weekend thought this was a possibility,” the reliever said. “That just goes to show you the 
type of team we have this year.”
The Gators have one series left in the 
regular season, a three-game slate against 
Kentucky that begins tonight at 7 p.m.
While Florida has been been difficult to 
stop at the plate lately, scoring at least six runs in eight of its past nine games, strong 
performances from its pitching staff will be key 
against the Wildcats.
Kentucky (37-16, 18-9 SEC) is just one 
game behind UF in the conference standings 
and possesses a lineup full of talented 
offensive players. The Wildcats lead the SEC in Florida set to face Kentucky 
with SEC title on the line
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Frank Rubio pitches during Florida's 10-4 loss against Mississippi State on April 9, 
2016, at McKethan Stadium.
Gators falter at 
NCAA Regional
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Going into the final round of the NCAA 
Regional, Florida's men's golf team was in 
prime position to advance to the national championship. But after Wednesday’s 
performance, the Gators will head back to 
Gainesville empty-handed, as their season ended with a combined 24-over in the final round, putting their total score at 27-over in 
the tournament.
“It’s the most disappointing day we’ve all 
ever had on a golf course,” coach JC Deacon 
said in a release. “Not in a million rounds did I ever think this could ever happen to this team.”
Florida finished the day as the highest 
scoring team (312). New Mexico was the next highest scoring team on the day (310), but were still able to advance to the national championship with a fourth-place finish.
Coming into the tournament, Florida was 
ranked No. 1 in the West Lafayette region. With Wednesday’s showing and an eighth-place finish, the Gators showed there is still work to do if they want to become national championship contenders.
None of the five Gators in this week’s 
lineup were able to grab a top-20 finish. Andy Zhang, the lone freshman in the lineup, was Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
After a disappointing early exit in the SEC 
Tournament, the No. 1 Florida softball team 
will quickly regather itself before pushing 
into the NCAA Gainesville Regional.
The Gators couldn’t put the pieces together 
in a 2-0 loss to the Ole Miss Rebels in the 
second round of the conference tournament. The offense sputtered, as only juniors Kayli 
Kvistad and Janell Wheaton could register 
hits on the night.  
“You know, the past few years we haven’t 
really done that well in the SEC Tournament,” junior Aleshia Ocasio said. “But we’ve come out and had a strong postseason, so we’re not really looking too much at our SEC Tournament.”
Now, Florida (50-6, 20-3 SEC) will fix its 
gaze on the NCAA Regionals, where it earned a No. 1 seed in postseason positioning for the third consecutive year. They’ll host the opening regional rounds at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
“We’ve been home the last few years 
that I’ve been here,” Ocasio said. “And it definitely is an advantage, I think, to play on our home turf.”
The Gators will open regional play against 
Florida A&M, a team they are very familiar with.
Apart from being just over two hours 
away as in-state opponents, the two teams Gators begin NCAA Regionals against Rattlers
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio slides into home plate during Florida's 5-0 win against Georgia on April 8, 2017, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19 SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 19MEN'S GOLF SOFTBALL
BASEBALLRattlersTHURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17
Alligator File Photo
Kelly Grassel lines up a shot during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville.
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
This Friday, the Gators women’s golf 
team will begin its quest for its third NCAA Championship title in program history.
The ﬁ  eld of 36 teams competing in Sugar 
Grove, Illinois, includes ﬁ  ve from the SEC: UF, Alabama, South Carolina, Arkansas and Texas A&M. In-state rivals FSU and Miami will also be vying for the title.
Coach Emily Glaser, who has led the Gators 
to NCAA Championship appearances in every season she’s been at UF since she took the job in 2012, said her team’s experience at the NCAA Regional in Columbus, Ohio, last week 
did a lot to prepare them for the challenges that 
await.“To be able to play on this type of course 
under the pressure of regionals the week before 
the National Championship is a huge advantage for us,” Glaser said after the Gators took a share of the regional title on May 12. “This (was) the type of course where taking a mental vacation at any time will cost you dearly. We expect the NCAA Championship to be like that as well.”
Seniors Kelly Grassel and Maria Torres are 
expected to lead the way for the Gators this weekend. Grassel took a share of the individual title in Columbus last week, posting an even par on a particularly difﬁ  cult course. Torres is 
looking to get back into her First Team All-SEC 
form after shooting 11-over for the tournament.
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org UF Women’s golf prepared 
for NCAA Championships18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Before the Gators women’s 
tennis team stepped on the court 
Sunday afternoon, Ingrid Neel was thinking ahead. The lone freshman playing in her ﬁ  rst NCAA Tournament was so eager to 
advance to the Sweet 16 in Athens, 
Georgia, she wasn’t even thinking about tennis.
“I was telling my teammates, 
‘Let’s pick the outﬁ  ts, come on guys,” Neel said. “And they said ‘We haven’t even won today.’ I told them ‘I know, but it’s ﬁ  ne. I’m ready to go.’”
With two dominant victories this 
past weekend over Massachusetts and Miami, the Gators will look to 
carry their momentum into Friday’s 
match against Texas A&M.
Florida is well versed in tough 
SEC opponents, having gone 11-2 
in conference play this year.The Gators are also seasoned 
against the Aggies. Florida blanked 
TAMU 4-0 in March in a match that was delayed due to rain. Even in the rescheduled contest, the teams were forced to deal with two weather delays as well as 20-mile-per-hour winds.
Texas A&M comes into the 
Sweet 16 following a 4-3 battle over No. 16 Baylor in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
The Aggies, who had lost to the 
Bears 4-0 earlier in the season, got revenge on Sunday, and they will look to do the same against the Gators on Friday.
In the close and hard-fought 
match, the decision was ultimately determined by doubles play, where A&M houses the nation’s No. 7-ranked doubles team in Rutuja Bhosale and Rachel Pierson.
However, this shouldn’t be a 
problem for the Gators, as they have won 25 of 28 doubles points and are 24-1 when they take the point. The Gators’ loss to Vanderbilt in the SEC Tournament was the only time the team has lost after grabbing the early lead.
Continuing as the No. 1 seed 
in the bracket, Florida will also have to look to another one of its strengths: mental toughness. As the team starts to play on a daily basis, 
coach Roland Thornqvist stressed 
the importance of playing with your head as well as your legs.
“In all my years, every team 
that’s won the NCAA Championship has been a mentally rock solid team,” he said. “There’s going to be a time when you’re doubting, and 
you’re just going to have to ﬁ  nd a 
way. I’m sure, at some point, we’ll have a moment like that, and we need to be ready for it.”
UF will open its play in Athens 
against the Aggies at 7 p.m. on Friday.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
 Florida to play rematch against Texas A&M in Sweet 16
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ingrid Neel hits a backhand during Floirda’s 4-2 win against 
Oklahoma State on Feb. 18, 2017, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
Faedo starts tonight
batting average (.322), runs scored (411), on base 
percentage (.425) and slugging percentage (.506).
Seven players on Kentucky’s roster are hitting 
above .300, including junior ﬁ  rst baseman Evan White, who’s third in the conference at .381. Junior 
inﬁ  elder Riley Mahan leads the team in home runs 
with 13 and RBIs with 55.
Junior Alex Faedo will be getting the starting nod 
on the mound tonight for UF, while sophomores 
Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar are tabbed for 
Friday night and Saturday afternoon, respectively.
Faedo, sporting a 7-1 record and 2.33 ERA in 
2017, was quick to note that the Gators haven’t won 
a series against the Wildcats in six years and said 
he was relishing the opportunity to compete for an 
SEC title.
“It’s going to be a lot of fun,” Faedo said. 
“Kentucky plays us really hard, so hopefully we can come out with a series win this year.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 16Florida's season now over
the closest to the top 20, ﬁ  nishing 
in a tie for 21st. His ﬁ  nal round score of 2-over (74) was the lowest 
on the scorecard for the Gators.
Three of Florida’s golfers shot 
in the 80s in their ﬁ  nal round, 
including an 86 from sophomore Gordon Neale, the highest score of any golfer in the ﬁ  nal round.
Going into the back nine, 
Florida was 8-over on the day and held sole possession of ﬁ  fth 
place. A ﬁ  nish in this position 
would have clinched a spot in the national championship and given the Gators their 52nd appearance in the competition.
However, the Gators stumbled as play began to wind down. The ﬁ  fth-ranked team in the nation combined for a ﬁ  ve double bogeys, 
three triple bogeys and a quadruple 
bogey. The quadruple bogey came on the par-3 17th from sophomore Sam Horsﬁ  eld, who will be going pro after playing his ﬁ  nal round as 
a Gator on Wednesday. Ryan Orr 
will also be leaving the team as a 
graduating senior.
The Gators will have a few 
months off from tournament 
play until they begin again in the 
fall. Returning players include 
Alejandro Tosti, Gordon Neale and Andy Zhang.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org MEN'S GOLF,  from pg 16
have already played twice this 
season.
Florida took apart the Rattlers 
8-1 in the Aquaﬁ  na Invitational 
hosted by the Gators on Feb. 17.
While extra-base hits were a 
rarity, a combination of 11 singles and speedy base running that earned nine steals got the Gators their seventh win on the year.
Nearly three months later, 
Florida concluded its season on May 7 against the Rattlers in a 7-0 victory that featured two home runs from Ocasio and senior 
Chelsea Herndon.
Although the Gators dispatched 
Florida A&M (18-29-1) easily, 
they know the Rattlers shouldn't be taken for granted, especially 
after the offense struggled near 
the end of the season.
And after not appearing in the Women’s College World Series in 
2016 due to a Super Regional loss to Georgia, the motivation for the players and coaches is high.
“Wasn’t able to go to the 
College World Series last year, and it broke my heart,” sophomore pitcher Kelly Barnhill said. “So this year, we all have that extra little bit of drive to get there.”
Drive and motivation are one 
thing, but the ability to drive in runs has hindered the Gators as the season has dwindled down.
In its last three games against 
powerhouse programs Ole Miss, Florida State and Tennessee, Florida has scored a combined two runs.
In contrast, the Gators 
averaged ﬁ  ve runs per outing in their ﬁ  rst 22 conference games.
While questions arise 
surrounding their ability to load the bases and tack runs on the scoreboard, head coach Tim Walton knows the answer is simple.
“I think Amanda Lorenz and 
Kayli Kvistad have to get on base,” Walton said. “When they do that, we’re tough to beat.”
Easily Florida’s two most 
powerful bats, Lorenz and Kvistad are both featured near the top of Florida’s lineup. When they get into scoring position, good things happen for the Gators.
The Gainesville Regional 
begins Friday with a battle between FIU and Oklahoma State at noon, followed by Florida’s contest against Florida A&M at 2:30 p.m. The winner of those two games will play each other on Saturday at noon.
 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org 
UF is 2-0 against Florida A&M in 2017
SOFTBALL,  from pg 16
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti hits a shot during the day one of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 18, 2017, at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Alex Faedo celebrates during UF's 1-0 win against LSU on March 24, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads FRIDAY NIGHT 
$3 Margaritas; $3 Lemon Drop 
Shots; and $4 First Magnitude Drafts
SATURDAY NIGHT 
$3 Tequila Shots; $3 Cocktail on Tap; 
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL 
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
  By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
While some younger UF baseball 
players are beginning their MLB 
careers, one established veteran is proving that he still has it.
Orioles reliever Darren O’Day 
returned to the team this week after dealing with minor shoulder discomfort.
On Tuesday against the Detroit 
Tigers, O’Day provided a ﬂ  awless inning, allowing no hits and striking out two batters.
The former Gator stumbled early 
on in the season, letting up six 
hits and six runs in his ﬁ  rst three 
outings, but has since returned to form.
In his last 10 games, O’Day has 
given up ﬁ  ve hits and three runs, and has struck out eight batters.
The Stockton DuoFormer UF pitchers A.J. Puk and 
Logan Shore have been struggling this season with the Stockton Ports, the Class A-Advanced afﬁ  liate of the Oakland Athletics.
Puk, the No. 6 overall pick in last 
year’s MLB Draft, has a 1-8 record since making his minor league debut on July 12, 2016. This season 
alone, he has a 4.15 ERA with 49 
strikeouts and has let up 23 hits.
Shore hasn’t had much success 
either, earning a 1-5 record in his ﬁ  rst two seasons in the minors. He does, however, hold a 2.91 career ERA and has recorded 53 strikeouts.
Puk and Shore were two of the 
Gators’ top pitchers in the 2016 
season, with Shore serving as the 
Friday night starter and Puk the Saturday night starter. The duo also helped lead Florida to the College World Series in 2015 and 2016.
The Minors Roundup
You can’t talk about the minors 
without mentioning Tim Tebow.
The former UF quarterback is in his ﬁ  rst season with the Columbia Fireﬂ  ies, the Class A afﬁ  liate of the New York Mets, and started the year with a home run in his ﬁ  rst at bat.
He is currently hitting .227 and 
has seven hits and two RBIs in his 
last 10 games.
After a successful career in 
Gainesville, former UF ﬁ  rst baseman 
Peter Alonso has been dealing with some injury woes in the minors.
A broken ﬁ  nger kept him from 
ﬁ  nishing his season with the Brooklyn Cyclones in 2016, and a broken hand has kept him out of the 
lineup for the St. Lucie Mets since 
April 11 of this season. In the six games he did play with St. Lucie, Alonso had four hits and two RBIs.
In Double-A action, former 
shortstop Richie Martin has been playing well with the Midland RockHounds.
In his last 10 games, Martin has 
a .393 batting average with 11 hits, two doubles and an RBI.Former catcher Mike Zunino was 
sent down to the Seattle Mariners Triple A afﬁ  liate, the Tacoma Rainiers, after struggling early in the 2017 season with the big league club. 
Before his demotion, Zunino was hitting .167 with 12 hits. In seven games with the Rainiers, Zunino has a .250 batting average with two home runs and four RBIs.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org 
 Puk and Shore struggling in minors
Alligator File Photo
A.J. Puk pitches during Florida’s 7-2 loss to Miami on Feb. 21, 2015, 
at McKethan Stadium.
GATORS IN THE MLB
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
The UF men’s tennis team has made it to 
the Sweet 16 for a second straight year.
However, it will also meet the defending 
champions, Virginia, in the NCAA 
Tournament for a second straight year.
Last season, Florida struggled mightily 
against the Cavaliers in a 4-0 loss that ended 
its postseason run. But with a fresh slate in 
2017, the No. 15 Gators are hoping to get off to a quick start when the match begins at 9 a.m. today.
“The ﬁ  rst and most important thing is 
to come out punching early,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “I think in doubles, it’s really important for us to establish an aggressive mindset and really feel like we’re taking it to them early.”
If the Gators can get the ball rolling in 
doubles, they should be able to improve on the 5-2 defeat they suffered against Virginia 
earlier this season.
When it faced UVA in February, Florida 
had a drastically different set of doubles 
pairs than it does now.
The two spot saw junior Chase Perez-
Blanco paired with senior Maxx Lipman, while senior Elliott Orkin and sophomore McClain Kessler were stationed at three.
Now, Florida has paired up the seniors, 
Lipman and Orkin, at two and dropped the talented Perez-Blanco down to three, where he plays alongside the experienced redshirt junior Joshua Wardell.
Prior to making the changes at doubles, 
UF was 5-5 in capturing the doubles point and was only able to convert once in doubles against a ranked opponent (Oklahoma). 
Since switching to its current lineup, Florida 
is 12-6 in doubles play and even captured the point against No. 3 Ohio State.
The Gators also come into today’s 
match with exceptional play coming from Perez-Blanco in singles. The junior earned victories in both of Florida’s opening NCAA Tournament matches and hasn’t dropped a set in the process.
Big play from Perez-Blanco has often 
meant big wins for the Gators, as they are 12-6 this year when the Miami native wins and 3-6 when he suffers a loss.
“He’s just an incredible player and he can 
do so many good things out on the court,” Shelton said. “Our record shows that he’s a key piece to the puzzle for us.”
However, contributions from all around 
the court will be necessary for Florida to knock-off the defending champs.
“I think our guys are really ﬁ  t right 
now, and I think that’s going to be a factor in this match against a very good team,” Shelton said. “We’ve got to be able to go the distance.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
 UF to face defending champion Virginia in the Round of 16