We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorForbes Brasil’s 2017 list
UF alumnus included in Brazil “30 Under 30,” pg. 3
Santa Fe student arrested
He is accused of trapping a professor in a classroom, pg. 3By David Hoffman and 
Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writers
Amid the humid weather, steady 
rush-hour trafﬁ  c and loud honks 
from cars passing by, protesters and counter-protesters stood on op-posite sides of University Avenue 
and Main Street chanting back and 
forth.
“No hate. No KKK. No fascist 
USA.”
“All lives matter.”“‘Old Joe’ has got to go.”“Freedom! USA.”Starting at noon Tuesday, about 
100 people gathered at the base of 
the “Old Joe” Confederate soldier 
statue located next to the Alachua County Administration Building, about half in protest and half in support of the statue remaining at its current location.
Some protesters carried signs 
reading “Black Lives Matter” and “F--- the Confederacy” while shout-
ing anti-hate messages into mega-
phones across the busy downtown intersection. Others held Confed-erate ﬂ  ags high in their air, wore military-style clothing and carried signs that read  “1st Amendment For All” and “History Happened, Don’t Erase It.”
“Old Joe” has been standing on 
the grounds of the Alachua County Administration Building since 1904. The intent of the statue is to com-memorate those who fought for the Confederacy in the Civil War, but to others, it is a symbol of racism. 
At a Tuesday evening meeting, 
the Alachua County Commission voted 4-to-1 to remove “Old Joe” 
from its original location and give it 
to the United Daughters of the Con-federacy, said county commission spokesperson Mark Sexton. 
“Last night, four of the ﬁ  ve com-
missioners agreed that the time has 
come to do something about this,” Sexton said. “So they took action.”
The Daughters, a nationwide 
heritage group of Southern women, 
now have 60 days to respond to the county about whether they wish to take ownership of the statue they originally erected 113 years ago.
If the Daughters take up the board’s offer, it will be their respon-
sibility to pay for the removal of 
“Old Joe” and transport it to their desired location, Sexton said.
David McCallister, who original-
ly predicted the commission would vote to keep the statue in place, said 
he was very disappointed with the county’s decision. 
“The county commission is out 
of touch with the people and out 
of step with the times,” said Mc-Callister, a spokesperson for Save Southern Heritage, a group of vol-unteers formed in 2015 who seek to 
preserve and promote the history of 
the South. 
The Alachua County Commis-
sion has been attempting to solve this issue for more than a year and a half. They tried to relocate it to the Matheson History Museum, but the museum ultimately did not want to take it, McCallister said.
“It’s been a public feature of 
Gainesville for 100 years,” he said. “There’s no reason to be changing it.” 
Faye Williams, a lead organizer 
for the protest and of the Alachua County Peace Coalition, said Tues-day afternoon’s demonstration was about moving the Confederate stat-
ue off government property.
“No monument (like that) should 
be standing in public space,” Wil-
liams said. “We’re the taxpayers.”
She said she knows what it 
means to come from a military fam-ily, and she feels there’s no honor in a statue that represents a history of racism and a Confederate Army that 
wronged blacks and minorities.
“My father was a Marine, my 
brother was a Marine, my uncle 
was a Marine,” Williams said. “What does that say to them? What does that say to me — as a black woman?”
Protesters and counter-protest-
ers were loud but mostly respect-VOLUME 111 ISSUE 149 THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
Kristen Solarzano / Alligator Staff
Protesters and counter-protesters occupy the corner of Southeast University Avenue and Main Street 
on Tuesday, where the “Old Joe” Confederate soldier statue stands tall next to the Alachua County Administration Building. Supporters of the statue chanted “Freedom” and “USA. ”
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Brennan Monaco remembers see-
ing terror unfold on his Twitter feed 
in real time Monday evening.
When the UF alumnus ﬁ  rst saw 
the earliest headlines on his iPhone 
— “explosion in Manchester” — he 
was on his way to a dinner with his hometown friends in Jensen Beach, Florida. 
He said at ﬁ  rst he hoped the ex-
plosion was some sort of ﬁ  reworks or pyrotechnic accident. But then the updates came in. It was then, when he had to brieﬂ  y interrupt the other-wise happy reunion to deliver news of the attack, that 26-year-old Mo-naco said his heart sank.
The country Monaco called home 
last Summer, and the same country 
he’ll be returning to for graduate 
school in October, had been sense-lessly attacked. 
“You just start to see the horror, 
detail by detail, as it drips out,” he said. 
Late Monday night at the Man-
chester Arena in England, where American pop star Ariana Grande 
had just ﬁ  nished her performance, a 
bomber detonated what local police describe as an “improvised explosive device,” killing himself and 22 audi-ence members, including children, as they were exiting the arena, ac-cording to The New York Times. There were 59 people hospitalized, 
some with life-threatening injuries.
“It’s mind-boggling,” Monaco 
said of the bombing. “You’re talking 
about a concert that was intended for children. I mean, Ariana Grande, she works a younger set.”
On Tuesday, the Islamic State 
group claimed responsibility for the attack, though Greater Manchester 
Police have said they are still inves-
tigating the bombing and the motive of the assailant, 22-year-old Salman Abedi, according to the Times. Abe-di is a Briton of Libyan descent who lived near the arena.
In 2016, Monaco spent about six 
weeks of his Summer in England 
and France for the UF in Cambridge 
study-abroad program. In October, he will begin his yearlong master’s program in American history at the University of Cambridge, about three hours from Manchester.
“Having been with the British 
people, having felt their hospitality — it hits you a bit harder, I think,” 
he said of the attack.Unfortunately, Europe is no 
stranger to these terror attacks or 
the heightened sense of security that 
comes with them, Monaco said. One 
day during a trip to Paris in mid-July 
when Monaco visited the iconic Pan-
theon monument, he said a tourist nearby accidentally left his backpack 
on the ground of the main plaza out-
side the monument. 
“Immediately there were four 
French soldiers there, and then there 
were more coming down the street a few minutes later,” he said. “It was very clear on that trip that both in 
UF reacts to Manchester bombing
Four UF students are currently studying abroad in the city
SEE MANCHESTER,  PAGE 5
County Commission votes to relocate Confederate statue
SEE OLD JOE,  PAGE 4
The Gators beat Stanford on Tuesday to 
claim program’s seventh title, pg. 14UF women’s tennis wins National ChampionsipWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘River of Dreams’
The Matheson History 
Museum’s new exhibition, “River of Dreams: the St. Johns and Its Springs,” runs from now 
until June 24. This original exhi-
bition examines Floridians’ past, present and future relationship with the St. Johns River and its 
springs. The exhibition and all 
related programs are free and 
open to the public. The exhibi-
tion includes original work by photographer Anne Ledbetter and Bruce Mozert; artifacts from Kingsley Plantation; a model of the Silver Glen Springs shell mound; documents and images on loan from Smathers Library, Special & Area Studies 
Collections and the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper project; and images of the St. Johns River, Ocklawaha River and Silver Springs from the Matheson’s photographic, ste-reographic and postcard collec-tions. It will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. For more infor-mation, visit mathesonmuseum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The exhibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popular street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of ur-ban art. The show will include 
abstract photographs of layers 
on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. For 
more information, please visit 
arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
‘Forever Plaid’ at the 
HippodromeJoin the boys of “Forever Plaid” on a humorous ‘heavenly’ jour-ney through some of the great-est close-harmony songs of the 
‘50s during the new musical at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre. The musical is a mix of ‘50s and ‘60s rock ‘n’ roll, popular show and dance tunes, blend-ed with witty comedy that has continued to delight audiences in cities across the nation. The show will run from Wednesday 
to June 25. To buy tickets or to 
find more information, visit the-hipp.org/event/forever-plaid.Become #InvolvedUF at 
GatormaniaThe largest summer event on campus, Gatormania 2017, will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. 
on the North Lawn. Celebrate 
Summer B with free food, give-aways, inflatable fun and live performances showcasing a va-riety of student organizations and campus partners. Don’t miss this opportunity to ﬁ  nd your involvement niche. The event is hosted by the Involvement 
Team, the ambassadors of 
the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. For more information, visit student-involvement.uﬂ  .edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 149
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  81° LOW  57°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Glorida Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren Johnson
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Health North in Jacksonville 
opened the doors to its brand new 
inpatient tower Tuesday.
Wayne Marshall, the vice presi-
dent of UF Health North, said con-
struction has been ongoing since 
July 2015. The inpatient tower in-cludes 92 private patient rooms, each equipped with a 55-inch tele-vision and interactive technology to 
communicate with the nursing staff.
Marshall said each of the towers’ 
ﬁ  ve ﬂ  oors specialize in one area of 
inpatient procedures, with two ﬂ  oors dedicated to general medical inpa-tients, one ﬂ  oor to labor and delivery and one ﬂ  oor to intensive care.Marshall said the expansion cost 
about $85 million.
“There was a need for this in the 
community,” he said. “The North Jacksonville community does not have a hospital.”
He said before the opening of the 
inpatient tower, UF Health North primarily specialized in outpatient procedures and treated more than 120 patients a day in its emergency room.
Because of the lack of inpatient 
rooms, patients in the ER in critical condition were transported 10 miles to the closest hospital, Marshall said.
Since the opening of the inpatient 
tower, UF Health North has per-formed three inpatient procedures and admitted nine patients from their ER, Marshall said.
He said this summer, the hospital 
will open its ICU and labor and de-
livery suites.
“We’d like to thank the commu-
nity for embracing our mission up 
here and what we’ve been doing,” Marshall said. “This community has taken us in, and they say this is their hospital.”
UF Health North spends about $85 million on expansionBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A 19-year-old Santa Fe College stu-
dent tried to force a math professor to give him a make-up exam Monday af-ternoon.
Jude Chiedu Akachukwu is accused 
of trapping Heather Holley, a Santa Fe math professor, in her ofﬁ  ce until she’d agree to let him take a make-up exam for a class, according to a Santa Fe Po-lice report. He faces charges of false im-prisonment and battery.
Akachukwu entered Holley’s ofﬁ  ce 
uninvited, closed the door and blocked her way out stating that she needed 
to let him take a make-up or else he 
wouldn’t let her leave, according to the report.
When Holley told Akachukwu he 
couldn’t make up the exam and turned to walk away, he grabbed her by the arm, according to the report. Holley then threatened to call the police, which caused Akachukwu to have a break-down. According to the report, he threw 
himself on the ﬂ  oor and began crying.
While he was on the ﬂ  oor, Holley 
rushed outside her ofﬁ  ce and went to 
a nearby classroom to begin teaching. Akachukwu then followed Holley to her class and began interrupting the lecture, according to the report.
Holley teaches classes including Cal-
culus 1 with Analytic Geometry, Survey 
of Calculus, College Algebra and Trigo-
nometry.
According to Alachua County Clerk 
of Court records, Akachukwu faces six different drug-related charges ﬁ  led May 8, including cocaine possession, mari-juana possession with intent to sell and possession of a controlled substance without a prescription.
On Wednesday night, Akachukwu 
was released from the Alachua County Jail on an $80,000 bond. SF student arrested after 
trapping professor in oﬃ   ce
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Andres Andrade arrived to Brazil in 
2013, the then 26-year-old never imagined that 
four years later he would be one of the coun-
try’s most successful businessmen. 
Andrade, who was included on the 2017 
Forbes Brasil’s “30 under 30” list, is a UF alum-
nus from Ecuador. He currently serves as the 
chief investment ofﬁ  cer for Gazit Brasil, an 
international real estate company that oper-
ates, manages and develops shopping centers 
around the world.
Andrade graduated from the Warrington 
College of Business Administration in 2008 with a master of science in real estate.
After graduating, Andrade took a job with 
Gazit Brasil as an analyst in its Miami ofﬁ  ce. In 
2013, Gazit Brasil offered Andrade a position as 
its business director.
“It deﬁ  nitely was tough in the beginning,” 
Andrade said. “You have to get adjusted to the way business is done locally.”
Since Andrade relocated to Brazil, the com-
pany has increased its worth from about $100 million to nearly $700 million.
Andrade said the best thing he took away 
from his time in UF’s MSRE program was the importance of networking. He said the program was keen on making sure students knew how to market themselves. 
“I was able to buy all this good real estate 
because I can speak to people and make con-
nections,” Andrade said.
He said he was not expecting his Forbes 
nomination but felt incredibly honored when 
he heard the news. 
Jon Cannon, the executive director of devel-
opment and alumni affairs for UF’s Bergstrom 
Real Estate Center, said in recent years, alumni 
have graduated more prepared for their future 
careers. 
“We’re extremely proud to see recent gradu-
ates, especially, come out and have an immedi-ate impact in their chosen profession,” he said.UF alumnus included on 
Forbes Brasil’s ‘30 under 30’4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
Kristen Solarzano / Alligator Staff
Protesters young and old stand at the corner of Southeast 
University Avenue and Main Street in opposition to the “Old Joe” Confederate soldier statue. Demonstrators shouted through megaphones across all four corners of the intersection chants such as “Old Joe has got to go” and “No hate. No KKK. No fascist USA. ”
ful of one another, with the exception of one arrest, said 
Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Phillip Charles Dalton, 28, is accused of spitting on Ja-
son Daniel Carlile, 40, during the protest at about 4:40 p.m. Tuesday and faces a charge of simple battery, accord-
ing to a GPD arrest report.
Carlile, who traveled up to the protest from St. Lucie 
County, Florida, said at the time Dalton approached him, 
he was simply standing next to other counter-protesters supporting “Old Joe” and saying nothing. 
Earlier during the protest, Carlile, who was wearing an 
“All Lives Matter” T-shirt, said he had been chanting slo-gans and called Black Lives Matter a hate group.
“I am one of the nicest people you’ll ever meet,” said 
Carlile, who said he supports President Donald Trump. “Yes, I am a Republican, but I also believe in equality. I’m not a racist.” 
On Wednesday, Dalton was released from the Alachua 
County Jail on his own recognizance. Dalton declined to comment on the incident.James Napier said he believes those who stood in soli-
darity with the “Old Joe” statue Tuesday were supporting 
history and unity.
 “I see it as a sign of U.S. American history,” Napier 
said. “Not Confederate racism. None of that.”
Napier, 43, said he drove to Gainesville from out of 
state to be a part of a bigger issue and defend the Confed-
erate statues being removed across the country. 
On Friday, a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 
was taken down in New Orleans after nationwide con-troversy erupted in June 2015 when Dylann Roof, a self-
described white supremacist, shot nine African-Americans 
dead in a church in Charleston, South Carolina, according to NPR. 
Napier said the removal of similar historic statues won’t 
stop with New Orleans, Gainesville or other cities, which is why he travels to these protests and counterprotests. His purpose is to be a non-aggressor and ensure everyone has the right to protest, he said.
“This is about red, white and blue,” Napier said. “We 
all bleed red.”OLD JOE,  from pg. 1GPD made one arrest at the protestTHURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Emilio Morenatti / AP Photo
A child places ﬂ  owers in a square in central Manchester, England, on 
Wednesday after the suicide bomb attack at an Ariana Grande concert that left 22 people dead and many more injured as it ended on Monday night at the Manchester Arena.
England and France were under 
a heightened state of security.” 
There are currently four UF 
students studying abroad in Manchester at the Alliance Man-
chester Business School, about 
three miles south of the site of Monday night’s attack, said UF spokesperson Janine Sikes. 
“They’re all safe,” Sikes said. 
Sikes said she believes UF is 
treating the attack as an isolat-
ed incident and is not currently making attempts to bring them back to the U.S. However, she said if any of the four students feel concerned for their safety and wish to be brought back home, the university will work to make that happen. 
Sikes said student safety is a No. 1 concern.
“There are always students 
studying abroad somewhere, 
and unfortunately, there have been numerous terrorist attacks around the world,” she said.
Despite these recent attacks 
across Europe, the U.S. and the rest of the world, Susanne Hill, the executive director of UF’s In-ternational Center, said her mes-sage to students is that fear or 
danger is no reason to not travel.
Hill, who is originally from 
Germany and has studied in 
England, France and Wales, said these attacks made her feel more 
inclined to go abroad, if any-
thing. The message of interna-
tionalization and globalization is more important now than ever, she said. “If students travel, if students 
open themselves up to other cul-
tures, this acceptance of other 
cultures eventually will reduce 
those attacks,” Hill said.
Knowing that ﬁ  ve months 
from now Monaco will be at the University of Cambridge in Eng-land, he said he’s not allowing himself to feel any more stress or apprehension. 
The way he sees it, there’s 
risk everywhere you go, be it New York, Brussels, London or Paris.
“That’s life,” Monaco said. 
“Your alternative is really to hide 
under a rock or lock yourself up 
in your room, and that’s no way 
to live.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
MANCHESTER,  from pg. 1All four UF students are safeThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Before I get into the column, there are 
two things I must preface: One, I’m writ-ing this column two days in advance, so things may develop that I cannot predict; and two, I am by no means well-practiced 
in law. I merely did some research to satisfy my inquiries.  
That being said, this column may present itself 
with some positions — as columns are known to do — but I’m mostly writing today for the solicita-tion of answers to my questions. Specifically, an-swers from anyone attending, teaching or who has graduated from the Levin College of Law or any law school for that matter.  
Anyway, by 9:30 a.m. May 22, The Associated Press re-
ported, “Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn will invoke his Fifth Amendment protection against self-in-crimination on Monday as he notifies the Senate Intelligence Committee that he will not comply with a subpoena seeking documents.” This update comes two weeks after the Sen-ate Intelligence Committee declined to provide Flynn with the immunity against unfair prosecution he asked for in ex-change for his testimony, according to The Hill. To my un-
derstanding and research, immunity against unfair prosecu-
tion allows Flynn to testify — and even say self-incriminating things — without the fear of criminal prosecution, since im-munity is an agreement between the defendant, prosecutor and judge.  
Legal experts expected this to happen, as Flynn provid-
ing documents without immunity would essentially be him waiving his own constitutional protections and possibly be-ing self-incriminating. However, before I get into my ques-
tions, I’d like to explain some things to the best of my under-
standing, for the common reader who may not practice law yet is still interested or invested in these events.  
Firstly, a subpoena is a court-ordered command of two 
kinds that is asking someone to do something. The first, a “subpoena ad testificandum,” is a command to testify before a court or legal authority. The second, a “subpoena duces tecum,” is a command to bring tangible evidence — docu-ments, materials, etc. — to the court.  
Secondly, self-incrimination, as stated by the 
Cornell Law School, is “the act of implicating oneself in a crime or exposing oneself to criminal prosecution” and may be the result of interroga-
tion or given voluntarily.  
Thirdly, the Fifth Amendment, which many 
know as “pleading the Fifth,” but it contains many 
clauses. It contains an explanation of grand juries, protects citizens against double jeopardy (being prosecuted for the same offense more than once), 
the protection against self-incrimination or pleading the Fifth, due process and just compensation for private property. The Fifth Amendment, or really the self-incrimination clause, was 
extended in Miranda v. Alabama, allowing one the right to 
remain silent, to an attorney present during questioning and to have a government-appointed attorney if one cannot af-ford a personal attorney. These are known as the Miranda rights, and they must be read to you in any situation when your personal freedoms are obstructed or restricted, most commonly when being arrested.  
However, for what is relative to Flynn, the Fifth Amend-
ment protects one from testifying or providing evidence in 
a situation that may elicit self-incrimination. This allowed 
Flynn to deny providing documents from the Senate Intel-ligence Committee’s subpoena.  
What I want to know is, where does the Senate Intelli-
gence Committee go from here? Since they cannot request the potentially self-incriminating documents from Flynn, is it possible that they can find another person with access to the documents and serve a subpoena to him or her? If this isn’t possible, then what? To me, an uneducated individual 
of law, it seems like Flynn cannot lose in this situation, and I 
may be suffering from a lack of objectiveness, but this whole situation seems way too fishy. Flynn requesting immunity seems like he may be hiding something that is incriminating.  
I would greatly appreciate any reply. A request from UF law students, staff or graduatesColumnIt’s been a wild week for President Donald Trump’s admin-istration. For the first time since Election Day, many of us received a news notification that didn’t make us feel sick to our stomachs or look into the process of becoming a Ca-nadian citizen. The word “impeachment” flooded headlines 
early last week, and it filled some of our hearts with hope.
While we were overjoyed, we can’t say we were surprised. 
Citizens have been questioning the date of Trump’s inevita-ble impeachment before he was even sworn into office. Last Wednesday, a Democratic congressman from Texas finally said what we were all thinking and officially called on the U.S. House of Representatives to begin impeachment proceedings against Trump.
After news broke that, according to memos kept by former 
FBI Director James Comey, Trump had attempted to influence an ongoing investigation, U.S. representatives began to further question how trustworthy our president really is. U.S. Rep. Al Green accused the president of obstructing a lawful investiga-tion into possible ties between his campaign and Russia that affected the U.S. election. Green dubbed the offense an “im-peachable act” and immediately had Americans in a frenzy over the possibility of Trump abdicating his throne.
As much as we’d love to see Trump leave office, we aren’t 
so sure this will solve many of the issues Americans fear under his presidency. If he was forced to leave office, Vice President Mike Pence is next in line to serve our country as commander in chief. 
A lot of the absurdity that encompasses Pence and his views 
was somewhat overlooked during the election. When your running mate is talking about “grabbing p----” and “building walls,” your own misogynistic transgressions and narrow-minded stances on issues pale in comparison. 
Not only does Pence not support organizations such as 
Planned Parenthood, but as governor of Indiana, he passed the most restrictive abortion regulations in the country. In fact, he has said publicly he “longs for the day that Roe v. Wade is sent to the ash heap of history.” Excuse me? In the words of “Friends” character Rachel Green, “No uterus, no opinion.”
As a congressman, he refused to support federal funding that 
would help people suffering from HIV and AIDS unless the gov-ernment also funded programs that partake in gay conversion 
therapy.  He has resisted efforts to alter hate crime laws so that 
acts harming the LGBTQ+ community would be included. 
Pence’s faults go far beyond the ones previously mentioned; 
that was just brushing the surface. We’d say just about the only redeeming quality Pence has is that he’s not Trump. It also is worth mentioning that while his political track record isn’t something worth celebrating, he at least has experience as a politician. However, his background in politics makes his behavior that much worse.
We aren’t saying that Trump shouldn’t be impeached, but 
getting rid of him won’t fix our problems. At this point, we’re in too deep with his administration to solve anything by removing  any one man. 
Pence’s acute awareness and political experience could make 
him even worse for the U.S. than Trump. The truth is, while we would love to see Trump defeated and his devoted followers proven wrong, his impeachment will give us nothing other than gloating rights and a slightly less embarrassing leader.Will impeaching 
Trump change 
anything?
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays. James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Our thoughts on Harry’s style
His new album gives fans a new sound, pg. 10Tribute for local artist, musician 
The exhibit will open Friday at 7 p.m., pg. 8By Isabelle Resnik  
Avenue Writer
The gentlemen of Ozona 
would ﬁ  rst like the world to know 
that they are not a reggae band. 
In the year they’ve been together, 
each of the six current and former UF students have brought their histories and experiences to the 
band, many of which began in 
their hometown churches. 
Despite their most recent ac-
colade being the opening act for the Wailers, consisting of the re-
maining members of Bob Marley 
& the Wailers, Ozona has created a sound that cannot yet be re-stricted to a single genre. 
“The ﬁ  rst songs we made 
were reggae, but I’ve been very open to the inﬂ  uence that every-one brings, and now our music is transforming to more of (a  
rhythm and blues,) electronica, 
hard hip-hop sound with west-coast funk vibes,” lead singer Louie Dager said. “I just want to 
get people dancing at our shows.”
The band began when guitar-
ist Justin Zimmerman met drum-
mer Ryan Chizmar at Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar. Chizmar in-
troduced Zimmerman to Dager, 
whom he had been writing music with since 2014. The band began as Ozone but changed to Ozona 
when two of its members left 
Gainesville for internships. Then, enter Jonathan Dominique and Kenny Ramos. 
“Jonathan, a church player his 
whole life, brings the soul to the music, that R&B church feel with the pretty cadences,” Dager said. “And then Kenny came in with 
his harmonious hardcore guitar 
riffs. When we saw what they could do, we knew we couldn’t be just reggae.” 
The band’s rapper, Navarr 
Robinson, said he agrees.“If you listen to my boy Ryan 
drum, it’s constant head banging. 
So if you put us in a box, we’re 
going to end up jumping out of that box,” he said.
Robinson, also known as 
Digitz Blessed No. 7, met Dager 
while working at a Holiday Inn 
hotel. Upon giving Dager his mix-tape, Dager invited Robinson to rap on one of their songs. Seeing 
his potential, they invited him to 
be a full-time member, and Rob-inson signed Ozona to Heavy Dis-ciples Crew Entertainment, the label he and his mother own.
The boys, though most have 
only known each other for a year, 
say every interaction of theirs 
inevitably becomes a business meeting, but any stranger can see their camaraderie is more of a brotherhood. 
No member forgets to men-tion that Ramos has untapped music engineering skills to rival 
that of Dager, and that, although 
Dominique claims his music the-ory knowledge background is all from YouTube, he actually has been taught by some of the best.
“We don’t currently have a 
manager, but (Dager) has taken care of a lot of those responsi-bilities,” Robinson said. “We do 
have our own things we take on, 
though, and in the end, because of each of the things we contrib-ute, we work like a well-oiled 
machine.”
Chizmar said what each of the  
members bring to the band isn’t 
limited to music and business.
“For example, I’ve played on 
the same drum kit since ﬁ  fth grade — the ﬁ  rst kit I ever played drums on. In the last year, I ﬁ  -nally put together enough money to buy something new. (Dager) 
drove me to every music store in the area to ﬁ  nd the best one, and 
I spent every penny I had on it,”  
he laughed. “I didn’t eat for a few 
days after that.” 
“There’s nothing I wouldn’t 
do for these boys, and I’m conﬁ  -dent to say they’d do anything for 
me. I’ve had times where I had 
nothing, and I didn’t want to tell anyone I’d been struggling, but the boys check in on me,” Dager 
said. “Kenny will, without ques-
tion, say to me, ‘Dude, here’s $20, get some food in you,’ or Ryan will cook something for me if he knows I haven’t eaten.” 
Ozona recorded their ﬁ  rst ex-
tended play, which was released April 20, at Skylab Recording Studios, where Dager works as a 
sound engineer. The EP was re-
corded live, with all instruments accompanying Dager’s vocals, 
Frank Sinatra style. 
At Skylab, Andrew White of 
Gainesville-bred band Morning 
Fatty, along with sound engineer 
Travis Lindsey, have become 
mentors to the boys. 
“Drew and (Lindsey) are some 
of the most talented and humble 
people we know. (Lindsey) has 
done so much for us and asks for nothing in return,” Dager said.
From Zimmerman and Dager’s 
fathers’ investments, to Pastor 
Betsy Miller of Holy Disciples of 
Christ and Skylab owner Gerry King’s mentorship, the fairly new band is eager to express their 
thanks for the people who have 
helped them get “this nervous and excited feeling in our stom-achs, because we all have the sense that something really great is coming for us.” 
Ozona plays its ﬁ  rst weekend 
tour in Sarasota and Fort Myers on Friday and Saturday, respec-tively. High Dive will feature the band June 10, where they will 
open for Paciﬁ  c Dub. Updates 
on future shows can be found on Instagram and Facebook @ozon-aboys. 
The band is currently working 
on their ﬁ  rst studio long-play al-Local band Ozona’s musical diversity has something for all
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
 Ozona, a local Gainesville band, has spent the past year developing their unique sound, which incorporates genres of all kinds.
bum, “Current Feels,” which will premiere sometime in the fall. Until then, their 3-track EP can be 
found at soundcloud.com/ozon-
aboys..  .  .
.  .  .8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Lennie Kesl would have been 91 
years old next month, but we don’t have 
to wait to celebrate his life.
This Friday, the Black C Art Gallery, 
located at 201 SE Second Ave., will host a tribute exhibit in honor of Lennie, co-
inciding with Artwalk Gainesville, the self-guided tour of Gainesville’s galleries 
and businesses that support art.
The exhibit is free to the public, 
opening at 7 p.m. after a birthday party held in honor of Lennie for his friends 
and family, said Allison VanDenend, the 
director of the gallery.
Leonard Kesl, affectionately known 
as Lennie, born on June 12, 1926, was the Gainesville music and art commu-
nity’s “favorite son,” according to his obituary. He passed away in November 2012 after creating a legacy as an artist, musician, father and friend to everyone.
This celebratory show has been in 
the works for many months. The found-er of the gallery, Ani Collier, ﬁ  rst wanted 
to build a show around Lennie back in 
September 2016. A commemorative ex-
hibit was then planned around Lennie’s 
birthday, beginning May 26 and ending July 22.
The exhibit will feature more than 30 
works from a local, private collection. These will include paintings, ink draw-
ings, etchings, collages and sculptures. 
Like all great birthday parties, there will be cake, VanDenend said.
“I didn’t have the pleasure of meet-
ing him, but in doing all the research for the show, I think I know him and his spirit,” she said.
At the tribute, Lennie’s musician 
friends will perform some of his favorite songs, like “Ain’t Misbehavin’” and “Ex-actly Like You.”
One of those musicians is Cathy De-
Witt, senior musician in residence at UF Health Arts in Medicine. DeWitt began 
playing music with Lennie in the early 
1980s.
She said Lennie ﬁ  rst played the 
drums in their band and would often be 
distracted by anyone who would walk 
in the door.
“He would sit at his drum set, and 
we’d be up on stage at some bar or club, 
and somebody would come in the door … and he’d wave his sticks in the air.,” 
she said. “One time, he literally fell off 
the stage doing that.”
Anyone who knew Lennie could 
tell you about his wealth of knowledge about jazz music. He had an amazing Local artist and musician to 
be honored in tribute exhibit
ART
Courtesy to the AlligatorRight: One of the 
paintings that will 
be displayed in the gallery, which gives a personal glimpse into Kesl’s family life.
SEE 
ARTIST,  PAGE 9THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
He passed away in November 2012
memory for these kinds of de-
tails, his daughter Diana Kesl said.
“He was like an encyclope-
dia of jazz,” she said. “He could name any musician, when he was born, when he died, where 
he played, what he played. He 
could even remember lyrics.”
While Lennie might have 
been distracted while drum-ming, this wasn’t the case with his singing, DeWitt said. Every 
song he’d sing would never be 
the same twice. Because he de-
veloped relationships with the 
songs he sung, the emotions dur-ing these were all encompassing.
But his voice wasn’t exactly 
beautiful, she said. He had a raspy voice ﬁ  lled with emotion 
that didn’t hold back.
“It’s not (like) a crooner, like 
a Frank Sinatra or a Harry Con-nick  (Jr.),” she said. “It’s very 
unique. The thing that would 
really grab me about it is the 
emotion and the genuineness of what he was singing, what he 
was feeling.”
Ironically, Kesl said her father 
thought otherwise.
“Music was probably his ﬁ  rst 
love or a close love to art,” she 
said. “He thought he was the next Frank Sinatra.”
When describing her father’s 
art, the word happy usually comes to mind, Kesl said.
“He captures the spirit of hu-
manity with his people, mostly ladies because he loved the la-dies,” she said.
DeWitt reiterated that fact 
by saying that joy and vibrancy shine through his work, affecting whoever views it.
She recalled that after the 
Sept. 11 attacks, she found 
herself walking around feeling numb, depressed. But when she walked into an exhibit Lennie had at the University Gallery, she had a moment of revelation.
“I felt this energy, and it was 
the ﬁ  rst time I felt joy again, 
and that was kind of a power-
ful epiphany for me that visual art can make you feel this way,” she said. “I believe that people’s energy gets transferred into peo-
ple’s paintings. And Lennie was 
like a bundle of energy.”
Lennie projected humanity 
into the many mediums he took on. Kesl’s favorite medium of her father’s was his ceramics be-
cause of their functionality and 
beauty. She has some hung in her home.
“They’re just smiling down at 
me,” she said.
Relationships were impor-
tant in Lennie’s life. Whatever was going on, he wanted to be 
a part of it, DeWitt said, and he 
made sure to remember details about people’s lives, leaving them notes or dropping off books that he thought they might have 
liked.
Some of the things that De-
Witt cherishes are little hand-
written notes with drawings 
and funny spellings of words on 
them that Lennie gave to her.
Kesl remembers how difﬁ  cult 
it was sometimes to go out with 
her father because of the amount 
of time he would spend talking to people.
“When we’d go places, he 
was Mr. Congeniality,” she said. “He’d know somebody, and 
he’d start talking to them. He’d 
remember their name. He’d re-member facts about them even if 
he only met them one time.”
The impact that Lennie left on 
the arts and music community 
in Gainesville is obvious. Local headlines hail him as “larger-
than-life” and “irrepressible.”
His works can be found in the 
Museum of Modern Art in New York City and all over the U.S. 
But, most of all, he was a local artist, a father and a grandfather 
who loved carrot cake.
He was a man who would run 
down rabbit trails, eager to tell 
you something.
“You’d say goodbye to him 
on the phone, and you’d be talk-ing another 30 or 40 minutes,” 
his daughter said. “It was hard 
for him to say goodbye.”
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Another one of the paintings that will be displayed in the gallery.
ARTIST,  from pg. 810   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
With the release of Harry Styles’ self-titled solo al-
bum May 12, it is safe to say One Direction is never, 
ever getting back together. 
However, with more than 7.6 million albums sold 
in the U.S. alone, attempting a solo career after leaving 
a successful band like One Direction is not always well 
executed.
Each member of the band has drifted away from 
the upbeat pop sound that was synonymous with the teenager-oriented group. In the case of fellow former bandmates Liam Payne and Niall Horan, listeners are left confused and unimpressed. 
Horan’s singer-songwriter approach to his ﬁ  rst sin-
gle, “This Town,” aligned with his vocal ability and 
afﬁ  nity for guitar playing, despite it’s resemblance to 
“Hey There Delilah” by the Plain White T’s. Then his recent release, “Slow Hands,” is a heavily produced track that is too messy to accurately place into a genre.
In Payne’s collaboration with rapper Quavo, “Strip 
That Down,” I was more interested in Quavo’s verse than Payne’s awkwardly forced rhythm and blues sound. It’s almost as if the bandmates promised not to overlap in genre upon taking the hiatus, and Payne 
pulled the short straw and was forced to attempt R&B.Thankfully, Styles developed a sound that compli-
ments his expanded vocal and instrumental abilities. 
The album, which derives its main inspiration from 
‘60s-era British rock, has enough variation in track 
styles to remain interesting without leaving listeners puzzled.
His ﬁ  rst single, “Sign of the Times,” sounds eerily 
like a David Bowie piano ballad with its strong vocals and powerful instrumentals in the climax of the song.
“Sweet Creature” and “From the Dining Table” 
have a slow, acoustic sound that resembles the Beatles, whereas tracks like “Kiwi” and “Only Angel” are heavy 
rock ’n’ roll tracks.
The eclectic sound of this album introduces fans 
to a new side of Styles’ musical ability in a way that 
seems more natural for the artist than the music re-leased by One Direction.  
In his movie with Apple Music, “Behind the Al-
bum,” Styles describes his approach to creating his al-bum post-One Direction. 
“I kind of wanted to see if I could write something 
that people liked without knowing everything about me,” Styles said. 
Despite staying out of the spotlight, Styles’ new 
sound and expanded musical ability give listeners more from the artist than the almost manufactured sound of One Direction. And that’s what makes this album beautiful. A new direction for Harry Styles
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The album cover of Harry Styles’ debut, self-titled solo album.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Apt for rent 720 NW 19th Ave. Available July 
1. 2BR/1BA, W/D, completely remodeled, 
large backyard. Monthly rent $685, $800 
security deposit. Call 352-371-3473. Please 
leave message  6-6-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsGOODBIKE / 2 Locations
Bicycle Sales and Service
425 NW 13th St ● 352-792-6600
210 NW 10th Ave ● 352-327-3727Big selection of new & used bikes    5-23-17-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
HEAVY EQUIPMENT AUCTION Wednesday 
June 7th, 9:30 AM, 5240 Kauloosa Ave, Tuscaloosa, AL 35405.  Excavators, Dozers, Loaders, Motor Graders, Ag Tractors, Box Trucks, Truck Tractors and Trailers 678-673- 9194 www.joeymartinauctioneers.com AL1830     5-25-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-121For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage $950 mo
Walk to UF. Off street parking. Avail now.We require a first, last and a $500 sec to move in. $40 app/credit check. No Pets 332-5836 weekdays    5-30-17-6-2
Takeover my lease and I'll give you $500. 
3bd/2bath apartment available for sublease at Boardwalk Apartments starting June 2017. Rent is $999. Call (786)445-6444 for more information.     5-30-17-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed2For Rent
unfurnishedCASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-
3901    6-13-17-8-12
2010 Acura TL *NAVI**REAR CAMERA* 
3.7L V6 Gas Automatic AWD White 70k miles 4.300$ (352) 388-7246     7-6-17-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Wanted someone to complete building a website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14
Designated drivers are the greatest********Opus Coffee**********
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal-ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr. To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     5-25-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) to assist Quadriplegic w/ADL activities PT: 2-3 providers needed6 AM-10 AM; 12-16 hours weekly $17-$20 hour; CNA or EquivalentContact: caregiverprovider@cox.net     5-30-5-14
Ground Floor Opportunity forMD/DC/PA/ARNP/AP - New Integrated Medicine Clinic.PT/FT. All inquiries strictly confidential. eMail: groundfloor2016@gmail.com    6-1-17-5-14
Farm Help Wanted:
Experience operating yard/farm mainte-
nance equipment required; 8-10 hrs per 
week (Fridays and weekends) ; private farm in Alachua, Florida; must provide own trans-portation. 352-258-3571    6-6-17-5-14
ACROSS
1 Reggae relative
4 Amount before
deductions
9 Unpleasant
14 “U R funny!”
15 Vital supply line16 Throat dangler17 Bran source18 Virginia politician
for whom auniversity isnamed
20 Ride on runners22 __ Testamento23 Custard base24 Magical literary
orphan
27 Meeting vote28 Falls phenomena33 “Close to You”
singer
39 Old World Style
sauce
40 Formal orders
41 Pet peeve?
42 “Westworld”
actress (who
complements 
33-Across?)
45 Analyze, in a way
46 __ Lingus47 1960 Olympic
boxing goldmedalist (whocomplements 24-Across?)
55 Like the name
“Will,” for anestate lawyer
58 Get behind59 If-then-__:
programmer’sflow
60 “Basic Instinct”
star (who
complements 18-Across?)
64 Letters between
names
65 Where
“Ratatouille” wascooked up
66 Refuge
67 Came together68 Not at all
trustworthy
69 Glacial ridge
70 Agency creations
DOWN
1 Walk through
puddles2 It isn’t really a
bear
3 Make different
4 __ order
5 Sushi topper6 Home of Stephen
King’s alma
mater
7 Structural
support
8 “Full House” star
Bob
9 “Think of it as an
indulgence”
10 Oscar-nominated
director
DuVernay
11 Subterfuge
12 Uphill climb13 Pal around (with)19 Big night21 Dress rehearsals25 “__-haw!”26 It is really a bear
29 Effective, as a
rule
30 D-Day city
31 Set up for a drive32 Mrs., in Madrid
33 Polynesian
intoxicant
34 Seaweed product
35 Pres. title36 Günther’s gripe37 Hwy., e.g.
38 Micronesian
republic
39 Weightlifter’s unit43 Parish house44 Director
Anderson
48 Prince Valiant’s
son
49 Beyoncé’s “I
Am... __ Fierce”
50 Lute kin51 “How do __ thee?”52 Camel relative53 Sought answers54 “I Am of Ireland”
poet
55 Nile hazards56 Knight who 
co-founded Nike
57 One in an airport
line
61 Bash62 Amount after
deductions
63 Chemical suffix
By Victor Barocas©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/25/1705/25/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 25, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00
Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.
Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.
Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     5-25-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
MINI DACHSHUND - 8 weeks old. Veterinary 
certified. All 1st shots. 3 males, 3 females. 2 fem - black dapple long hair; 3 males - pie-balds short hair. $225 each. Melrose area. 
Call 352-473-7581    5-23-17-1-24
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL connection.     5-25-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: June 5, 2017 at 5:00 p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation – 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-
lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Mike Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.      5-25-1-20
**SHARE**SHOP**SUPPORT
Join other women for a
*FREE* evening of sharing, inspiring each 
other and celebrating our gifts.
WOMEN OF THE WORLD
May 27th, 5:30-8:30pm
Held at: Florida School of Massage
6421 SW 13th St, Gainesville
(352) 222-6040
RAFFLE SUPPORTING LOCAL CHARITIES
● Peaceful Paths
● Days for Girls International
Dance Performances * Song
Inspirational Sharing
Women Entrepreneurs
presenting our WORLD MARKET *
5-25-1-20Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
NORTHFLO CROSSFIToffering UF staff and student student dis-count. $99 dollars a month. We also offer personal training and nutrition. Call Today 352-470-9131    5-23-17-5-15
Heavy Equipment operatortraining in as little as 3 weeks!Backhoe, Loader, Dozer, Excavator, & Crane.VA benefits eligible.(877) 636-9995 or visitcareers.heavyequipmentcollege.com    5-25-1-15
AVIATION CAREERS Hands on training for 
career opportunities in aviation, manufactur-
ing and more. Financial aid for qualified stu-
dents. Job placement assistance. Call AIM 
866-314- 5838     5-25-1-15
1. HISTORY: What charge did Spiro 
Agnew plead no contest to after he 
resigned as U.S. vice president in 
1973?
2. BUSINESS: What company man-
ufactured the Walkman portable audio 
cassette/tape players?
3. U.S. POLITICS: Who was Gerald 
Ford’s running mate in 1976?
4. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
seconds are in a year?
5. LANGUAGE: What is a tonsure?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What group of 
islands does Tahiti belong to?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What does the Hornbostel-Sachs sys-tem do?
8. ENTERTAINERS: What actress/
TV host was born with the name Caryn Johnson?
9. EXPLORERS: Who was the first 
person to fly solo between Hawaii and the continental United States?
10. ANATOMY: What is a common 
name for the patella?
Answers
1. Income-tax evasion2. Sony3. Bob Dole4. 31 million5. A shaved head6. Society Islands
7. It classifies musical instruments.
8. Whoopi Goldberg9. Amelia Earhart10. Kneecap
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 22, 2017 King Features Weekly Service19 Connections 15 Services 16 Health Services 15 Services 21 Entertainment
THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The men's and women's track 
& ﬁ  eld teams kick off NCAA Preliminary action today at 4 p.m. KeAndre Bates  will look to 
build off his SEC championship. Read the story, pg. 16.Women's tennis ﬁ  nishes ﬁ  rst round of NCAA singles
Anna Danilina, Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock won their opening 
match of the NCAA Women's Singles Championship on Wednesday, while 
Kourtney Keegan and Ingrid Neel lost.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsCourtesy of UAA Communications
Florida celebrates after its 4-2 win against Vanderbilt in the NCAA semiﬁ  nals on Monday at the Lindsey Hopkins Indoor Courts in Athens, Georgia.
WOMEN'S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
In his ﬁ  rst press conference of the season, coach 
Roland Thornqvist said he thought this year’s 
Gators women’s tennis team was the best team 
he’s had in his 16 years at Florida. On Tuesday night, they lived up to that proclamation by giving 
the program its seventh national championship.
However, Florida’s season could’ve been 
marked a success with or without the national championship it won. Going 29-3 overall and 11-2 in the conference, the Gators held the No. 1 ranking 
all season long, which was no simple task.
Florida played 17 of the current top-25 teams 
during the regular season, with seven of them being non-conference opponents. Florida also played what Thornqvist described as “an NBA-like 
schedule” in February, which saw the team travel to 
California, win the National Indoor Championship in Connecticut and cap the month off by beating 
both the defending national champion and  National Champions: A look 
back at Florida's 2017 campaign
SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 15
SOFTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After Oklahoma State forced 
a  winner-takes-all game in the 
NCAA Gainesville Regional, the 
No. 1-seeded Gators softball team turned to its senior pitcher to get the job done.
Delanie Gourley had pitched 
a no-hitter through ﬁ  ve innings against Florida A&M in the ﬁ  rst game of the NCAA Regional and watched as Kelly Barnhill struck out 15 batters in the second game 
against Oklahoma State.
But after the Cowgirls took a 
1-0 victory over Barnhill in game 
three of the regional, it was all 
up to Gourley to save Florida's 
season.
Continuing her recent stretch 
of strong play in the postseason, the Lakeside, California, native struck out 11 and allowed one hit en route to a 5-0 win. 
“That’s for this weekend too,” 
Gourley said on bringing her performance from the regionals to the super regionals. “I’m going to give it my all. Our team is going 
to give it their all cause not one of 
our players is done.”
With regionals behind them, 
the Gators (53-7) can now focus on their last roadblock to the Women’s College World Series: No.16-seeded Alabama.
The Crimson Tide (45-16) 
swept through the Tuscaloosa Regional, which included two close 1-0 wins against Minnesota.
Alabama had pitching 
performances almost on par with Florida, allowing just one run in three games and surrendering only 10 hits.
“Alabama has a great pitching staff, but I think what works in our favor is that we have a great pitching staff, too,” outﬁ  elder 
Amanda Lorenz said. “So we’re 
used to facing them every week in practice. If we can learn to hit our pitchers, we can hit other pitchers 
too.”
While both teams are ready for 
tonight's contest at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium, there is still a 
 Gators set to face Alabama in Super Regional at home
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15Roger Goodell has 
screwed up a lot of 
things during his tenure 
as commissioner of the National Football League.
He pathetically 
suspended Ray Rice a meager two games after the former running back punched his then-ﬁ  ancé 
Janay Palmer in the face.
He denied for years that playing 
football can lead to C.T.E., a 
degenerative disease in the brain that can cause chronic headaches, 
dementia and suicidality.
And let’s not forget the mess that 
was deﬂ  ategate, a two-year long 
scandal involving the air pressure of Patriots’ footballs that was so 
laughable and childish, New England 
fans tried to sue the NFL.
Literally.
That’s not a joke to add a light, 
comedic touch to this column. Patriot fans actually tried to sue Goodell and the NFL.
But that’s neither here nor there 
because, for once, the commissioner of the most valuable sports league in the world did something right. He decided that players can once again show human emotion and celebrate after scoring a touchdown.
In years past, Goodell and the 
league have tried cracking down on such activities, penalizing players if they use the ball as a prop, dance as a group or perform other “excessive” displays such as making a snow angel in the end zone.
But, much to the pleasure of every football fan on the 
planet, all of that is now 
fair game.
At the NFL owners 
meeting on Tuesday, 
Goodell informed teams 
that the league will relax 
its stance on touchdown 
celebrations after years of complaints from players, coaches and 
fans.
Referees will still ﬂ  ag players for 
throat slashes and mimicking the use of a weapon, as well as sexually suggestive demonstrations, but other 
than that, we no longer have to worry 
about 15-yard penalties for harmless 
displays of excitement.
It’s about damn time Roger 
Goodell.
Like seriously, why was any 
of that stuff ever not allowed? No wonder the NFL is referred to by many as the No Fun League.
I can understand Goodell wanting 
to establish a set of ground rules to maintain respect and honor to the game of football, but touchdown celebrations have become a mainstay on Sunday afternoons.
There is nothing more entertaining 
than watching Ezekiel Elliott leap into a Salvation Army donation kettle after scoring a two-yard touchdown against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
It’s about time he wasn't penalized 
for doing so.
Dylan Dixon is sports editor 
of the Alligator. His column will appear frequently on Tuesdays  and Thursdays.Roger Goodell has finally 
done something rightYou’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
twitter: @dylanrdixonlittle bit of uncertainty from both 
sides.
The Crimson Tide and the 
Gators didn’t play each other in 
the 2017 regular season, with 
their last meeting resulting in a 2-1 series win for Alabama in April 2016. 
But with a new year comes a 
new set of circumstances.
Barnhill was still in her 
freshman campaign, and the Gators had five seniors in the 
lineup while the Tide had four.
So while the pitching hasn’t 
changed much, the batters and 
the fielders have, making this matchup feel different than before.
Florida will also be looking for 
different than what it did in last 
year' super regional, where it fell 
to Georgia in a two-game sweep, cutting its quest for a third-straight national championship short.
“I don’t think you really can 
learn anything from that because 
it was a team that beat us,” 
coach Tim Walton said. “They were better than we were on that 
particular two days. This isn’t 
the same team nor is it the same opponent.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill stares down home plate during Florida's 5-0 win 
against Georgia on April 8 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
MEN'S TENNIS
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Alfredo Perez will advance to 
the second round of the NCAA 
Singles Championship for a second 
straight year.
A season ago, Perez entered 
NCAA singles play ranked No. 53 overall in the country and fell 
to Petros Chrysochos of Wake 
Forest on day two of the national tournament.
In 2017, however, the Havana, 
Cuba, native looks primed for a 
deeper run in the competition.Perez opened play on 
Wednesday as the No. 6 seed of the 
bracket and defeated Illinois’ Aron Hiltzik by a score of 6-4, 6-1.
The first set was kept close 
and remained on serve until Perez captured a late break, giving him 
a 5-4 lead and allowing himself to 
serve out the set. 
The sophomore then asserted 
his dominance throughout the second set. He served well and 
played with aggression, making 
critical plays at the net to take a commanding 5-0 lead. Hiltzik 
was able to avoid the shutout by capturing a service game, but that 
allowed Perez to serve out the set once again, clinching the victory and a spot in the Round of 32.
The Gators’ star will next face 
TCU’s No. 20-ranked Alex Rybakov today at 9 a.m. Perez will also 
compete with doubles partner 
Johannes Ingildsen at 1:30 p.m. when they face UC Santa Barbara’s Simon Freund and Morgan Mays in the opening round of the NCAA 
Doubles Championship.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFlorida’s Perez advances to second 
round of NCAA singles
SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14UF  faces 'Bama tonight
defending runner-up at home. 
The Gators could attribute a large part of their 
success to doubles play this season. 
Florida was nearly unstoppable in the doubles 
portion of dual matches, clinching the opening point 
28 times out of 32 total contests. On top of that, UF 
held a 27-1 record when winning the opening point.
Florida’s season was also characterized by its 
experience and leadership. Of the eight players on its 
roster, seven of them were upperclassmen, including three seniors in Belinda Woolcock, Kourtney Keegan and Spencer Liang.
However, many highlights from the season came 
from Florida’s lone freshman, Ingrid Neel. Neel shined 
the brightest during the two biggest moments of the 
Gators’ season: the National Indoor Championship title match and the National Championship. In both 
matches, Neel clinched the final point while playing 
top competitors. 
However, the Gators’ season didn’t come without 
hardships. After holding the NCAA active record for most 
consecutive wins at home with 163, Florida let the 
streak slip to Georgia on March 17 in a 4-1 defeat at 
the Ring Tennis Complex.
And until the NCAA tournament, Florida was 
unable to get past Vanderbilt in both the regular 
season and the SEC tournament. Losing 4-2 in the 
last match of the regular season and 4-3 in the SEC championship game, Florida was finally able to avenge 
the Commodores 4-2 in the Final Four. 
Returning four of its usual starting six in the singles 
lineup, the Gators will look to build on the success 
of this year. However, the dynamic will look very different as Florida is set to bring in three freshman next season, including standout junior circuit player 
Victoria Emma from Naples.
Despite the changing landscape of the team, Florida 
will still be able to look to Neel, Brooke Austin and Anna Danilina as its leaders in 2018. 
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.orgWOMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg. 14Florida won the doubles point 28 times16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
In a year that had its fair share of successes, 
the Gators women’s golf team ultimately 
watched its season come to a devastating close on Tuesday morning.
Facing Arizona State in the quarterﬁ  nals 
of the NCAA Championship in Sugar Grove, Illinois, Florida fell to the Sun Devils 5-0 in a blowout defeat.
The loss concluded a season that featured 
ﬁ  ve ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nishes, including an SEC championship, as well as a tie for ﬁ  rst in the NCAA Regional.
Even with the letdown in match play, senior 
Maria Torres was honored as a First-Team 
All-American by the Women’s Golf Coaches 
Association. This is the ﬁ  rst time since 2007 that a Gators women’s golfer earned the accolade. 
The Gators were no strangers to comebacks 
this season. In the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Championships, Florida came back from being down seven strokes against eventual runner-up Illinois in the ﬁ  nal round to win the competition by ﬁ  ve strokes. The Gators also sat in third place after day one of the SEC Championship before posting team scores of 8 under and 10 under in rounds two and three, respectively, to beat second-place Alabama by 13 strokes.
All of this goes without mentioning the 
massive comeback in the NCAA Championships, where the Gators managed to climb the leaderboard from 16th place to 5th place in two days to narrowly advance into match play. 
Coach Emily Glaser returns Taylor Tomlinson 
and a slew of talented underclassmen to next season’s roster and said the team ought to be proud of what it accomplished in 2016-17.
“We had a great year,” Glaser said in a 
release. “You never want it to end, but we have a lot to be proud of and no one should be hanging their heads.”
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFlorida women’s golf: Season  in review
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Nearly two weeks after producing a trio of 
SEC outdoor champions in junior KeAndre Bates, junior Lloydricia Cameron and senior Kyra Jefferson, Florida will see a total of 52 athletes compete in the NCAA East Preliminary.
The three-day competition beginning 
today in Lexington, Kentucky, will determine which athletes move on to the NCAA Outdoor Championships in June.
Last year, the Gators qualiﬁ  ed 21 individual 
athletes and made the cut in both the men’s and women’s 4x100 and 4x400 relays.
Bates will start as the top seed in both the 
triple jump and long jump, while Cameron is 
seeded seventh in the shot put and ninth in the 
discus throw.
In addition to being the top seed in the 
women’s 200-meter, Jefferson will also compete in the women’s 4x100 and 4x400 relays.  The Gators are ranked second and ﬁ  rst, respectively, in the two events.
The men’s team, a second seed in the 4x100 
relay and a four seed in the 4x400 relay, is headlined by seniors Eric Futch and TJ Holmes.
Futch and Holmes are also competing in the 
400-meter hurdles. A year ago, the duo made the NCAA cut as Futch took ﬁ  rst place while 
Holmes ﬁ  nished third.
For freshman Grant Holloway, the 
Chesapeake, Virginia, native is tied for the 
second seed in the 110-meters and trails only top-ranked teammate Bates in the preliminary long jump rankings.
Other Gators to enter the competition as a 
top-three seed include Yanis David (women’s triple jump), Marija Vucenovic (women’s javelin 
throw) and Andres Arroyo (men’s 800-meter).
Today’s competition will begin at 4 p.m., 
while Friday and Saturday’s action both begin 
at 2 p.m.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org UF track ready for NCAA Preliminary