We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorFlorida seeing jump in oﬀ  ensive 
production
UF’s baseball team faces TCU on Sunday to 
College World Series, pg. 18UF to hire 500 new faculty members
Student-to-faculty ratio will be 16-to-1 in next few years, pg. 4
The Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention 
$10 million museum to honor Gatorade inventor, pg. 5By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
To ward off bad spirits and keep her 
group protected, third-generation water 
carrier and 11-year-old Lily Smith smudged 
guests with sage at a Wednesday night wa-
ter ceremony at Depot Park, located at 200 
SE Depot Ave.
In the ﬁ  rst of many rituals to celebrate 
Depot Park’s water puriﬁ  cation system, 
two Grandmothers from indigenous tribes 
shared songs, poems and blessings to honor 
the importance of the four elements: water, 
air, ﬁ  re and earth.
Promoting the idea that “water is life,” 
Grandmother Mary Lyons of Minnesota 
and Grandmother Doreen Bennett of New 
Zealand have traveled the globe performing similar water ceremonies, where they sing, dance and explain how humans have devi-ated from the importance of water.
In the past year, worried that they would 
jeopardize clean drinking water and indig-enous land, Alachua County residents have 
taken to parking lots and street corners to 
protest the Dakota Access and Sabal Trail 
pipelines. The Sabal Trail pipeline, a 515-
mile natural-gas pipeline running through Alabama, Georgia and Florida, has spurred many recent protests in North Central Flori-da, according to Alligator archives. The Da-kota Access pipeline, which carries crude oil from North Dakota to Illinois, leaked 
84 gallons of oil in April, according to The 
Washington Post.
On Wednesday night, Lyons explained 
to about 30 people that humans are made up of the four elements, which play a vital role in our lives. She said when conceived, we are entered into water in our mothers’ womb. After birth, we breathe the air. The 
sun is ﬁ  re, which warms us and sustains life. Finally, we are plants of the Earth, and 
it is where we grow.
“The only thing we can honestly pass 
onto the next generation are those four messages,” Lyons said. “Those four mes-sages carry no prejudice.”
Cindi Harvey, Depot Park’s manager, 
said the park is part of a man-made water treatment system that extensively puriﬁ  es stormwater before it becomes drinking wa-ter for residents.  
“It makes me really proud of our city 
and what we’re doing to our stormwater before it becomes our drinking water,” Har-
vey said. “We’re doing a lot to protect our 
citizens.”
The part of the water puriﬁ  cation system 
that is located in Depot Park is the “heart-beat” of the park, Harvey said. It makes 
visitors recognize how great it is to have a city that thoroughly cleanses its stormwater before it becomes drinkable.
“This water ceremony is honoring the 
heartbeat of Depot Park, and something 
that is very important for our city,” Harvey 
said.
Gainesville resident Eleanor Briseno said 
this was very important because these forc-es of nature are in jeopardy because of the 
lack of commitment to uphold them. 
Briseno said she thought bringing the 
Grandmothers to Gainesville was a good idea because of the water puriﬁ  cation sys-
tem that goes through Depot Park. 
“I hope it’s a consciousness raising 
event,” Briseno said. “I hope that it’s also 
bringing (guests) into another realm of sa-cred understanding, connections and ap-preciation.”
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgVOLUME 111 ISSUE 155 THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff
Lily Smith, 11, welcomed guests at a Wednesday night water ceremony held at Depot Park, 
located at 200 SE Depot Ave., by smudging them with sage. At the ceremony, about 30 people sang, danced and discussed the importance of the four elements — especially water.
Water ceremony performed by indigenous leaders at Depot Park
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) — First 
came the ping of baseball bats, a fa-
miliar sound of the leafy neighbor-
hood’s morning. Then the crack of 
gunﬁ  re, which isn’t.
It started with a single pop, which 
for a split second was not alarming to the Republican members of Con-gress who had gathered for a ﬁ  nal practice before a charity baseball game with Democrats this week. As one lawmaker would later note, it 
could have been a car backﬁ  ring.
 Then, after a pause, the gun-
shots came in quick succession and 
the horror unfolded in the Del Ray neighborhood of Alexandria, home to many federal workers, lawyers and lobbyists who commute across the river to Washington.A congressman, two Capitol po-
lice ofﬁ  cers, a lobbyist and a legisla-tive aide were wounded as lawmak-ers, some ﬁ  ghting back tears, sought to understand what happened and why. In a hail of bullets, police killed the gunman.
“You never expect a baseball 
ﬁ  eld in America to feel like being 
back in a combat zone in Iraq,” said 
Ohio Rep. Brad Wenstrup, an Army reservist who served as a combat surgeon in Iraq and was on the ﬁ  eld Wednesday when the shooting be-gan. “But this morning it did.”
 They had gathered on this mug-
gy morning, trading suits and ties for sneakers and baseball caps, to prac-
tice for Thursday’s annual left-right 
match-up, a friendly Democratic-Republican rivalry for charity in a capital otherwise poisonous in its partisanship.
 Alabama Rep. Mo Brooks had 
bicycled 9 miles to make the 6:30 a.m. start. More than 20 Republican members from the House and Sen-ate showed up.
 The baseball park, home to the 
T.C. Williams High School Titans, sits in a lively part of Alexandria. On 
weekdays, locals head off to work 
and school. People come and go at the nearby YMCA. Homeowners stroll the sidewalks, walking their dogs. 
So it hardly seemed unusual 
when a man approached South Carolina Rep. Jeff Duncan in the baseball ﬁ  eld parking lot. His ques-
tion was pointed: “‘Excuse me sir, 
who’s practicing today? Democrats or Republicans?’” Duncan recalled. “And I said it’s the Republican team. He said, ‘OK, thanks,’ and turned around.” Duncan then left, saying later, “It was the guy they’ve identi-ﬁ  ed as the shooter.”
New Mexico Rep. Steve Pearce 
was taking swings in the batting cage along the ﬁ  rst base side when he no-ticed a bystander near the third base dugout. Within seconds, as Pearce 
left the batting cage and headed to-
ward the dugout, the shooting start-ed. “I saw the shooter clearly with his riﬂ  e, aimed and shooting around one corner of a building,” he said in a video statement.
Chaos ensued. Lawmakers dove 
for cover. Gravel bounced as shots hit the ground. From inside Swing’s 
coffee shop across from the ﬁ  eld, 
manager Jon Mosel described the popping of gunﬁ  re. “Then a wave of players frantically running. It was absolutely frantic. We didn’t know if they were being chased,” he said. The players ran from the ﬁ  rst base side of the ﬁ  eld across a basketball court and either jumped a fence into a nearby dog park or ran up the hill and crossed the street toward the coffee shop, he said.
Brooks hit the ground with a few 
others behind the batting cage, but realized that didn’t provide much cover. The gunman wasn’t spray-ing bullets but rather taking aim, so there was a “little bit of time be-tween shots.”
Louisiana Rep. Steve Scalise, 
the third-ranking Republican in the House, was ﬁ  elding balls on second 
base when a gunshot hit him, Ari-
zona Sen. Jeff Flake said. Fifty-one-year-old Scalise, serving his ﬁ  fth 
Morning baseball drill becomes an assault on Republicans
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonHIGH  88° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Graduation’ plays at the 
Hippodrome
“Graduation,” a movie centered around a father driven to ex-tremes to protect his daughter’s 
future, will have showings at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre from now until the end of the month. Tickets are $7 and can 
be purchased at the Hippodrome 
Box Office or online. For more 
information, visit tickets.the-
hipp.org/TheatreManager/1/login&event=1750.Become #InvolvedUF at 
GatormaniaThe largest Summer event on campus, Gatormania 2017, will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. on the North Lawn. Start Summer 
B with free food, giveaways and 
live performances showcasing a variety of student organizations and campus partners. The event is hosted by the Involvement Team, the ambassadors of the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. For more information, visit student-
involvement.ufl.edu.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.VOLUME 111 ISSUE 155
1
1312111098765432The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 7. Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, July 10 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the public on July 27 at 10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
GRU GENERAL MANAGER 
SAID SAVINGS COULD BE 
LOWER THAN 8 PERCENT. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Frustrated residents wanting 
to know more about Gainesville 
Regional Utilities’ nearly billion-
dollar buyout of a local biomass 
plant were able to ask public ofﬁ  -cials questions at a forum Tuesday 
evening. 
City-owned GRU’s controversial 
possible purchase of Gainesville 
Renewable Energy Center was dis-cussed in Pugh Hall’s Mackaye Au-
ditorium at 6 p.m. Tuesday, hosted by the Bob Graham Center for Pub-
lic Service, WUFT News and the Gainesville Sun. 
About 60 residents crowded the 
auditorium, eager to know why the city initially entered a 30-year $2.1 billion contract with GREC and 
how it plans to exit the contract. 
The forum’s panel, which was 
moderated by the Sun’s opinions 
editor Nathan Crabbe, consisted of GRU’s general manager, Ed Bie-
larski; the Utility Advisory Board’s 
chair, Darin Cook; and at-large 
Gainesville City Commissioner 
Harvey Budd. 
Bielarski told the audience that 
if GREC accepts it, he’s in favor of 
taking the $750 million buyout. 
“It unleashes us from the shack-
les that we’re now under for hav-
ing to absorb the $70-$75 million a 
year,” he said, referring to the an-
nual sum GRU must pay GREC for the next 27 years under the current 
contract. 
Cook and Budd disagreed with 
Bielarski, both saying they want to hold off on the $750 million buyout 
ﬁ  gure. Instead, they advocated for pursuing arbitration, a process by 
which a third party resolves a con-
tract dispute between two parties. 
Cook, whose job as the UAB 
chair is to give advice to the City Commission regarding utility deci-
sions, said GREC hasn’t undergone 
certain maintenance inspections 
during negotiations — and hasn’t 
explained why in any communica-
tions via email. 
“There’s probably something in 
there they don’t want to be seen,” Cook said. “I’d love to see those emails, but they haven’t provided them.”
Budd agreed with Cook, add-
ing that there is “smoke and ﬁ  re” 
surrounding the deal — something 
that hasn’t yet been uncovered by 
the city. Budd also commented on GREC President Jim Gordon’s 
character.
“We have an unwilling seller 
who’s a bit of a creep, in my opin-
ion,” Budd said.
Cook agreed, to some extent.
“Yes, I think he’s a creep, but I 
also think he’s a very smart man.” Cook said. 
The three panelists also dis-
cussed how utility rates for Gainesville residents would change if GRU should acquire the GREC 
plant. On its “Why Buy GREC” website, GRU said electric rates 
could drop by about 8 to 10 per-
cent.
However, at the forum, Bielar-
ski said some residents may reap savings even less than 8 percent.
“Some county residents (could) 
see as low as six,” he said, add-ing that it would depend on where 
they live.
Cook said he thinks any savings 
residents see in their bill would 
likely dissolve over the next ﬁ  ve 
years anyway because of inﬂ  ation.
Jon Reiskind, a former UF biol-
ogy professor, said he’s glad the panelists kept the conversation on the here and now. 
“Hindsight is cheap,” the 
77-year-old said. “A lot of people 
are still very angry about the deci-sion that was made in 2009 — and 
they have every right to be angry — but that time sucks, too.”
Reiskind, who’s lived in 
Gainesville for 50 years, said it 
wasn’t unreasonable for the city 
to think the contract was proﬁ  t-able when they began the process 
in 2009. 
Since then, U.S. investment in 
fracking made the price of natu-ral gas plummet, he said. He said 
no one eight years ago could have 
predicted that the price would drop 
and thus make GREC’s energy less 
valuable to the city. 
“That caught everybody off 
guard,” he said.
Gainesville resident Charoun-
son Saintilus was among the four 
young people in the audience Tues-
day night and was the only one to 
stay for the meeting’s duration. 
Saintilus, 24, said he tries to at-
tend as many City Commission and UAB meetings as he can, and he 
feels the city should do more to get 
the younger generation engaged.
“Whether or not we’re going 
to accept it, this is going to affect our utility bill perhaps a year from 
now,” he said. “I think folks have 
to come out, they have to listen, 
and they have to voice their opin-ions.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org GRU-GREC panel discusses buyout, audience voices concerns
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
From left: The Gainesville Sun’s opinions editor, Nathan Crabbe; the Utility Advisory Board’s chair, 
Darin Cook; Gainesville Regional Utitlies’ general manager, Ed Bielarski; and at-large Gainesville City Commissioner Harvey Budd. 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs said he plans to 
increase the faculty at UF by 500 people within 
the next few years.
“By hiring 500 faculty, we’ll move from a 
student-to-faculty ratio of 21-to-1 all the way 
down to 16-to-1,” he said. “It’ll make our 
teaching more effective, class sizes smaller and our faculty will have more time to conduct more research.”
The funding for the increase in faculty will 
cost $52 million, with any additional costs be-ing sought out by other resources, UF spokes-person Steve Orlando said. 
“We were fortunate enough to get some 
funding during this year’s legislative session — $52 million — and the point is that this will 
be used to accomplish two of our main goals,” 
Orlando said.
Although the Summer semester has seen 
the resignation of two top UF employees, Or-lando said this did not play a part in the deci-sion to hire new staff.
According to Fuchs, in many of the com-
parisons done by organizations, such as the Association of American Universities, UF is 
at the bottom when it comes to its student-to-
faculty ratio. 
He said the number of students at UF will 
not grow or decline, so his goal is to grow the faculty to help UF become part of the top ﬁ  ve public research universities in the nation.
“I’m very much committed,” he said.Emphasis will be put on hiring faculty in 
science, technology, engineering and math professions, as well as areas that focus on 
economic development and startups, Orlando 
said. 
Along with decreasing the student-to-facul-
ty ratio and having UF become a top research university, Fuchs said he also plans to pay UF employees based on merit and market at the level of UF’s competitors.
“We’re close there, but we’re behind,” he 
said. 
With Florida’s large population, Fuchs said 
he feels the state needs a university that is ranked highly nationwide.
“We are the highest-ranked university in 
the state — public or private,” he said, “and I really believe that a state that is No. 3 in popu-lation should at least have one university that ranks among the very, very best in the entire world.”In coming years, UF will hire 500 new faculty members
THREE MAIN GOALS OF HIRING
Teaching will be more effective
Class sizes will be reducedFaculty will have more time
for researchcongressional term, dragged himself 
10 to 15 yards into the outﬁ  eld to try to get away, Flake said, leaving a bloody trail.
Marty LaVor, a retired Capitol 
Hill worker, was taking pictures by ﬁ  rst base when he saw a man hold-ing a riﬂ  e behind a chain-link fence by third base. LaVor saw Scalise go down, then a Capitol police ofﬁ  cer.
LaVor got in the dugout.The 911 call went out at 7:09 
a.m. To those in the line of ﬁ  re, it seemed an eternity before city po-
lice arrived, but in reality it took 
just three minutes. Brooks said the Capitol ofﬁ  cers were armed only with pistols, and “taking on a guy with a riﬂ  e from 90-120 feet away. It wasn’t a fair ﬁ  ght.”
Three ofﬁ  cers from the Capitol Hill force were on the scene, two 
of them assigned to Scalise because 
of his position in House leadership. If not for that small security detail, lawmakers might have been pro-tected by just one Capitol ofﬁ  cer, perhaps watching from a car some distance away, until local forces ar-rived.
When Capitol police began ﬁ  ring, 
Brooks said they were so close that he initially feared a second shooter was involved. Congress members helped apply a tourniquet to the in-jured leg of Zachary Barth, legisla-tive correspondent for Texas Rep. Roger Williams, as the shooting con-tinued. Scalise, too, was attended to by his colleagues on the ﬁ  eld.
Katie Filous, an attorney who 
was walking her dogs near the ﬁ  eld, dropped to the ground when she heard “a lot of shots.” A uniformed ofﬁ  cer got out of a car, drew a hand-gun and shouted something to the 
assailant, she said. She saw the of-
ﬁ  cer get hit with a bullet and later evacuated by helicopter.
Three hours after the attack, 
Brooks still wore a batting glove, with dirt from lying face ﬁ  rst in the dugout still smeared across his navy blue T-shirt, as he and other lawmakers at the scene described 
the attack to the AP. Falisa Peoples, 
who teaches an exercise class at the YMCA, was walking to her car when she saw a man in shorts and a T-shirt ﬁ  ring. She thought, at ﬁ  rst, it was a drill or a paintball game.
“He was very calm,” she said. 
“He was just walking and shoot-ing as if it was just like he was 
practicing.” She recalled no other 
noise until she heard a police ofﬁ  -cer command, “Get down!” Peoples dropped her belongings and ran back to the Y, banging on the side door until someone let her in.
Tennessee Rep. Chuck Fleis-
chmann passed the shooter on his way into the dugout to hide. “He decided not to shoot me,” he would later tell CNN. “The fear factor was horriﬁ  c. There was blood all over, it was horrible.” He said if the gun-man had come after them in the dugout, “we would have been sit-
ting ducks.”
It was over in a matter of min-
utes. At least 70 shots could be 
heard in a video. Members of Con-gress credited the Capitol police of-ﬁ  cers with shooting the gunman, though authorities did not immedi-ately conﬁ  rm who shot him. He died in the hospital. 
Scalise underwent surgery for a 
wound to the hip, and was in criti-cal condition. Matt Mika, the lobby-ist and a former congressional aide, was also in critical condition with multiple wounds. Special Agents Da-
vid Bailey and Crystal Griner of the 
U.S. Capitol Police, as well as Barth, were expected to recover fully.
The attacker was identiﬁ  ed as 
James T. Hodgkinson of Illinois. Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders said on the Senate ﬂ  oor that Hodgkinson apparently was a volunteer for his campaign 
last year. Police are investigating the 
attacker’s motive, his associates and his social media posts.
Hours later, surrounded by crime 
scene tape, the ﬁ  eld was still set for batting practice. A crate full of base-balls sat near the pitcher’s mound, and balls were scattered on the ﬁ  eld among medical bags and supplies. 
Behind ﬁ  rst base, next to a large 
medical bag, sat a single baseball shoe.
Off the ﬁ  eld on the ﬁ  rst base side, 
a medical gurney.
BASEBALL,  from pg 1By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
After 13 years of planning, 10 
years of fundraising and nearly two 
years of construction, a museum 
commemorating one of the inven-
tors of Gatorade is set to open in Gainesville this spring.
The Cade Museum for Creativity 
and Invention, a $10 million build-ing on the corner of Depot Avenue and South Main Street, will honor nephrologist and former UF profes-sor Dr. Robert Cade, the man who 
led a team of researchers to create 
Gatorade more than 50 years ago.
Cade’s youngest of six children, 
the museum’s CEO and board presi-
dent Phoebe Miles, began planning 
for the two-story, 26,000-square-foot museum, located at 811 S. Main St., in 2004.
Fundraising for the building 
started in 2007, the same year Cade passed away. Over the course of nine years, funding was provid-ed by individual donors, Alachua 
County and investors part of the 
New Markets Tax Credit Program. By May 2016, construction of the museum began and Miles’ decade-long vision was put into action.
Cade, UF’s first kidney special-
ist, and three other researchers invented the popular sports drink in 1965 as a way to give the UF football team extra energy during practice and games, according to 
Alligator archives. Cade’s solu-
tion to Gators football players’ de-hydration problem was a formula of water, sodium, potassium and 
glucose, which ultimately became 
Gatorade.“I had the great fortune to grow 
up with an inventor as a father,” 
Miles said. “Wouldn’t it be great 
for every child in this town to have that access through a series of pro-grams, lab classes and events that are taught through and by inven-
tors and their inventions?”
The museum’s exhibits, pro-
grams and classes will cater toward 
the STEAM curriculum, which con-
sists of science, technology, engi-
neering, art and math, said Mu-seum Operations Director Leslie Ladendorf. The museum will offer hands-on experiences to comple-
ment the traditional visual expe-
rience and will emphasize “doing along with seeing,” Ladendorf said. 
The new building will be open 
to the public in spring 2018. The Cade Museum currently holds camps and classes that are held at the Cade Fab Lab and Cade Cre-ativity Lab office, located at 904 
S. Main St, across from the new 
building’s construction.
The tourism brought on by the 
new museum is aimed to augment 
the economic development of the 
city in addition to establishing na-tional recognition, Ladendorf said, adding that Gainesville is ranked No. 4 nationally for largest income 
disparity in a city.
Ladendorf said the building will 
have a positive impact in the com-
munity by highlighting the innova-
tion culture of Gainesville to the 
world.
“We’re investing in the youth 
of Gainesville, including those in low socio-economic brackets,” she 
said.THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Attentio/n.end Alligator 
Advertiser/s.end!
CLASSIFIED 373-FIND
DISPLAY 376-4482The Alligator will not 
publish from Mon., June 
19th through Fri., June 23rd
The deadline for 
Tuesday, June 27th is 
Fri., June 16th by 4:00 p.m. 
for Display & Classiﬁed Advertising
LOCAL
Museum honoring Gatorade inventor set to open in spring
Courtesy to the Alligator
T op: Construction site of the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention on South Main St, which is 
set to open in spring of 2018. Construction of the $10 million building began in 2016.
Bottom: A rendering of the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention’s ﬁ  nished exterior. Plans 
for the museum, which is dedicated to one of the inventors of Gatorade, began more than 10 years ago in 2004. 
Eman Elshahawy / Alligator ContributorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Please tip your servers the correct amount
Recently, I started working as a serv-
er for a new company. I have never worked in the restaurant business be-fore. That is to say, I have no prior ex-perience serving, bussing, cooking or 
hosting. My only experience in the industry is the many times I’ve been a customer. 
Since I have started my job, I always tip 20 
percent out of courtesy. 
In the past, I may have tipped 20 percent 
because I felt the service was superb (back when the cultural norm was around 15 percent). Or I may have tipped 20 percent because I thought servers did not make much money because I had heard their minimum wage was around $4.   
As a new server, I must ask you this: Please tip serv-
ers the proper amount.
Twenty percent is the standard amount, and it is not 
that much. For quick perspective, if you go to a restau-rant and pay $20 for yourself, 20 percent of that is $4. You would then be spending $24 for that entire experi-ence. For everything that a server must do for that $4, I think it is appropriate. 
Let’s assume this $24 experience was a meal at 
lunch. Let’s also assume at this lunch, your server was extremely busy. While he or she was taking your order, he or she was also running around making salads, bread baskets and desserts, pre-bussing their own tables, get-ting drinks and refills, delivering food and taking other tables’ orders. Usually, I serve three tables at a time. During the entire shift, I am sweating to ensure you have a great experience, all to get those $4. 
It is hard to explain just how important service can 
be. 
Just the other day, a group of 16 people came into my 
restaurant and were immediately upset. We told them they had to wait 45 minutes to clear space for their par-ty, but they were seated within 20 minutes. Within that 20 minutes, they had taken the names of both the managers on duty, both hosts, the servers and mine. However, by the time they were out, the party had told us that our service saved their experience. They left the restaurant happy. We were given a 20-percent tip to share and gratification that we could help someone out.
In one hour, I technically made around 
$25 ($20 for a split tip and $5 from wage). At 
minimum wage in retail, that would take someone three hours, but the level of work is not the same.
Basically, we don’t make that much money.On that same day, I had a six-person party that spent 
exactly $190. For near perfect service, I was tipped $5. For perspective on percentages, 20 percent would have been $38. I was tipped less than 3 percent.
But hey, that’s still $5 that I got to bring home, 
right? Well, that’s not necessarily true. In the restaurant where I work, we share tips. Two percent of my total sales go to the bussers of the restaurant (they share that total from all servers), and 1 percent of my total sales go to the bartenders. 
The party that spent $190 paid me in two $100 dol-
lar bills. I gave them back $10 in change, and received only $5 as tip in return. At the end of the night, I give the restaurant all the money I collect from the sales of the food. I did not keep that $190. That, plus the shared tips, is what I give back to the restaurant at night.
Essentially, I lost money because of that table. Three 
percent of that $190 is $5.70. I should not lose money for near perfect service.
I beg you, dear reader, please pay your servers the 
proper amount. They deserve it.
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His 
column appears on Thursdays.What should the 
US do about 
North Korea?
On Tuesday, news outlets disclosed that American college 
student, Otto Warmbier, had finally been released after more than 17 months in detention in North Korea. Ac
-
cording to Warmbier’s parents, he is currently in a coma after he contracted botulism, a paralyzing nerve toxin, 
and is still in “bad shape.”
Warmbier is said to have stolen a banner containing a political 
slogan that was hanging from the walls of his Pyongyang hotel. He was charged in March 2016 with 15 years of hard labor for committing “hostile acts” against the regime. 
Warmbier’s sentencing did not do much to improve the al
-
ready strained relations between the U.S. and North Korea, and news of his condition has Americans further questioning the cred
-
ibility of Warmbier’s charge and the communist nation itself.
In a story published by CNN, Warmbier’s parents are said 
to have stated they were “encouraged by US President Donald 
Trump’s willingness to improve relations with North Korea.” 
Their hope begs the question, are better relations with North Ko -
rea really what America needs?
North Korea is known to be one of the most brutal and closed-
off nations in the world. We have little information about the 
country, and much of what we do know is most likely communist 
propaganda. We know little about the truth behind its political system, and most of the interactions the U.S. has had with the country have been accompanied with mass skepticism.
Warmbier’s return was no exception. His release suspiciously 
coincided with former Chicago Bulls basketball player Dennis 
Rodman’s arrival in North Korea. This continues an eerie pattern 
we have seen with captives in North Korea throughout history.
According to The Washington Post, previous detainees of the 
communist nation have been released after visits from high-profile Americans, such as former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clin
-
ton. Although it has not yet been confirmed that Rodman’s arrival in North Korea is related to Warmbier’s release, people are specu
-
lating he may be traveling in order to help free Warmbier and the three other Americans currently being detained in the country.
We believe any relationship the U.S. could have with North 
Korea in the future will not be an honorable one.
Americans still have too many questions and fears to fully trust 
any interactions we could have with North Korea. We have heard stories for years of North Korean leaders brainwashing their citi
-
zens and forcing detainees to make false and incriminating state -
ments. Now we question whether we are trading in high-profile Americans to retrieve imprisoned Americans.
Every statement released from North Korea is taken in with 
reasonable disbelief and mistrust. We have been told that political leaders of the regime often produce false statements and portray a false existence to the Western world so we do not fear the reality of life behind its borders.
The fact of the matter is, no amount of effort will improve our 
relations with North Korea. We are the enemy to North Korea and 
them to us. We are a free, Western nation trying to fix a commu-nist nation that sees no error in its ways. North Korea is infuriated by our very existence. There is no amount of compromise that will 
improve our relations or secure our safety against the Eastern na-
tion. We will not be happy until they accept Western ideals, and they won’t be happy until we abandon them. By attempting to find a middle ground, we only further aggravate them.
We believe it is best in the case of North Korea to let sleeping 
dogs lay.James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
#3
Best universities 
for technology 
transfer /five.numr#6
Top colleges 
doing the most 
for low-income 
students /six.numr
#6
Production 
of doctoral 
degrees /seven.numr/one.numrLondon-based Times Higher Education  (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf)   /two.numrCenter 
for World University Rankings (2017)   /three.numrForbes  (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf)   
/four.numrAssociation of University Technology Managers    /five.numrMilken 
Institute  (2017)   /six.numrNew York Times (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf5)   /seven.numrSurvey of 
Earned Doctorates  list of all U.S. universities (/two.tf /zero.tf/one.tf5)
 Thanks 
      Gators,
Your hard work. Your dedication. 
You’re what makes the Gator Nation great.
And we’re reaching higher. With your help, we’re  
heading for the top 10. 
www.ufl.edu8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
By Emily Dubec-Hunter
Alligator Contributing Writer
Abby Almond was driving to the 
Gainesville Regional Airport at 5 
p.m. May 18 when she received the phone call.
Eight litters of kittens had been 
brought to the Alachua County Hu-mane Society, and at three weeks old, they were too young to stay in the shelter overnight. The shelter 
needed her to foster one of the lit-
ters.
The 23-year-old Gainesville ﬂ  ight 
instructor picked up a litter of three kittens that were found on the side of the road. With an hour until her next ﬂ  ight lesson, she gave them a quick bath in the sink, left them in the bathtub and rushed back to the airport.
Almond said last-minute calls 
like this are common during kitten season, which is between April and October, when kittens are most like-ly to be born.  
Since April 1, the ACHS has re-
ceived more than 75 litters of kittens, and with kitten season in full swing, so is the shelter’s foster program, said Grace Olivier, the foster and 
adoption coordinator at the shelter.She said the program plays a 
large role in keeping the ACHS a no-
kill shelter, since some shelters will euthanize kittens if they can’t care for them overnight.
“We’re actually ahead of a lot of 
other counties,” Olivier said. “We 
save all that we can.”
The ACHS has about 300 ani-
mals, but the shelter can only sup-
port 150. The rest stay with about 380 foster families, and of the 163 animals in foster care, 149 of them are kittens.
Finding caretakers for bottle ba-
bies, or kittens younger than three or 
four weeks old, is difﬁ  cult because 
they need to be bottle-fed every two to three hours until they are weaned.
“Believe me, I’m scared of boxes 
now,” Olivier said. “If we get a box left at our front door half the time there’s kittens in it.”
Olivier said the ACHS receives 
animals from Taylor County, Levy 
County and Lake City. She said she 
will even drive to pick up litters, or if the person who found them decides to foster, she will deliver the neces-sary supplies to care for them.
As part of the program, the ACHS 
provides every foster parent with supplies like kitten milk replacer, bottles and wet food, Olivier said.
“We’ve been pretty lucky,” Ol-
ivier said. “We pretty much run on donations for everything.”
Olivier said foster parents will 
keep kittens until they are about eight weeks old and can be spayed 
or neutered and deemed adoptable.
Although kittens can require a lot 
of care, Olivier said it isn’t difﬁ  cult to 
learn, and the shelter will help foster parents become informed.
Almond said she prefers kittens 
to other animals because she ﬁ  nds them easy to care for. Aside from feeding them, she said she cleans 
their litter box and brings them to 
the shelter every few weeks for vet-erinary checkups.
Olivier said fostering is a good 
option if you’re on the fence about adoption, because you won’t have the full-on commitment.
“I just need my kitten ﬁ  x some-
times, and if I foster enough, I don’t 
want one,” Almond said. “It’s like an 
endless revolving door of kittens.”
The ACHS encourages people to 
sign up to foster animals by ﬁ  lling out an application on their website and joining the Alachua County Humane Society Fosters Facebook page.Humane society seeking foster 
families during ‘kitten season’
Courtesy to the Alligator
Grace Olivier, the foster and adoption coordinator at the Alachua 
County Humane Society, holds three of seven kittens from the “F” litter at a checkup in May. The kittens were three days old when Olivier drove to pick them up in Hawthorne, Florida. All seven of them have been adopted.
THE MUSIC VENUE CLOSED 
MAY 2016, AND DEMOLITION 
BEGAN LAST WEEK.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Mika Sheerin remembers feeling starstruck 
her ﬁ  rst time at The Jam.
It was a Friday night two years ago, some-
time in February, she said. The student-run 
record label Swamp Records, which she is 
now president of, held its annual festival at the 
once-iconic music venue. 
It was where she made her ﬁ  rst impression 
of the label. It was where she ﬁ  rst forged a real 
bond with the local music scene in Gainesville. 
“It holds a special place in my heart,” the 
21-year-old UF advertising senior said. “After 
that one night I thought, ‘Why can’t this be every Friday night?’”
Now, tattered walls, debris and bulldozing 
equipment litter the space where Sheerin made memories. 
“It’s a sad day,” she said.For the past week, the mini strip mall where 
The Jam and other storefronts once stood be-
tween Midtown and downtown Gainesville, 
located at 817 W. University Ave., has been gradually demolished, said Eddy Arenas, a for-mer The Jam co-founder and co-owner.
“It’s disheartening because it feels like 
they’re getting rid of the old part of Gainesville,” Arenas said.The construction project on the block is 
known as Inception, said City of Gainesville spokesperson Chip Skinner. It is being devel-oped by local construction ﬁ  rm EDA Inc. and was approved by the City Plan Board late last 
year. 
Arenas said the development is part of UF’s 
Innovation Hub expansion project. He said when he and his friend, and then bandmate, 
Blake Briand started The Jam in September 2012, they did it for the music.
Arenas said what started off as a weekly 
Wednesday open jam session where his sister 
ran her old businesses evolved into the spot 
where Arenas and Briand would host some of the best shows and parties he can remember. 
Despite the disappointment, Arenas said 
he’s optimistic. Within the span of about a 
year, he said three great venues have opened 
up: Depot Park, Pop-A-Top cafe and Heart-wood Soundstage.
“The Jam opened up the way for these oth-
er venues to come through,” he said, “much 
like other venues paved the way for The Jam.”
Sheerin said there’s a special quality to The 
Jam that can’t be replicated, which Gainesville is now missing. She said the other venues in 
town are amazing in their own right, but it’ll 
take time for them to capture the same “hom-
ey” feel. She said The Jam was laid back, wel-
coming and genuine.
“The great thing about The Jam was that 
it was the place to try new things, it was a re-
ally good place for people just starting out,” 
she said. THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
About a week ago, demolition began at the block where The Jam and other store-fronts once stood between Midtown and downtown Gainesville, said Eddy Arenas, the former The Jam co-founder and co-owner. “It’s disheartening because it feels like they’re getting rid of the old part of Gainesville, ” he said.
Owners, UF students say last goodbyes to The JamTHURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
DC’s new ‘Wonder Woman’
Why you should see the newest superhero, pg. 12New Alachua County marketplace co-op
Where businesses and artists can show their 
products, pg. 13By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
Home to two universities, a vibrant down-
town area, the Florida High School Ath-
letic Association and several ethnic hubs, 
Gainesville is often overlooked on a national scale as an epicenter for music. Tom Petty 
and the Heartbreakers and Bernie Leadon of 
the Eagles are among the city’s most famous progeny, but in 2017, thanks in part to com-
panies like Lucid Nightlife, electronic dance 
music is putting Gainesville on the map. 
At 10 p.m. Saturday, Lucid Nightlife will 
host six EDM artists at Simons nightclub: headliner Part Native and support acts Side Trakd, FLTHYVBZ, Illegal Maneuver, Tyler 
Anthony and a surprise special guest. 
The event comes as part of Lucid Night-
life’s initiative to promote diverse up-and-coming acts from the Gainesville area and 
around the country, founder Matt Collins said.  
Collins started Lucid Nightlife in 2014, 
around the same time he began to pursue his civil engineering degree at UF. In the past nine months, Collins said, the business has taken off. Now, the company has 45 employ-
ees, most part-time and event-speciﬁ  c. Ten to 
15 of those employees make up Collins’ core group. 
“We have had the opportunity to be the 
team leader and the head ambassador for most festivals in Florida, including Sunset 
Music Festival, Life in Color, Okeechobee 
Music & Arts Festival and III Points in Mi-ami,” Collins said. “We act as the promotion-
al intermediaries for the Gainesville area and 
try to get our fans aware of the festivals going on in and around Florida.”
Though Saturday’s event is at Simons, fu-
ture events will rotate between the three to ﬁ  ve venues Lucid Nightlife works with, de-
pending on the kinds of acts Collins and his 
team bring together that month. This month, the artists have strong roots in Gainesville. 
“We don’t work directly for any venue, 
we do our own shows from the ground up,” Collins said. “I’ll contact and book the artist, get them down here, sell the tickets and then manage everything the night of the event.”
The six acts listed on the event’s Facebook 
page have dreams of performing among the ranks of chart-topping DJs and producers, but 
Tripp Churchill and David Hall of headliner 
Part Native are already on their way to seeing those dreams become a reality.
“We think it’s pretty cool to see huge art-
ists like The Chainsmokers, Diplo, Afrojack and other artists playing our music out at 
their shows,” Churchill said. “It’s also awe-
some to have the opportunity to play shows around the country.”
Determination is a common theme among 
the attitudes of the artists bringing their work to Simons on Saturday. All are grateful for Lu-
cid Nightlife and are conﬁ  dent their origins in 
Gainesville are strong jumping off points. 
For Part Native, the showcase will some-
day bring about an element of nostalgia. Mov-ing forward, it might be rare for them to play in Gainesville as they grow, so the pair looks 
forward to putting on a great show for their 
hometown, Churchill said.
For FLTHYVBZ members Jack Forney and 
Justin Barding, opportunities like the one on Saturday are important for their careers. 
“In this industry, you can blow up over-
night … As far as this weekend goes, we are trying to build our local support,” Forney said. “Gainesville is where we are based. We 
are Gainesville-only dubstep artists, and we 
want to establish that brand with the local bass fans. Part Native is one of the biggest 
artists to come out of Gainesville, and they 
did it with a lot of local support. We are fol-lowing in their footsteps.” 
Tickets at the door are $7, while $5 presale 
tickets are available for purchase on event-brite.com. For partygoers 21 and over, free 
shots will be served every hour on the hour, 
and free pizza will be available for all. Keep up with all Lucid Nightlife events at www.
facebook.com/LucidNightlife.Gainesville. THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Photo courtesy to the Alligator.
Part Native, composed of Gainesville-based production duo Tripp Churchill and David Hall, are headlining Saturday’s show. 
Lucid Nightlife to hold up-and-coming artist showcaseTHURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
With almost 100 million Twitter followers and mil-
lions of records sold, Katy Perry’s new album “Wit-
ness” was deﬁ  nitely shaping up to be a hit. Her single, “Chained to the Rhythm,” was being blasted on radio stations throughout the country as an anthem for indi-
viduality and independence.
Perry has returned to music, but listeners aren’t im-
pressed.
“Witness” was scheduled to release worldwide June 
9 at midnight when, after a boycott from all streaming 
platforms, Taylor Swift’s team suddenly announced that her full musical catalog would also be available June 9 at midnight.
Although they claimed the return was to celebrate 
her album “1989” hitting 10 million sales worldwide and the singer selling 100 million singles in the U.S., we all knew it was more than that.
However, Swift’s abrupt return to streaming services 
was not the only thing that caused Perry’s album to ﬂ  op. Even though Perry is known for breaking barriers in the music world with her daring song subjects, avant-garde outﬁ  ts and vibrant personality, “Witness” is just a mess.
We’ve seen a lot of failed attempts at reinventing  
one’s musical persona in 2017, and Perry has added 
herself to this list.
The best way to describe this album’s overall sound 
is a fork-in-the-garbage-disposal techno-pop. Perry is 
known for light, danceable pop tracks like “I Kissed a Girl” that resonated with listeners. This new artistic mis-adventure sounds like a cry for help.
The single “Swish Swish,” which is rumored to be 
about the long-standing rivalry between Swift and Per-ry, is chaotic — both lyrically and instrumentally. De-
spite the fact that everyone loves a good diss track, it 
seems like Swift has won this round.
Lyrics like “Red lipstick but still so raw, yeah / Mari-
lyn Monroe in a monster truck,” make no sense and are basically pointless to the dilapidated moral of the song “Hey Hey Hey.”
While listeners were hoping for upbeat jams like 
“Firework” and “Roar,” they were met with sloppy tech-no-pop. Although I embrace Perry’s message — break-
ing free from the chaos of the establishment to empower 
yourself and return to the root of your individuality — the album just falls ﬂ  at.Perry’s album gets overshadowed 
by Swift’s return to streaming 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The cover art for Katy Perry’s newest album, “Witness, ” 
which premiered to mixed reviews.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Contributing Writer
The highly anticipated block-
buster “Wonder Woman” pre-
miered June 2 starring 32-year-old Israeli actress, martial artist and model Gal Gadot. 
“Wonder Woman” was the 
ﬁ  rst of the superhero genre to be ﬁ  lmed by a female director —  Patty Jenkins — and she did not disappoint. The ﬁ  lm has brought in upward of $453.7 million at the box ofﬁ  ce so far and scored a 93 percent on Rotten Tomatoes. 
The ﬁ  lm begins with a young 
Diana Prince, played by Gadot, growing up on a mystical island solely populated by female war-riors called the Amazons. De-spite her mother’s wishes, Diana is trained by her aunt, the gener-
al of the Amazons, and becomes 
the most powerful ﬁ  ghter on the island. 
After British spy Steve Trevor, 
played by Chris Pine, crashes his plane into the island and tells the Amazons about the war threat-ening millions of lives, he and Diana leave the island to try to 
restore peace to humanity.
Despite her superhuman 
strength, seemingly blind faith 
in humanity and abnormal up-bringing, Diana is actually an extremely believable character. 
This is largely because of the 
focus put on her life among the Amazons. Here, we see strong women talking, working and training with the complete ab-
sence of any male inﬂ  uence. 
This is a viewpoint often missing in ﬁ  lm and helps audiences of all types relate to Diana as a com-plex human being, rather than solely as a woman ﬁ  lling a role. 
The quality of the acting and 
storyline in “Wonder Woman” prove that the ﬁ  lm is more than 
just a series of battle sequences. 
As Diana enters the world of men, the audience laughs, cries and occasionally cringes as she grapples with a world where truth is elusive, morality is am-biguous, love is complicated and women cannot walk the streets of London in armor carrying a sword. The romance between Diana and Steve is refreshingly moving without dominating the plot. She is allowed to be sexual 
without being sexualized.
All in all, “Wonder Woman” 
is a tremendous success, uplift-
ing women without comparing 
them to men. Diana embodies traits that men and women alike 
strive for. She is brave, inde-
pendent, kind, driven, compas-sionate and selﬂ  ess. Diana is the Wonder Woman that we all need.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
A review of DC’s ‘Wonder Woman’
MOVIES
Photo via IMDb. 
“Wonder Woman” 
premiered on June 2 to rave reviews all around.
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
When Virginia Lynn-Brinson lost her medi-
cal transcription business in 2012, she felt 
helpless. 
She thought she didn’t know how to do 
anything else until a mentor told her to ﬁ  nd a need in the community and ﬁ  ll it. Then, she had a moment of clarity. 
She started Virginia Lynn Enterprises, an 
event company that seeks to connect small businesses to the community. Her latest ven-ture is a small business marketplace.
The Good Life Market Place, located at 
14874 Main St. in Alachua, offers local busi-ness owners and artists a place to showcase their products. 
The marketplace is open Monday through 
Thursday from noon to 7 p.m., Friday from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. and Saturday from noon to 7 p.m. Lynn-Brinson and co-founder Sondra Thirston came up with the idea when they realized that local artists and business owners 
needed a permanent space to showcase their 
products. 
The name borrows from “The Good Life 
Community,” a nickname given to Alachua. 
They thought it was only ﬁ  tting that their shop 
be named after the city where it was born. 
“We thought that would be perfect for the 
store because this is the good life community, and we are a marketplace for small business; 
we just put those two together,” Lynn-Brinson 
said. 
Friday at the marketplace features a special 
event called Sip, Shop and Socialize. Lynn-
Brinson said it’s a time of light refreshments 
for people to check out the store and network. 
Because she has children, all of the events 
that Lynn-Brinson puts on are family friendly. 
At the last Friday event, she said a three-year-
old boy stepped behind a vendor’s table and attempted to sell some of her merchandise. 
“He had a good time in here, and he was 
going to make a really big sale if the person fell for it,” she said. 
To keep the lights on and run the market-
place, Lynn-Brinson and Thirston charge the vendors a monthly fee for their booth and col-lect a 30-percent commission. In exchange, the vendors receive free advertising through the 
owners’ radio show and Facebook Live events and gain exposure through in-store events.
When a potential customer comes to the 
market, they might not get to meet the particu-
lar vendor whose items they’d like to buy. In-
stead, Lynn-Brinson or Thirston assist in sales 
when a vendor is out of the store.
The items in the marketplace include or-
ganic skincare products, artwork, clothes, 
plant holders and some direct sales items like Scentsy. Most of the 12 vendors hail from 
across North Central Florida, coming from Gainesville, Bronson and Alachua. Lynn-Brin-son said the store is still accepting vendors.
“This marketplace is like a co-op,” she said. 
“Each one of us are contributing to helping to get our names out, but also helping us to be able to take a vacation or put our kids in dance 
class. All of us have a ‘why.’”One small business owner from Gainesville 
who’s participating in the marketplace is Sim-one Eddinger. Eddinger, 22, has been running 
her small business, Simone’s Natural Notions, for about a year. She makes handmade soaps, candles and bath bombs. 
Eddinger discovered making soap, perfect-
ing do-it-yourself recipes and about how the science behind the suds was equally important through reading books. She uses different on-line sources to learn more about the chemistry 
that makes her product perfect. 
“It was a little confusing, at ﬁ  rst, starting 
out with the soap, but there’s a lot of research 
going into it and a lot of helpful resources,” she said. 
When she went into the soap business, she 
wanted to stand apart from the local people who came before her. To do this, she crafted her own recipes, making everything from 
scratch and perfecting how her products look. 
Decorating the soap is one area she still needs to improve on she says, but she thinks her booth’s originality is one way she stands apart. 
“I kind of make my whole setup look like a 
tea party,” she said. 
Before getting an associate’s degree in art 
studio from Santa Fe College, Eddinger wanted to be a veterinarian. Today, she’s ﬁ  nishing up 
a degree in business entrepreneurship. Her 
goals have changed, but her love of animals still shines through. Currently, she’s working on a handmade soap for dogs.
Eddinger wants to offer affordable, special-
ty items. She prefers face-to-face sales for the small moments when she can talk to people and explain her in-depth process. One of her favorite soaps is called “Milk ‘n’ Coffee” on 
her Etsy shop. She uses goat’s milk and coffee 
grounds, among other ingredients.  
Putting in long hours is what’s needed to 
get a business off the ground. With the market-place, small business owners can rely on each other to help run their businesses even when they’re not around. 
Lynn-Brinson said that she thinks it takes 
a village to run a business much like it takes a 
village to raise a child. The marketplace is her 
new infant, needing constant attention, and she puts in long hours despite being a mother of six.  THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
HIPPODROME THEATRE
25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GVILLE
352.375.4477 | THEHIPP.ORG
Foreve Plaid
 Leave your worries behind and come experience
an incredible evening of music, dancing and laughter 
with the Plaids! Live on stage with 8 shows a week!
Ask about our student disounts!
Photo courtesy to the Alligator. 
From left: Virginia Lynn-Brinson and Sondra Thirston stand in front of The 
Good Life Market Place before it was ﬁ  lled with local businesses’ products and open to the public. 
Marketplace co-op opens in Alachua for small businesses
•   •   •
•   •   •BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
3BR/2.5BA new upscale condo in Haile 
Plantation Market Square. Modern finishes throughout: custom cabinetry, granite coun-tertops, stainless steel appliances, wood floors in open living area, tile bathrooms. On bus route, walking distance to Publix, restaurants, shopping, tennis courts, and more. Two units available. Each unit is ap-prox. 1450 sq/ft. Private balcony avail with one unit. $1875/month for each unit. Avail July, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.      6-27-17-5-2
3BR/3BA Beautiful Home with Vaulted 
Ceilings, Laminate Wood Floors. Located 
Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hospital, 
and VA Medical Centers. Screen Porch, 2 
Car Garage, Fenced Yard, Energy Efficient. 
W/D, Lawn Main, and Pest Control all 
Included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus 
Route. Avail Aug. $1875/month. Contact 
tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.    
6-27-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
One bedroom of four bedroom condo for 
rent in Countryside @ UF Condos. $425 per room two available 352-870-2792 Text or Call     6-29-17-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTHURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
ACROSS
1 Port initials
4 Fallon’s
predecessor
8 Negative quality
13 Late July arrival14 No longer hung
up on
15 Composed
16 Going rate?
18 Younger
daughter of Hiand Lois, incomics
19 Admission of
defeat
20 Petal pusher?22 Baseball’s Wills
and TV’s Povich
24 __ zone:
shallowest
oceanic region
that sunlightdoesn’t reach
27 Co. once led by
Baryshnikov
28 Sap sucker
31 Green prefix
32 Suffix with Bieber34 Like aged
cheddar
36 With some
unscrambling,
the contents of
each set ofcircles
40 Invoice word
41 Blow one’s fuse42 Once-sacred
snake
43 Straight sides of
a pizza slice, e.g.
45 Relaxation
destination
48 Low-down
prank?
51 __ torpedo: “Star
Trek” weapon
54 Symbol of
complementaryprinciples
57 Watching intently
58 Bakery-café
chain
60 Man of steel?
62 “Wild” author
Strayed
63 Actor Baldwin
64 Tillis of country65 “Sonatine
Bureaucratique”composer
66 Soothing
succulent
67 Pitches during
breaksDOWN
1 Word’s last syllable
2 Aquanaut’s base3 Block during
rebounding, inbasketball
4 Up in the air
5 Actress Longoria
6 Soft toy brand7 Russian city
where Turgenev
was born
8 Positive quality
9 “Fighting” Indiana
team
10 When some fans
have to wait till
11 Solitary prefix12 “Told you!”15 Fine fiddle17 Med. nation21 Sapporo sash
23 Reasonable
25 Zoning unit
26 Cut
29 Shot30 Word repeated
twice in a RogerEbert title aboutbad movies
32 Injured pro’s test,
perhaps
33 Toward the stern34 “What’s doin’?”
35 Haberdasher’s
item36 Latin American
capital
37 Like some late-
game hockey
goals
38 Hindu title39 Wisecrack
40 Fan sound
43 __ blue44 Words with clip
or crossroads
45 Mark of shame
46 Paid (up)47 Cloud dwellers?
49 Guy in the kitchen
50 Deli order
52 For this reason53 “Listen up,” to
Luis
55 Indiana-based
sports org.
56 Chutzpah58 Best Buy buys
59 “That’s it!”
61 Flying Cloud, for
one
By Brian Thomas©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/15/1706/15/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 15, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
ACROSS
1 Wall St. debuts
5 Land formerly
ruled by a shah
9 Political Ron or
Rand
13 Van starter?14 Stuffed shells16 Data, for instance
17 “Big __” Delaney:
“Sons of
Anarchy”character
18 “Tsk tsk”20 Hawaiian priests
22 “ ... bug in __”
23 Skating jump24 Petrol pumper25 Went for the lure28 Decide30 Starbucks
amenity
32 As an example34 “Street Dreams”
rapper
35 Hosiery hue
37 Get
38 Stretchy
synthetic
40 Inc. relative41 Ravi Shankar’s
instrument
42 How some tuna
is packed
43 Swiss chocolatier
since 1845
45 Mama bear, in
Tabasco
46 Standard
48 More than a few49 Bishops and
knights
50 Animal common
in rebus puzzles
51 Permission slip53 “Too bad”55 Pac-12 team56 King of fiction59 Deep-fried
carnival
confection
63 Dad, to Dumas
64 Morales of “The
Brink”
65 Corn Belt towers66 Toy brand with a
Ninjago line
67 It’s outstanding68 Small pie
69 Thames school
DOWN
1 “No harm done”2 Baba ghanouj
bread3 *“Regarding 
the subject at
hand ... ”
4 Iowa’s __ City5 “So not true!”
6 Cheers from tiers
7 Obamacare,
briefly
8 Baseball analyst
Garciaparra
9 “And the Putter
Went ... __”: golfhistory book
10 “__ questions?”11 Blur in a tabloid
pic
12 Fox Business
anchor Dobbs
15 Letter flourish19 *Like leisure suits
and Nehru jackets
21 *Nike competitor24 *Major-league25 Bed cover ... or,
literally, what theend of eachanswer to astarred clue is
26 As a precaution
27 5-Across capital
28 How much
shopping is done
29 Webpage option
under an invoice
31 Top off, say33 Retailer that
abstained from
Black Friday in2015 andlaunched an#OptOutsidemovement instead
36 Flamboyant Dame39 Cup lip44 Crime lab
procedure
47 Sprawls on the
couch52 Implied54 Cobbler fruit55 Foot or furlong56 Hershey’s toffee
bar
57 Thus58 Flashy light59 Served dinner to60 Take advantage
of
61 Arrest62 Menu
catchphrase
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/14/1706/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, June 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
CASHIER NEEDEDExperienced, dependable, reliable. References needed. Backgound check & drug test required. Foodmax Foodstore, 404 S Main St, 32601. 352-338-1338   6-27-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      6-27-17-4-14
Need a Job? We're hiring! Stop by The 
Village Career Fair!
When: June 28th 9:00am - 2:00pm
Where: 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, 
FL 32606
Hiring for: RNs, LPNs, CNAs, Companions, 
Servers, Kitchen Porters, Cooks
6-27-17-3-14
Realm nightclub coming summer B
Hiring bar staff, security, promo peopleContact viawww.facebook.com/realmnightclub    6-29-17-3-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '17
Notetakers
Editors
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
6-29-17-3-14
Content Writer. P/T. The primary focus is on content for web pages, blogs & social posts. Great opportunity for journalism students. sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com or (352) 339-3156. $9.5/h     7-11-17-5-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline
for meeting real, fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 andmake a REAL connection.      6-15-1-19
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
AVIATIONWork with JetBlue, United, Delta and othersStart here with hands-on trainingfor FAA CertificationFinancial Aid if qualifiedAviation Institute of Maintenance888-242- 2649     6-15-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-15-1-16
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger &amp; Harder Immediately!Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently &amp; Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Brochure: 1-800- 354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com     6-15-1-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Pet-
rified Forest National Park?
2. MOVIES: Who starred in the mov-
ie version of the musical “Evita!”?
3. TRANSPORTATION: What 
major airport’s three-letter designa-
tion is ORD?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Hannibal 
Hamlin served as vice president to which U.S. president?
5. ANATOMY: What part of the 
human body is affected by Graves’ 
disease?
6. LITERATURE: A biography of 
which five-star general was titled “Old 
Soldiers Never Die”?
7. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
tablespoons are in a cup?
8. CARTOONS: What are the names 
of the “The Chipmunks” singing group?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
When is a sesquicentennial?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What type of 
spice can be Hungarian or Spanish?
Answers
1. Arizona2. Madonna3. O’Hare International Airport, Chi-
cago
4. Abraham Lincoln5. The thyroid gland6. Douglas MacArthur
7. 16
8. Theodore, Simon and Alvin9. 150-year anniversary10. Paprika
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 12, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
1.  Type of vertebra
1.  Noisily 5.  “The ____ Suspects”
2.  Funeral attendee6.  ____ Sea
3.  ____ medication 7.  Waxy stick
4.  DashBURALM
UOYLDLSLAUU
TROHN
UREMNOR
GRAELLYOCNARY
YEHNPHANSWERS: 1A-Lumbar  5A-Usual  6A-North  7A-Crayon
1D-Loudly  2D-Mourner  3D-Allergy  4D-Hyphen  B-Hardy Boys6-15-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TMS - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1400, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoytaol.com. @JUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: “The ____ ____” date back
to the late 1920s.
BONUS207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Mayweather and McGregor set a ﬁ  ght date
Unbeaten boxer Floyd Mayweather and UFC lightweight champion Conor 
McGregor will ﬁ  ght on Aug. 26 in Las Vegas. The two will compete in a 12-round boxing match contested at 154 pounds. Both men are expected to earn over $100 million for the event.Eight UF baseball players were 
selected in the MLB Draft this week, including right-hander Alex Faedo, who went 18th overall to the Detroit Tigers. Read the story, pg. 20
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsStaff Report
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which UF female 
athlete was the best of the 2016-17 season. Sports writers Andrew Huang, Morgan McMullen and Spencer 
Thompson join alligatorSports editors 
Dylan Dixon and Jake Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Dixon: Barnhill brought her 
best in 2017
If Kelly Barnhill wasn’t the most 
dominant female athlete Florida had to offer during the 2016-17 season, I might as well quit my job at the Alligator right now.
Words simply don’t do it justice 
for how amazing the sophomore pitcher from Marietta, Georgia, was this year with UF’s softball team.
For starters, Barnhill was 
unhittable in every sense of the phrase, mowing down batters with an NCAA-leading 0.51 ERA as well as 359 total strikeouts.
She also had a pair of scoreless 
inning streaks that spanned 51 and 45.2 frames each, an absolutely ridiculous stat line considering the 
fact she competed in the SEC.
And after a successful regular 
season for the Gators that saw them 
earn the No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament, Barnhill continued her strong play with an electric national postseason, sporting a 1.09 ERA over 45 innings pitched.
The 5-foot-7 right-hander led Florida all the way to Women’s College World Series ﬁ  nal where the team ultimately fell to Oklahoma in two-game series sweep.
While she might have failed to 
win the ultimate prize of a national championship, Barnhill still received numerous honors and accolades to commemorate her impressive 2017 campaign.
She was named both the USA 
Softball Collegiate Player of the Year and espnW Player of the Year in 
May and was also given the Honda 
Sports Award on Monday, which is granted to the best female athlete in each sport.
My fellow colleagues might try and convince you otherwise, but in my mind, there was no one more on her game this season than Barnhill. No one.
Dreilinger: Alex McMurtry 
stepped up in a big way
In its ﬁ  rst season without 
longtime standout Bridget Sloan, the Gators gymnastics team needed someone to ﬁ  ll her role.
Enter junior Alex McMurtry.The Midlothian, Virginia, native 
had a year to remember, helping Florida make it back to the NCAA Super Six and making her case for 
the most dominant female athlete at 
UF.
She has the resume to back up 
that claim as well.
McMurtry had four perfect 10s 
(two on uneven bars, one on vault and one on ﬂ  oor) and was the ﬁ  rst Gator to record a perfect 10 in three different events in a single season. 
She was also the only competitor in 
this year’s NCAA Championships to earn All-America ﬁ  rst-team honors in each event. 
She took home the SEC all-around 
title, the ﬁ  fth Gator in the last six years to do so. McMurtry was even the NCAA all-around champion after posting an NCAA semiﬁ  nal score of 
39.8125.
With the incredible season she 
had leading the Gators to a third 
place ﬁ  nish, she became the ﬁ  fth Gator in the last six years to earn the Honda Sports Award in gymnastics.
If those achievements aren’t 
enough to convince you, take a look at how she closed out her 2017 campaign.
When it came time for McMurtry 
to perform her last routine on bars, Oklahoma had already clinched the national title. Despite the celebration having already started, she gave it everything she had.
As she ﬁ  nished her routine, she 
looked to see what her score was.
It was another perfect 10.The most dominant female 
athlete this season had just capped off her year with another exhilarating performance.
Huang: Jefferson capped off 
career in ﬂ  awless fashion
Kyra Jefferson spent ﬁ  ve years 
at Florida leaving the competition in the dust.
Now, the ﬁ  fth-year senior is 
leaving behind a legacy in the form of four NCAA titles, six SEC titles and 20 appearances on UF's all-time top 10 lists.
And of course, an NCAA record in 
her signature event, the 200-meter.
In her ﬁ  nal 200-meter appearance 
she garnered her third NCAA title, breaking Dawn Sowell’s 28-year-old record by two-hundredths of a second at the NCAA Outdoor Championships in Eugene, Oregon.
The feat vaulted Jefferson into 
rare company. She is the fourth woman ever to run a time of 22.02 or better before turning 23 years old.
But that was just the exclamation 
point at the end of a stellar senior campaign.  At the SEC Outdoor Championships in May, Jefferson claimed her second SEC title in the 
 Alligator Awards: Who was Florida’s best female athlete of 2016-17?
 
There are a lot of cool traditions 
that come with winning the NBA Finals.
There’s the postgame 
champagne shower in the 
locker room, the championship parade through city streets and the ring ceremony to kick off the following year’s season.
Hell, some teams even get to have 
their faces plastered across boxes of Wheaties.
Who wouldn’t want that?Well, there is one more tradition 
I haven’t mentioned yet. One that the Golden State Warriors reportedly 
want no part of.
A trip to our nation’s capital. A 
good old visit with Donald Trump 
and his staff at the White House.
Now, before I go any further, I 
think it’s very important for me to note that I absolutely despise our 
current president. He’s an ignorant, 
egotistical, misogynistic, self-serving 
bigot, and it doesn’t take an avid 
follower of politics to come to such 
a conclusion.
But I’m going to put my feelings 
aside for this column because, regardless of everything that Trump stands for, the Warriors would be making a mistake if they skipped their trip to the White House.
In fact, I think they’d regret it 10 
years from now.
Receiving an invitation to 1600 
Pennsylvania Avenue is a very exclusive honor most athletes will never experience in their lifetime. It’s restricted to the select few who 
were actually good enough to win at 
the highest level in their respective 
sports.
And while the Warriors might not 
agree with Trump’s political views, meeting the POTUS isn’t the only thing to be gained from traveling to 
our nation’s capital.
Just ask someone who made the 
trip numerous times over the course 
of his career: former Los Angeles 
Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant.
“That visit is more than 
how you feel about the current administration,” Bryant said to Politico. “It’s about the guys next to you, about the ﬂ  ag, about the kids out there who look up to you and the United States.”
Several teams have already  Golden State Warriors making a mistake if they pass on White House visitAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill pitches during Florida's 5-0 win against Georgia on 
April 8, 2017, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
You’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
twitter: @dylanrdixon
The Associated Press
The Golden State Warriors celebrate winning the NBA Finals on Monday following their 129-120 win over the Cleveland Cavaliers.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 19
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1918   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
7750 W Newberry Rd
352.727.4619House Margaritas 
and Draft Beers 
2 for 1
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.BASEBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Once the rain subsided and Game 3 
of the NCAA Gainesville Super Regional 
was ready to resume, the Gators turned to an unlikely hero to keep Wake Forest’s red-hot offense at bay.
That player? Freshman reliever Tyler 
Dyson.
Entering the contest, Dyson had 
never thrown more than two innings in a game and had never struck out more than three batters. But on Monday night at McKethan Stadium, he shattered those amounts.
The Bradenton, Florida, native tossed 
a career-high ﬁ  ve scoreless innings and allowed two hits while striking out seven batters to help UF advance to its sixth College World Series appearance over the last eight years.
Dyson’s performance was so pivotal 
in the win that it prompted ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz to interrupt the postgame press conference so he could praise the 
freshman.
“I just wanted to say how big Tyler 
Dyson’s performance was for us, and we 
wouldn’t have won today without that,” Schwarz said. “I think it’s huge.”
Dyson’s unlikely performance serves 
as a microcosm for a much bigger story surrounding this Florida baseball team.
The Gators are starting to get hot at 
just the right time, speciﬁ  cally with their bats.
UF’s offense, which struggled for a 
good portion of the regular season, came alive in the Gainesville Super Regional against the Demon Deacons. Florida collected eight hits during Game 2 and 10 hits during Game 3, marking the third time this postseason it recorded 10 or more base knocks in a contest.
Some players also saw an offensive 
surge to open the NCAA Tournament, putting up 10 runs against Marist and six against Bethune-Cookman.
Only two players on Florida’s 
roster are hitting above .300 as whole: outﬁ  elders Ryan Larson and Nelson Maldonado.
But in his last ﬁ  ve games, second 
baseman Deacon Liput leads the team with a .368 batting average, going 7-for-19 with a home run and ﬁ  ve RBIs.
During that same span, third 
baseman Jonathan India found his stride 
as well, hitting .350 with seven hits and 
four runs.
And since the start of the SEC 
Tournament on May 24, inﬁ  elder Christian Hicks is batting .346 with seven runs scored.
Even Schwarz, who underperformed 
for most of this year, blasted two home runs against Wake Forest, one in Game 
2 and the other in Game 3.
“Our offense, we’ve been getting 
production from a lot of different 
people,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “I think that’s the important thing.”
Florida will now look ahead towards 
the College World Series with a matchup against TCU awaiting on Sunday at 7 p.m.
The Horned Frogs (46-16) haven’t 
lost a game in the NCAA Tournament this postseason, sweeping both its 
regional and super regional at home.
They’re no pushover in the batter’s 
box either.
TCU has a higher batting average 
(.271), more runs scored (426), more 
hits (567), more RBIs (383) and more home runs (55) than Florida, meaning pitching could be the difference between a win and a loss for the Gators.
Junior right-hander Alex Faedo is 
expected to get the starting nod from O’Sullivan, with Schwarz quick to express his conﬁ  dence in UF’s staff.
“Our starting pitching is so strong 
and the layout of the games I feel like work out in our favor,” Schwarz said. “So I feel really conﬁ  dent going into this thing.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
 
 Gators ﬁ  nding oﬀ  ensive groove ahead of College World Series
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Tyler Dyson pitches during Florida’s 1-0 win over LSU 
on March 24, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
2017 College World Series
Participants
Cal State Fullerton Titans (39-22)
Florida Gators (47-18)
Florida State Seminoles (45-21)
Louisville Cardinals (52-10)
LSU Tigers (48-17)
Oregon State Beavers (54-4)
TCU Horned Frogs (46-16)
Texas A&M Aggies (41-21)THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
200-meter.
Just like that, she swept the 
heavyweight SEC and the nation.
Her outdoor resume is far from 
limited to one event—she has won 
SEC titles in the 4x400 relay and 
100-meter as well as national titles in the 4x100 and 4x400 relays.
Her indoor accomplishments 
aren’t far behind.  She is an SEC champion in the 4x400 relay, and owns NCAA and SEC 200-meter titles.
Track and ﬁ  eld athletes have 
separate eligibility between indoor and outdoor meets. Jefferson had exhausted her indoor eligibility last year, meaning she could only participate in the second half of this season at outdoor competitions.
That’s why her performance in 
her ﬁ  nal season is so impressive: She rose to the occasion and then 
some at every opportunity, and it 
seems likely she would have done well indoors if she had the chance.
For anyone else, half a season 
wouldn’t be close to enough to make a case for best female athlete.
But when it comes to Kyra 
Jefferson, all it takes is two-hundredths of a second.
McMullen: Woolcock shined 
amongst the stars
Her last match in UF colors 
may have been a loss, but Belinda Woolcock had a season nearly unrivaled in Gator history.
The senior from Melbourne, 
Australia, was runner-up in the NCAA Singles Tournament, where she admittedly ran out of gas after a stretch of 11 consecutive days of play. In the championship tournament, Woolcock was named the 2017 NCAA Championship Most Outstanding Player.
Speaking of accolades, Woolcock 
was the Honda Sports Award winner for best female tennis player in the country. She is the fourth Gator tennis player to receive the honor, and her record and role on a championship team legitimizes the choice.
As part of the national 
championship effort, Woolcock avenged a regular season loss to Vanderbilt’s Astra Sharma, initiating a comeback effort to defeat the No. 2-ranked player 6-7, 6-2, 6-0 in the semiﬁ  nals. After that heart-stopping victory, Woolcock cruised to a 6-1, 6-3 win over Stanford’s Caroline Doyle to give Florida its second 
singles point of the ﬁ  nal. 
Woolcock played in the No. 1 
singles spot in almost every dual 
match this season, posting a record of 16-6 over that span. As a doubles partner with Josie Kuhlman, she went 24-3. 
On a team of superstars, it’s 
difﬁ  cult to shine. But Belinda 
Woolcock did just that and deserves 
to be considered the best UF female athlete of 2016-17.
 Thompson: Jordan made 
history in ﬁ  nal season
Abby Wambach is one of the 
most decorated female athletes in the world. Sitting directly behind 
Wambach in Florida soccer history 
is forward Savannah Jordan, and that’s why she deserves the title of best female athlete in the 2016-17 season. 
During her four years at UF, 
she helped lead the Gators to a combined 71-18-5 record, including a 2016 campaign that saw Florida lose in the NCAA quarterﬁ  nals. 
In 2016, Jordan started all 23 
games and led the team in goals, points and shots on goal. She also tied for second in assists with Mayra Pelayo.
However, it’s wasn’t just 
Jordan’s recent success that established her as a Gator great. She ranks second in program history in goals and points with 81 and 189, respectively. This is second only to two-time gold medal olympian Wambach, who scored 96 goals and earned 242 points in her time at UF.
Jordan was the ﬁ  rst player in 
Florida history to earn four National 
Soccer Coaches Association of 
America All-America honors. And she also joins Wambach as the only other Gator to earn four consecutive All-SEC ﬁ  rst-team honors. 
After Jordan graduated, she was 
drafted by the Portland Thorns, only to quickly sign with the Scottish champion football club 
Glasgow City. Jordan’s timeline 
with Portland is uncertain, but it is likely she will return to the U.S. in 2018.
 Who do you think was the best 
female athlete of the 2016-17 season? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.  
AWARDS,  from pg. 17Woolcock won the 2017 Honda Award for women's tennis
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan shoots during Florida's 5-2 win over Iowa State 
on Aug. 19, 2016, at James G. Pressly Stadium.
ventured to the White House since 
Trump took ofﬁ  ce six months ago. The New England Patriots went on April 19 to celebrate their Super Bowl LI comeback over the Atlanta Falcons, and the Clemson University football team arrived on Monday to commemorate its last-second victory 
over the Alabama Crimson Tide.
The Pittsburgh Penguins, who 
wrapped up the 2017 Stanley Cup 
Finals on Sunday, have made it very clear they intend to go as well, and the team’s owner and CEO are both staunch democrats.
And yes, players from both New 
England and Clemson did decide to 
skip the trip due to political differences 
with the commander in chief.
But for an entire team pass up on 
the opportunity? Do they really want to do that?
Guys like Stephen Curry, Klay 
Thompson, Draymond Green and 
Andre Iguodala got to go two years 
ago, but what about Kevin Durant, 
David West, Patrick McCaw and 
JaVale McGee?
None of them have been before. 
Neither have Zaza Pachulia, Matt Barnes, or Damian Jones.
While the Warriors appear headed 
for many more championships down 
the road, nothing is guaranteed. 
Injuries can derail a team’s future. 
Other franchises will restock and reload their rosters.
It’s deﬁ  nitely possible this 
particular group at Golden State will never get another opportunity to go to Washington again.
While I hate Trump just as much 
as they do, it’s still a freaking trip 
to the White House, a place full of 
history and amazing moments in our country’s past.
They should think twice before 
declining such an offer. That’s my two cents about it.COLUMN,  from pg. 17By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The three-day, 40-round, 1215-pick 
marathon that is the MLB Draft came to a 
close on Wednesday afternoon with a total 
of eight Gators selected by major league 
clubs.
Starting pitcher Alex Faedo was taken 
18th overall by the Detroit Tigers on 
Monday night, becoming the 19th Florida player chosen in the ﬁ  rst round in program 
history.
Shortstop Dalton Guthrie and catchers 
Mike Rivera and Mark Kolozsvary were 
next to hear their names come off the 
board on Tuesday, with Guthrie going to the Philadelphia Phillies at pick No. 173, Rivera going to the Cleveland Indians at pick No. 192 and Kolozsvary going to the 
Cincinnati Reds at pick No. 197.
Relief pitchers David Lee and Frank Rubio, second baseman Deacon Liput 
and catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz concluded the action on Wednesday, with Lee going to the Pittsburgh Pirates at pick 
No. 808, Rubio going to the San Francisco 
Giants at pick No. 876, Liput going to the Los Angeles Dodgers at pick No. 880 and Schwarz going to the Tampa Bay Rays at pick No. 1129.
Notable players who went undrafted 
this week are inﬁ  elder Christian Hicks, outﬁ  elder Ryan Larson and outﬁ  elder/relief pitcher Nick Horvath.
Starting pitchers Brady Singer and 
Jackson Kowar, relief pitcher Michael 
Byrne, outﬁ  elder Nelson Maldonado and 
third baseman Jonathan India are all expected to headline next season’s draft when they become eligible as juniors.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 2017
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
Grace King / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz follows through on his swing during Florida’s 6-1 win over Bethune-Cookman in the NCAA 
Regionals on June 5, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Frank Rubio pitches during Florida’s 2-0 win over Miami on Feb. 25, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL
 Gators see eight players selected in 2017 MLB Draft