By Romy Ellenbogen         
and Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writers
After his mere presence caused 
a four-hour protest at UF, a man 
wearing a swastika armband was 
attacked Thursday.
Michael Dewitz, who had the 
Nazi symbol tied onto his jacket’s 
sleeve with red yarn, left Turling-ton Plaza at about 1:30 p.m., after UF students and faculty protested him, some yelling expletives in 
his face.
Dewitz, 34, stood at the cor-
ner of Northwest 13th Street and 
Northwest Eighth Avenue when two white men jumped out of a 
red pickup truck and struck him 
and stole his jacket and swastika armband before driving away, said Gainesville Police spokesper-
son Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Tobias said GPD is searching 
for the truck and the men. Dewitz 
suffered minor injuries but was not taken to the hospital.
Dewitz had returned to UF two 
days after he was ﬁ  rst sighted on campus wearing the symbol, this We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 90 FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
Gators moving foward
UF’s men’s hoops team avoided a 
slippery slope against LSU, pg. 13
Puppies rescued from South Korea adopted
Bernard and Louie are going home, pg. 3
Gang-related violence on the rise in Gainesville
Police ofﬁ  cials discussed the trend during a meeting, pg. 5FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorJustin Bright / Alligator
Sid Dobrin, the chair of the UF Department of English, urges the crowd to take the moral high ground against Nazi demonstrator Michael Dewitz, despite his aggression. After Dewitz’s Nazi salute caused verbal backlash, Dobrin demanded for maturity but zero toleration.
Swastika-wearing man attacked after protest at UF
HE TOOK A SHOT BEFORE 
STUDYING AND THEN 
BOUGHT A SIX-PACK ON 
HIS WAY HOME.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF law student hit the bottle, 
hit the books and then hit a trail-
er Wednesday, Gainesville Police said.After a shot of rum and a night 
of studying at UF’s Levin College of Law, 25-year-old Ryan William Hernandez bought a six-pack of beer and crashed his car into a trailer on his way home, according to a police report.
“I’m not 100-percent sober,” the 
law student told police, according to the report.
UF spokesperson John Hines 
conﬁ  rmed that Hernandez is a UF 
law student.The accident, 
which occurred 
on West Newber-ry Road at about 11:20 p.m., caused about $4,000 in dam-age, police said. The trailer was 
being pulled by a 
Hummer, according to the report.
When they arrived on scene, 
Florida Highway Patrol troopers and GPD ofﬁ  cers noticed Hernan-
dez slurred his speech and had im-
paired reﬂ  exes, according to the re-port. Inside his car, police found a partially consumed six-pack of beer on his passenger-side ﬂ  oorboard.
Hernandez told police he didn’t 
see the trailer when he tried to turn onto Southwest 62nd Street, police said. While performing poorly on 
ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises, Hernandez 
admitted he was intoxicated.
Hernandez was unable to com-plete ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises, and police arrested him on a charge of driving under the inﬂ  uence with property damage.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where he was released Thursday on his own re-cognizance.
Hernandez could not be reached 
for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
After study session, UF student drunkenly crashes car
Hernandez
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
For 38 years, Susan Grifﬁ  n has 
made a living painting faces.
Her most reliable customers typi-cally request to be transformed into 
unicorns. But anything purple, pink 
and mythical will do.
This weekend and next, the 
64-year-old Houston, Texas, resi-dent will transform hundreds of fac-
es at the 31st annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire. 
More than 1,000 vendors, enter-
tainers and volunteers from across the country will be there, including 
Grifﬁ  n, who traveled from Texas to Gainesville in an RV. 
“This show has a wonderful fol-
lowing,” Grifﬁ  n said. “When we come here, it’s worth our time.”
Last year, over the course of ﬁ  ve 
days, about 60,000 people visited Hoggetowne at the Alachua County Fairgrounds. The number of attend-ees should be about the same this 
year, said Karen Baker, an assistant 
event coordinator. 
Visitors can watch medieval re-
enactments, purchase trinkets and At medieval fair, thousands traverse U.S. to travel back in timeSEE PROTEST,  PAGE 8
SEE FAIR,  PAGE 9Hoggetowne fair opens SaturdaySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 90
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  66° LOW  38°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
presents Fahim Anwar
Fahim Anwar will be perform-ing stand-up comedy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom tonight 
from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anwar is a 
comedian who just finished film-ing season five of “Guy Code” for MTV2, and his recent film and TV credits include “Neighbors,” “Kirstie,” “Rizzoli & Isles,” “New Girl,” “Chuck” and “Fun House.” You can see Anwar in Tina Fey’s war-comedy film, based on Kim 
Barker’s memoir, “Whiskey 
Tango Foxtrot,” which was re-leased in March 2016. Currently, Anwar is working on his own one-hour special and performs for sold-out comedy clubs across the country.
Global GatorNights 
GatorNights is taking you around the world tonight. Discover your own flavor of rhythm with dance lessons from UF’s Gator Salsa Club, or express yourself with a custom henna tattoo. Attend ori-gami tutorials, and make a paper lantern as a souvenir. Learn intro-ductory phrases in various world 
languages at the world language 
exchange in Orange and Brew from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Visit nine different countries while play-ing a game of around-the-world mini-golf. Fly on over to the Reitz Union Auditorium to catch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of the featured film for this week, 
“Moana.” GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the 
event.
Gay Movie Night: ‘Tab Hunter 
Confidential’
At 7:30 p.m. on the last Friday of every month, the Pride Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St., hosts Gay Movie Night, which the center 
offers for free. Today, the movie 
“Tab Hunter Confidential” will be shown. It is a documentary about the real Tab Hunter as he shares the whole story of a happy and healthy survivor of Hollywood’s roller coaster. A $2 donation is requested to help cover the cost of snacks. Visit 
the Facebook page at facebook.
com/135747915702.
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’ The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” from Friday to Sunday and from Feb. 
3 to Feb. 5 in Constans Theatre. 
This new play by Canadian play-wright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the story of Talbot and Michaud, two Quebec City seminarians from opposing so-cial classes with conflicting ideas about life, religion and art. Tickets for the production 
are $18 for the general public, 
$15 for seniors and UF faculty and staff and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative 
consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more in-formation or to request material, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ ufsa.ufl.edu.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
Correction: In an article published 
Jan. 26, the Alligator incorrectly stated a Gainesville Police officer received a Carnegie Hero Medal on Wednesday. He received a Carnegie Medal.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Our tax pros will prepare & ﬁle your 
federal 1040EZ for free. Enter our 
drawing to win a $25 Visa Gift Card! Valid at our ofﬁce only. Bring this ad.
BLOCK ADVISORS
5010 Newberry Rd. Ste. A
Gainesville 32608 · 352-372-7269
Valid for 2016 personal 
income tax return only. Type of federal return /f_iled is based on your personal tax situtation 
and IRS rules. Additional fees apply may apply. OBTP#B13696 Copyright 2017 HRB Tax Group, Inc.
FILEFREE.
IT’S THAT EZ.VALID 
02/01-02/27
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THEY ARE DESIGNING 12 NEW 
CONTROLLERS THIS SEMESTER.
By Bernadette Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of UF students is working to 
make gaming easier for one-handed play-
ers.
Taariq Imami, 22, along with a couple 
of friends, created three one-handed video game controllers in Fall. But this Spring, with the help of 10 others, they will design and manufacture 12 more.
As part of the Generational Relief in 
Prosthetics club, an organization that cre-ates prosthetics for children and teens with 
deﬁ  ciencies, Imami met an 8-year-old boy 
who asked for an Xbox controller he could hold in one hand after he delivered the boy’s prosthetic hand.“I didn’t think of it being a problem 
until I went home and tried it out,” said the UF computer science senior, who then began looking into one-handed controllers.
The group of students, with the help of 
a professor in the Department of Biomedi-cal Engineering, have access to any materi-als they need. 
Imami’s idea has received attention 
through a GoFundMe page, and he’s col-
lected all the money needed to reach his 
goal of $750, as of press time. 
Ben Rachman, 20, the president of 
Gator Gaming, said he understands why one-handed players struggle to enjoy video games, given the difﬁ  culty of using stan-dard controllers.
“This just points toward a trend of more 
personalized electronics,” the UF econom-
ics junior said. “This would just represent 
another positive step in that.” UF Students to develop 
one-handed controllers
SWEETBERRIES WILL NOW 
SERVE COFFEE AND PASTRIES 
FOR BREAKFAST.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A local ice cream shop wants to ﬁ  ll coffee 
cravings for customers near campus.
SweetBerries Eatery and Frozen Custard, 
located at 505 NW 13th Street, has extended 
its hours and now includes breakfast, said store co-owner Jane Osmond. 
The new menu includes coffee, scones 
and bagels. It will be served from 7:30 a.m. to 11 a.m.
“We felt like there was a need for some-
thing like this in the area we were in,” Os-mond, a UF alumna, said.After noticing customers often came to 
the restaurant after closing, the decision was made to stay open an extra hour, until mid-night, on Fridays and Saturdays.
Amy Bumbaco, 27, said she thinks the 
extended hours will attract more customers hungry.
“They are close to campus, so I think it 
would be popular for breakfast,” she said.
Osmond said the restaurant also has plans 
to build a deck over the in the next month.
The location will celebrate its fourth an-
niversary in February, she said. 
Osmond hopes the deck will be complete 
in time to celebrate.
“I think it will change the nature of the 
restaurant a little at night,” she said. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgSweetBerries extends 
hours, expands menuCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Richard Drummond plays with his newly adopted puppy at the 
Alachua County Humane Society on Thursday. The dog the Drummonds adopted was saved from a meat farm in South Korea.
BERNARD WAS PICKED UP THURSDAY, AND LOUIE WILL BE PICKED UP SUNDAY.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Bernard and Louie have found their forever homes. 
After about two weeks in Gainesville and 31 appli-
cations for their adoptions, the 3- to 4-month-old Jindo-
mix puppies, brought to Gainesville from a South Korean meat farm last week, will be going home to families. 
Bernard met his new owners Thursday, and Louie 
will be picked up by his new family Sunday, said Margot 
DeConna, the director of development for the Alachua 
County Humane Society. 
For Gainesville residents Richard and Carol Drum-
mond, they weren’t expecting to get a call saying they’d 
get to take home Bernard. The Gainesville couple owned 
a Jindo-mix dog before, Murphy, who was euthanized in November because of his old age and sickness, Mrs. 
Drummond said. 
“He was my soulmate,” she said. “I mean, my hus-
band is, too, but he was just the best dog.”
Mrs. Drummond, 69, said she was devastated after 
Murphy died but wanted another Jindo pup because their house seemed too empty. But she didn’t know when to get another pup until she saw an article written about the puppies online.
She couldn’t help but fall in love with them and their 
story.
Mid-afternoon Thursday, she and her husband 
brought Bernard home. Running around as his tongue 
ﬂ  opped to the side, Bernard looked awfully cute, she 
said.
“We got Bernard, but I’m going to name him Louie,” 
she said. “To me, he looks like a Louie.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgRescued puppies find a home4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Olivia Gabel asked rapper Hoodie Allen 
to perform her favorite song at UF, she didn’t ex-
pect him to respond.
But when she opened her email inbox later that 
day, she had a surprise waiting for her. 
He wrote back.The 18-year-old’s internet plea has galvanized a 
small group of about 30 fans hoping to lure Allen to Gainesville for a concert. 
They’ve lobbied Student Government Produc-
tions and now have their sights set on GatorNights and Reitz Union Board Entertainment.
In December, Allen asked his Twitter followers 
to suggest colleges he could perform at. 
Olivia Masih, an 18-year-old UF business ad-ministration freshman, immediately emailed him. When Allen emailed her back, she posted a screen-shot of the message to the UF Class of 2020 Face-book page to show other students, she said. 
Her post has gathered more than 350 likes and 
reactions since.
“I ﬁ  gured there was a couple people here and 
there that would be interested or agree with me, but I didn’t think the numbers would be like this,” 
Masih said.
Dillon Knox, the director of SGP, wrote in an 
email he cannot comment on potential shows but 
has heard student requests.
“However, there are multiple other consider-
ations in planning other shows,” Knox said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgStudents rally to bring 
rapper Hoodie Allen to UF
The Associated Press 
The former head of President Donald 
Trump’s transition team at the Environ-
mental Protection Agency said Thursday he expects the new administration to seek signiﬁ  cant budget and staff cuts.
Myron Ebell said in an interview with 
The Associated Press that Trump is like-ly to seek signiﬁ  cant reductions to the agency’s workforce — currently about 15,000 employees nationwide. Ebell, who left the transition team last week, declined to discuss speciﬁ  c numbers of EPA staff that could be targeted for pink slips.
Asked what he would personally like 
to see, however, Ebell said slashing the agency’s size by about half would be a good start.
Although he kept speciﬁ  c recom-
mendations he made to the White House 
conﬁ  dential, Ebell suggested it was rea-
sonable to expect the president to seek a cut of about $1 billion from the EPA’s roughly $8 billion annual budget.
He said the cuts would likely fall on 
the remaining half the agency’s budget, which pays for agency operations and environmental enforcement.
“I think the administration is likely to 
start proposing cuts to the 15,000 staff, because the fact is that a huge amount of the work of the EPA is actually done by state agencies,” Ebell said. “It’s not clear why so many employees are needed at the federal level.”Oﬃ   cial: Trump wants 
to cut EPA budget, staﬀ  FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sophia Carballo 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Jake Gustafson broke his leg half-
way through his senior year of high school, 
he would never be able to play football again.
“It was really devastating, mainly be-
cause I didn’t get to end the game on my own terms,” the now UF finance junior said. “I was never good enough to play college football, and I knew that, but I wanted to get 
the most out of high school.” This year, Gustafson, 20, will get the 
chance to relive the  friday-night-lights fan-tasies of his youth.
In February, tryouts will begin for UF’s 
first club tackle football team. The team will 
give students like Gustafson the chance to 
continue playing contact football but with-
out the pressures of the UF’s Division I 
team, said Arron Tsipis, a 20-year-old UF marketing junior who co-founded the team with friend Alex Howell.
“We want to create an avenue where 
(football players) could fulfill their dream of playing that sport and being at the Universi-ty of Florida at the same time,” Howell said. 
Players will compete with the Nation-
al Club Football Association in a series of games against 30 teams from across the U.S. this Fall, he said. 
Gustafson, who went to high school in 
Sonora, California, said although he could 
have played football at a lesser-known uni-
versity, he wanted to attend UF instead.  
“I didn’t want to sacrifice going to a less-
er school academically to just play Division 
III football, or something like that, because I 
wanted to prioritize academics in this stage of my life,” Gustafson said. “It’s kind of cool because now, if I play for this team, I could get the best of both worlds.” 
Howell, a 20-year-old UF construction 
management junior, said he helped create 
the team to give students like Gustafson a 
chance to reemerge and play the sport again.
The team will field about 45 male stu-
dents, and 40 students have already signed 
up for tryouts, Tsipis said. Howell said along 
with giving students the chance to play the 
sport, they want to build a community. 
“The guys won’t be playing for money, 
and they won’t be playing for the opportu-
nity to be in the NFL,” Tsipis said. “Mostly 
it’s going to be for themselves and for the team.”UF’s first club football team to hold tryouts in February
A NEW PARTY, PROGRESS 
PARTY, PLANS TO HAVE 
SENATE CANDIDATES.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Access Party will not run candi-
dates for the Student Government 
executive ticket, the party presi-dent said Thursday.
Access Party President Michael 
Russel said he reenlisted the par-ty Thursday in order to keep the name after learning an unknown person tried to register it Tuesday.  The party will not be interviewing  Student Senate candidates.
This is the first semester the 
party will not be running candi-dates for Student Body president, vice president or treasurer since its founding in Spring 2015, according 
to Alligator archives. 
Russel said the party did not feel 
like the political climate was ready 
for another Access run. 
“We’re not officially closing the 
door on any opportunities,” the 20-year-old said. “We will defi-
nitely be keeping our eye on what 
Student Government does.”
He said Access Party is current-
ly not endorsing any other party or candidate but still supports online voting. 
“We encourage anyone who 
wants to make a difference in Stu-dent Government to run with a 
party or run as an independent,” 
the UF political science and crimi-nology and law junior said. 
For Casey Witte, a UF finance freshman, he’s hoping to bring change to UF through his new party. 
After running an unsuccess-
ful independent campaign for the Rawlings Senate seat in Fall, the 
18-year-old decided to switch tac-
tics and “fight fire with fire” by cre-ating Progress Party to challenge Impact Party Senate seats.
Witte, the party’s president, reg-
istered the party about a week ago, he said. The last party that was named Progress Party disbanded in 2011, according to Alligator ar-
chives. 
“This is a fresh start,” he said. 
“I felt that it might be a cliche, 
but progress needed to be done on campus.”
Witte said he wants the party to 
be the voice of all students, not just Greek-affiliated ones. 
“Progress Party is for the stu-
dents first and foremost,” he said. “We don’t have any ulterior mo-tives.”
He said Progress Party does not 
have plans to run an executive tick-et but will run candidates for UF’s Student Senate. 
Witte and about 14 officers and 
volunteers will be polling students 
to see what changes they want to 
make, he said. He hopes to inspire more students to vote in the elec-tion by giving them a new voice. 
“It may not sound like a lot,” he 
said. “But people often underesti-mate the power of a few dedicated individuals.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgAccess Party will not run 
executive candidates THE DONATION DRIVE IS SET  
TO START FEB. 3.
By Courtney Moberley 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Two UF students want to tackle the stig-
ma surrounding women’s health and peri-
ods. 
Emily Rodriguez, 20, started Gators for 
Camions of Care, a UF chapter of the nation-
al organization, after realizing there weren’t any UF clubs devoted to women’s health. 
Members aim to educate middle- and 
high-school students about periods. The organization will also begin collecting pads and tampons for those in need through UF’s Field and Fork Pantry.
“Locally, there’s a lot of homeless women 
who don’t have access to these products,” said the UF applied physiology and kinesi-ology junior. “Our mission is to be able to educate the community and collect products to change that.”Although women make up more than 
half of the U.S. population, they can be over-looked when it comes to basic needs, she said.
“I think it’s time for us women to just em-
brace it and talk about it,” Rodriguez said.
The club will collect donations monthly, 
at the Field and Fork Pantry because pads and tampons aren’t available there, Rodri-guez said. The drive might also begin Feb. 3, depending on how many donations mem-bers collect beforehand.Rodriguez said laws regarding periods, 
like the “tampon tax,” the refusal of states to give tax exemptions for feminine-hygiene products, frustrate her.
Melanie Vargas, 19, the organization’s 
vice president, said while attending an all-girls school for seven years, she became comfortable talking about periods. 
“Women need to advocate for other 
women and support each other,” the UF bi-ology sophomore said.
UF club to collect pads, tampons at Field and Fork Pantry
TWO KNOWN NATIONAL GANGS  
ARE IN GAINESVILLE.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gang-related violence has been on the rise in 
Gainesville over the past two years, police officials 
said on Thursday.
At a monthly Police Advisory Council meeting, 
Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones said there are 
at least two known national gangs in the city, True 
Bloods and Gangster Disciples, and that GPD has seen a rise in both rumors and official reports of gang violence.
“Gangs are real in Gainesville,” he said. “If you 
see something, report something.”
Jones said the rise has become more than a law 
enforcement issue — it’s a community issue.
“This is something law enforcement can’t solve 
on its own,” he said.
Attempts to prevent gangs start in elementa-ry- and middle-school programs, Jones said. The Gang Resistance Education and Training program is a national, officer-instructed law enforcement curriculum to help stop youth violence and gang membership. Although the gang issues occur throughout the city, they are not near UF.
The next step is to provide former gang mem-
bers, who are released from prison, with resources 
and support when they re-enter society, he said.
GPD Capt. Jorge Campos said children and 
young adults turn to gangs when they come from 
low-income backgrounds and lack necessities.
When people’s basic needs aren’t being met, 
they look for other alternatives,” he said.
They see the gang as their family and find a 
sense of belonging within it, he said.
Gainesville residents and UF students should 
be aware of their surroundings and stay in groups when going out at night, Campos said.
“It’s not your typical things that you see in the 
movies,” he said.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgGang violence rising in Gainesville 
Paige Fry / Alligator
Members of the Police Advisory Council talk about increased gang violence in Gainesville. 
Players will compete nationallyThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s certainly been a week, around the globe, the country 
and campus. The semester is just starting to pick up, and if 
you’re waiting in that snaking Starbucks line at the Hub and your phone’s dead, then why not turn to this week’s issue of
Darts & Laurels
First off, President Donald Trump has passed a handful 
of contentious executive actions within his first week in of-fice. These range from cutting federal funds to organizations that provide or “promote” abortions overseas to ordering the construction of two highly controversial oil pipelines, the Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines. If there was a way to even further alienate the half of the country that did not vote for him, boy did he do that. All the claims of “Give him a chance!” seem a little too late right now. The extreme things that half of the country feared the most — the ones they were told would not happen — well, it looks like they’re happening. So a dart through all 12 executive orders or memoranda Trump has signed so far. 
If you want to unite the country, Mr. President, you 
shouldn’t immediately pass orders that you know half the country is going to despise.
Amid a government-ordered Twitter blackout, one na-
tional park has risen to be the hero we all need. The of-ficial Twitter of Badlands National Park started tweeting facts about climate change in response to the president’s silencing of the National Park Service. The tweets were later removed, but a host of “alternative” national agency social media accounts have sprung up, including AltUSNatPark-Service and Rogue NASA. To these unsuspecting heroes 
of government resistance, we bestow a laurel. Lead us into the future, National Park Service. “Parks and Recre-ation” heroine Leslie Knope would be proud.
Now back to the executive orders, because honestly one 
dart didn’t suffice. One of the most recent, perhaps the most bombastic executive actions Trump has spearheaded deserves a little attention of its own. The wall. Yes, that infamous wall that is supposed to protect our great nation from northbound immigrants. There are so many things logistically wrong with that wall. Since obviously Mexico was never going to pay for it, apparently the solution is to consider a 20-percent tax on Mexican goods, which means that the funding for this wall will come from the American people. We don’t know about you, but that’s a lot of money that could go to better causes. Additionally, just the concept of a wall designed to keep out invaders is so archaic. The existence of border walls only fuels immigration through more dangerous means. We’re throwing a dart to those 
wall plans, because of all the promises we thought Trump would keep, we hoped it wouldn’t be that one.
Closer to home, there is no doubt you heard about the 
next performers coming to UF: Big Sean and Lil Yachty. Af-ter a list of lackluster artists, UF students will finally be able to brag about going to a concert where the performers aren’t 10 years past their prime. And considering tickets sold out Thursday, it’s no doubt it’s going to be lit. So we give a laurel to Student Government Productions for organizing 
the Feb. 15 show, because after the week most of us have had, this show is a nice pick-me-up.
And finally, with the Lunar New Year around the corner 
and more than 1 billion people around the world celebrat-ing it, let’s take a moment to focus on the positive aspects of the year and celebrate the diversity of our campus and the strength we find through it. A laurel to the Year of the 
Rooster — may it be a good one.
“Why march?” Because we love our country 
Let me start by apologizing for bequeathing to you another article about politics — I re-alize most of you are rather apathetic to-ward the topic at this point. Be that as it may, this concept is too big to ignore.
On Saturday, a good friend of mine texted me 
saying she didn’t understand the point of the re-actionary marches that spread across the world and saw about a million protesters take to the streets.
I’ll admit I am guilty of seeking asylum in my 
liberal-minded bubble, and I often miss out on what the population of conservatives thinks. As a result, I was genu-inely unaware that many conservatives didn’t understand the point of the marches.
First and foremost, I must explain that marchers did not 
expect to make a couple of signs and have a new president. They did not expect to recite a couple of chants and see an end to the Republican agenda. Moreover, contrary to what President Donald Trump’s Twitter account suggested, marchers did, indeed, vote. In fact, about 3 million more Americans voted for Hillary Clinton than Trump last No-vember.
The women, men and children across the globe who 
spent Saturday protesting did not do so with the intention of abolishing the Trump administration. They were doing so to empower those who need empowering and to remind the world that the needs of the millions of marginalized Americans are not going to just go away. The women, peo-ple of color, members of the LGBTQ+ community and ev-ery other person who feels threatened and scared for their freedom under a Trump presidency are still here and will not stop fighting to protect their rights.
One thing that must be made clear is that the people 
who marched do not, under any circumstances, believe they are not privileged. However, that does not mean they are not oppressed. All of the marginalized groups that I mentioned before, as well as many others, are starting off Trump’s presidency several notches below the straight white males that voted him into office. No one can say women are not paid less than men, that racism does not exist, that homophobia does not impact the lives of thou-sands of Americans or that sexual assault is not taken with a grain of salt in our court systems. All of this is oppression.
The millions of Americans who already find 
themselves oppressed or marginalized are now 
at risk of their afflictions being amplified. Trump has made comments that have objectified women, belittled the dis-abled and all-around disgusted Americans who believe in equality. His policy plans not only threaten to hinder the road to equality for these groups, but to set back equality hundreds of years. 
Trump has said he not only plans to outlaw abortion by 
overturning the 44-year-old verdict of Roe v. Wade, but also that women who do have abortions should be punished. He plans to defund Planned Parenthood, leaving thousands of women without access to birth control and health services. He plans to call for a “total and complete shutdown of Mus-lims entering the United States,” labeling all of them as ter-rorists. He plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act, leaving more than 3 million Americans without healthcare.
The plans I have mentioned are only an infinitesimal 
part of the dogmatist plans Trump has for the U.S. Unfortu-nately, I have only 650 words to explain to the world why we are scared and why we are fighting.
We marched because our country is ignoring us. Be-
cause our country wants to take away our rights. Because our country is no longer a safe place for us. We marched because we love our country and we want to keep loving it. We marched because we care.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORAbigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgAn open letter to the UF and Gainesville 
communities — and the rest of the world
On Thursday, I stood for more than four 
hours on Turlington Plaza staring at hate: an 
individual who came to our campus wearing a swastika armband.
I will admit that when I saw him stand-
ing on Turlington, my rage rose like wildﬁ  re. You see, I am Jewish, and that symbol does not sit well with me, as you might imagine (I should note, too, that one of my areas of research is in visual rhetoric — how we use images to communicate and exchange mean-
ing). I admit that I approached the Nazi with 
the intent of violence. Fortunately, the two University Police ofﬁ  cers already on the plaza intervened, along with Rabbi Berl Goldman. 
But my rage did not abate.
About two weeks ago, the UF community 
received an email from UF President Kent 
Fuchs in regard to a noose found in a cam-pus classroom. He wrote to us: “I want to be clear that I believe symbols of hate and racism undermine the kind of community that is so vital to the university’s goals of mutual under-standing and respect. I also want to be clear that racial discrimination has no place at our university.”
However, Thursday’s symbol 
of hate was given both a place and police protection right in the heart of our campus.
Several times throughout the day, we 
heard the term “free speech” as a justiﬁ  cation for why this individual was allowed to remain on the plaza. Let me be clear, though: This was not free speech. This was hate speech. 
Free speech does not guarantee you an au-dience, that someone has to listen 
to you. On Thursday we were not given a choice.
UF has the ﬁ  fth-largest Jewish 
student population in the country. The fact that our campus speciﬁ  -cally was targeted for this incite-
ment seems to suggest the intent to harm.
Several times during the day, I 
wondered if this would be the case if someone 
had shown up wearing a Ku Klux Klan hood 
and holding the noose President Fuchs spoke 
of. I’m betting not. 
I don’t want to suggest a homology be-
tween the KKK and Nazis. They have their 
historical distinctions, and each is horriﬁ  c.When the Nazi on Turlington threw his 
hand up in a heil-Hitler salute to the plaza, he 
did so to taunt us. The administration should have escorted the Nazi off our campus the moment he was spotted for the simple reason that he was there for no other purpose than to instigate and speak hate.
I am grateful for the students, faculty, ad-
ministrators, staff, community members and everyone else who made clear to the hate-mongering visitor that his presence is not welcome. And when he asked me to have the police escort him out, he was broken. His 
voice quivered, his commitment lost: a cow-
ard scared.
But, we did not win anything Thursday. 
Instead, we were given heed to be alert.
Never again.
Sid Dobrin is the chair of the UF Depart-
ment of English.
Letters to the EditorFRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
“Let me be clear, though: This was not free speech.
This was hate speech."opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
time drawing a crowd of protest-
ers. He began circling the potato statue on Turlington Plaza at about 9 a.m.
He remained for about four 
hours, prompting backlash from students offended and angered by the swastika. By noon, the crowd had grown about 100 people.
When some students saw his 
display, they stood around De-witz with anti-Nazi signs while others resorted to yelling at the man, who stood calmly.
Marco Fonseca, a 22-year-old 
UF philosophy junior, held an image of Wonder Woman punch-ing President Donald Trump, 
with a swastika superimposed on 
Trump’s face.
“I wasn’t going to give him the 
space to do what he was going to do,” Fonseca said.
Irene Moore, a 21-year-old 
UF business managment senior, joined in.
“It was either stand up or 
punch a Nazi,” she said. “This is the better option, legality-wise.”
As the crowd grew, University 
Police officers and UF officials looked on. Jaime Gresley, the director of new student family 
programs, handed out U Matter, 
We Care cards for students who might be distressed. 
Dewitz, who said he supported 
Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, said his presence was 
a social experiment meant to 
prompt discussion.
“I am upset that (the protest-
ers) are upset,” he said. “Because they don’t understand my inten-tions.”
On Tuesday, when Dewitz 
was first seen on campus wearing the swastika, a woman in a car screamed at him and tried to run him over, and a man told him he wanted to kill him, he said.
“I don’t wish to hurt anyone,” 
Dewitz said.
But Rabbi Berl Goldman, of the 
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student 
and Community Center, said De-
witz went to the religious center at 8 a.m. Thursday to look for him.
On his way, Dewitz passed a 
student wearing a kippah, a re-ligious head covering, and gave the student a Nazi salute, Gold-man said.
Jacob Zieper, a 21-year-old UF 
Jewish studies senior, was on his way to minyan, morning prayers, when Dewitz yelled at him from across the street at the corner 
of Northwest Fifth Avenue and 
Northwest 20th Street. 
“I know he meant it to in-
timidate me,” Zieper said. “So 
I went to shul and prayed with 
my friends. You can’t fight hate with hate. Hate is irrational. You just have got to drown it out with pride and love.”
Dewitz said he lost his job 
Wednesday after his employers told him they didn’t want to be associated with someone who 
wore a swastika.
Dewitz said while he under-
stands the swastika is a hate sym-
bol, he sympathizes with the Nazi party because, he argued, they 
fought communism. In an inter-
view with WCJB TV-20 published Wednesday, Dewitz questioned if the Holocaust happened.A protestor, who refused to 
give her name, told an Alligator 
reporter Dewitz shouldn’t be giv-
en a voice.
Goldman said although Dewitz 
has a right to express his free 
speech, others could be inspired 
to act with hatred toward Jewish people based on his display.
“He’s antagonistic,” Goldman 
said. “He’s wearing a symbol 
of hate and intolerance. There 
should be thousands of people shouting him down.”
After the incident, UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs sent an email to UF students supporting the pro-test, but noting UF could not ask Dewitz to leave a public space.
“While I decry and denounce 
all symbols of hate, the indi-
vidual...was expressing his First 
Amendment rights and we could not legally remove him from pub-lic areas of campus,” he said.
Sid Dobrin, the chair of the 
UF Department of English, said he doesn’t believe the freedom of speech encompasses hate rheto-ric. 
“I don’t tolerate s--- like this,” 
said Dobrin, who is Jewish. “Af-ter I saw this crap on Facebook,  I realized I had to do something about it since (Fuchs) is just sending out cards.” 
Dobrin, wearing a kippah, em-
phasized UF has the fifth-largest 
Jewish student population among 
U.S. universities.
He mentioned that administra-
tion responded when a noose was 
found in a Weimer Hall classroom 
Jan. 12, but has yet to remove De-witz, who he said is also spouting hate.
“By putting that symbol on, he 
is inherently choosing to rile peo-ple like me up,” Dobrin said. “By walking outside with that symbol, he is an aggression.”
PROTEST,  from pg. 1Dewitz said his presence 
was a social experiment
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
A guitarist plays music behind Michael Dewitz, who stood on Turlington Plaza with a swastika on his 
sleeve. About 100 students gathered on the plaza Thursday to protest Dewitz’s use of the symbol.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Michal Katz (right), an administrative worker at the UF Dean’s Office, displays her Star of David tattoo while standing next to Michael Dewitz (left), who wears a swastika on his sleeve near Turlington Hall. Students surrounded Dewitz, yelling at him and holding signs in front of his face, for about four hours on Thursday.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A man shouts at 34-year-old Michael Dewitz (right) on Turlington Plaza on Thursday morning during a protest. Dewitz was later attacked after leaving campus.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/17.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/17.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MOREPRESERVE WATER
TICK.TOCK.
Reduce your showertimeby 2 min.devour turkey legs and ale from 160 
tents Saturday, Sunday and Feb. 3 through Feb. 5.
Over the past 24 years, Grifﬁ  n 
has painted faces exclusively at Re-naissance fairs. Hoggetowne, a bus-tling medieval village in Gainesville 
set hundreds of years before the 
Renaissance period, is the only ex-
ception.
In her prime, Grifﬁ  n went to 
eight shows a year. Now, at 64, and 
with a bad left knee to boot, she’s dialing it back.
Like Grifﬁ  n, many vendors don’t 
live in the area, but they make the yearly haul to Hoggetowne for a reason.
This year, alongside her RV-
dwelling cats, Hannah and Herman, Grifﬁ  n will drive her 34-foot motor home to four other fairs in the U.S.
“That’s enough to keep me off the streets and out of the martini bars long enough,” she said, laugh-
ing.
In the days prior to the fair, Grif-
ﬁ  n will catch up with friends, old 
and new, but when the gates ﬁ  nally 
open, all of her time will be devoted 
to her customers.
Grifﬁ  n said she won’t ever aban-
don her booth during the event — even to watch a nearby joust or me-
dieval duel. 
“How much would you like to 
spend?” Grifﬁ  n asked. “I can ac-
commodate whatever your fanta-
sies are.”
•   •   •
Flying ﬁ  sts, high kicks and fre-
quent battles sporadically occur 
throughout the event.
On a live-action chessboard, in 
a ﬁ  eld carefully spray-painted with squares, Sara Greenberg can be found defeating her partner, Chris 
Rodd-Layedra.With sword in hand, Greenberg, 
a 22-year-old UF alumna, will ﬁ  ght 
— and defeat — Rodd-Layedra ﬁ  ve times: once a day for the duration 
of the fair.
This will be her fourth time and 
Rodd-Layedra’s third performing at 
the fair. Both are members of local acting troupe The Thieves Guilde, a 
group that re-enacts battles from the 
medieval and Renaissance periods.
Greenberg joined the troupe dur-
ing her sophomore year at UF after 
hearing about it at an informational 
booth. For Rodd-Layedra, 24, a ra-dio advertisement was all it took to get hooked on swords, daggers and choreographed battles.
The pair auditioned for their 
roles in the fall and have practiced dueling at the local YMCA every Saturday and Sunday since.
If the amateur actors don’t prac-
tice enough, fake ﬁ  ghting can have very real repercussions, Greenberg said.
“I don’t think I’ve hit you,” she 
said, looking toward her compan-ion. “I’ve hit other partners unin-
tentionally. I think virtually every-
one who has done this for quite a while has had some horror story.”
For Rodd-Layedra, the only con-
sequence waiting for him is a dirty 
costume.
•   •   •
Sharon Crystal has dressed al-
most everyone at Hoggetowne in 
one way or another.
“I’ve clothed everybody for 45 
years,” the 81-year-old said. “Every-one, mostly.”
Crystal’s interest in medieval 
garb started 57 years ago at the Original Renaissance Pleasure Faire in California, her home state.
Since then, Crystal’s job has been 
to sell historically inspired clothing, 
which she personally designs and 
creates, at nearly every Renaissance fair in the country.
“A lot of us have made a business 
of this,” she said of the Renaissance 
fair circuit, which she compared to 
a small nation of immigrants. “My god, what a beautiful life.”
This year, Crystal will travel to 
17 fairs to sell her custom designs, which are priced between $75 and $750.
The most popular garments 
bought in Crystal’s tent are lace-up 
corsets.
Those who purchase them also 
receive a complimentary lesson on 
how to put them on — or their hus-
bands do.
“It’s been a long road, but it’s 
the most beautiful career you could 
have,” she said. 
Like many vendors, Hoggetowne 
will be the ﬁ  rst stop on Bryan and Mary Nowland’s Renaissance cir-
cuit.
For ﬁ  ve consecutive years, Mr. 
and Mrs. Nowland have driven 18 
hours from Michigan to sell cheese 
ball and dip mixes and custom-
made toe rings at the medieval fair.
Mr. Nowland is in charge of the 
jewelry. Mrs. Nowland presides over the cheese.
“We stopped working our real 
jobs and decided to do something different,” Mr. Nowland, 59, said.
The couple started selling their 
diverse selection of goods at farm-er’s markets but found that events with admission costs were more lu-
crative.
“The biggest draw for me is the 
personalities of the people,” Mr. 
Nowland said. “Even the new crew has become our friends in a couple 
of days.”FAIR,  from pg. 1Attendees travel from all over the country to attend the event
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Chris Rodd-Layedra, 24, and Sara Greenberg, 22, pose for a photo on 
Wednesday. They’re partners for a performance at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Jan. 28, Jan. 29 and Feb. 3 through  Feb. 5. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Chris Rodd-Layedra, 24, and Sara Greenberg, 22, practice a ﬁ  ghting routine at the Alachua County Fairgrounds on Wednesday. Rodd-Layedra ﬁ  ghts with a sword while Greenberg ﬁ  ghts with a staff.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-27-17-10-1
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-27-17-5-2
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
Queen Futon - like new
Beautiful hardwood frame and beach design cover. $225 - call 352-262-7706      1-27-17-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      1-27-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647       1-27-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
Designated drivers are the greatestLive Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger & Harder Immediately!
Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely.
Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed. 
Free Brochure: 1-800-354-3944
www.DrJoelKaplan.com       1-27-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventure
comedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18
ALMIGHTY GOD, bring me out of the miry 
clay of sin. Set me upon the Unmovable Rock, Jesus Christ. Establish my Life in Christ. www.Christ-is-all.us       1-27-1-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
AFFORDABLE CAREER TRAINING!ONLINE OR ON CAMPUS.Medical Office, Accounting, IT andAdministrative Certificate Program Choices. CALL FOR ANSWERS 1-888-535-9909or CLICK learn.Sctrain.edu    1-27-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years. Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305      1-27-1-16
ACROSS
1 Like much of the
Southwest
5 Summer music?
10 Org. funded by
FICA
13 Under-the-sink
brand
15 “Paper Moon”
Oscar winner
16 Like ibuprofen,
briefly
17 POINT
19 Jiff20 “Nothing planned
that day”
21 Engineering sch.
on the Hudson
22 Sport with masks23 GAME26 Move a finger or
two, maybe
28 Physics units29 Signs over30 1945 Pacific battle
site, familiarly
31 Superfan
32 Superhero
played by Chris
Hemsworth
34 With 36-Across,
question for thecourt
36 See 34-Across
40 Exercise woe
42 Alex Dunphy, to
Luke, on
“Modern Family”
43 Mojito ingredient44 “Not a problem”47 Stuff in a
backpack
49 Little stretches
50 SET53 Captain Picard’s
counselor
54 Unexpectedly by
itself, as in thedryer
55 Kenya neighbor
58 Storybook baddie59 MATCH61 Programming
pioneer Lovelace
62 Stopped lying63 Sphere64 Common scale
extreme
65 Org. chart
headings
66 Crack up
DOWN
1 When Lear
disinheritsCordelia2 “Home on the
Range” verb
3 Take unfair
advantage of
4 “Quantum
Healing” author
Chopra
5 Throw on6 Ilsa portrayer7 Overlook, as a
fault
8 “A Doubter’s
Almanac”novelist Ethan
9 Dated
10 Under-the-sink
brand
11 “Remington __”12 Hacker’s goal14 Nonkosher18 Pressed for time22 Manicurist’s tool24 Expose, with “on”
25 Desktop
assortment
26 Cherry center
27 Lamb parent31 “Pink Friday”
singer Minaj
33 Coiffure35 “The End of
America” authorWolf
37 Avenue after
Reading Railroad38 Worn end39 Scrabble three-
pointers
41 Wonton
alternative
42 Brazilian map
word
44 “Maybe less”45 Intemperate
speech
46 Apple’s 
“Think different,”e.g.48 Like Meg March,
in “Little Women”
49 Emergency
signals
51 Bete __52 Food thickener56 Poet Walter __
Mare
57 Large number59 Pokémon Go,
e.g.
60 French
possessive
By Patti Varol©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/27/1701/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Despite a strong performance from senior Ronni Williams, the Florida women's basketball team lost to T ennessee on Thursday. Read the story, pg. 14UF baseball ranked near top in latest preseason poll
Florida's baseball team is ranked second in the country, according to the 
USA T oday Coaches Poll, released Wednesday. Florida trails only TCU, with 
LSU, South Carolina and Florida State ﬁ  lling out the top ﬁ  ve. By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Florida’s 35-point blowout win at 
LSU on Wednesday snapped a losing 
streak, jazzed the locker room and 
re-introduced No. 25 UF’s overlooked 
weapons on offense. 
It was more than a win. It was a 
historic offensive onslaught.
The Gators sank a school-record 19 
three-pointers. 
They scored the most points in a 
ﬁ  rst half (58) since UF started keeping records in 1996. 
Their 106 points were the most UF 
has ever scored in an SEC road game that didn’t end in overtime.
Florida’s scoring torrent was crucial 
for a drought-stricken UF offense that made just 19 percent of three-pointers during its two-game losing streak. 
Gators coach Mike White confessed 
before traveling to Baton Rouge that he 
didn’t know how to unclutter UF’s of-
fense. So when talking to reporters on Thursday, he made a point to shift the credit to the players rather than any-
thing the staff had done differently. 
“It wasn’t me. It was our guys,” the 
second-year coach said.
“They met for a long time, about 2 
hours … and just kind of recommitted to a higher level of focus.”
The players emphasized defensive 
focus at the meeting, which White said 
made it odd when the Gators logged 
their most effective offensive showcase 
of the year. 
Even more unexpected was a perfect 
5-for-5 performance on three-pointers from freshman Eric Hester. Hester 
came into the game having only played 
50 minutes of college basketball, and left the game with 16 points, more than he’d scored in UF’s 19 games prior to Wednesday. 
Hester — who was recruited for his 
hounding defense — registered the ﬁ  rst 5-for-5 three-point game of the decade for UF.
But he wasn’t the only unexpected 
stat-sheet stuffer. 
Junior point guard Chris Chiozza 
dished a career-high 10 assists in the game as well. 
Florida forward Devin Robinson also 
stamped out his slump Wednesday in 
Baton Rouge. Florida’s third-leading 
scorer notched a career-best 24 points, shattering a six-game streak where he never scored more than 12. 
“I thought Devin was amazing,” 
White said. “Devin played arguably his best game as a Gator.”
But despite a rebranded identity 
on offense, Florida’s defense has held only one opponent to under 43 percent shooting since conference play began in 2016. 
Florida’s defense will get a chance 
to make a statement on Saturday, when UF takes a break from its SEC slate to play at Oklahoma (8-11) in the SEC/Big 
12 Challenge. 
“Hopefully we can maintain some 
momentum,” White said. “You would 
think that our locker room right now has got some conﬁ  dence in that we 
bounced back”
But despite an emphatic snapping 
of UF’s losing streak on Wednesday, 
White said Florida has to keep up the 
intensity. 
“We haven’t ﬁ  xed anything,” he 
said. “We’re not a great team. But 
we’ve had a good few days here, and we need several more.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org Gators step back from slippery slope
With nearly seven minutes left in the game, 
Eric Hester stood deep beyond the right wing with the ball in his hands. 
As the seconds ticked off the shot clock, 
LSU’s Jalyn Patterson stood ﬁ  rm in his 
defensive stance, daring the freshman guard to shoot it. After a series of jab steps and head fakes, Hester launched a deep, high-arching shot toward the basket.
Swish. Not even 30 seconds later, he hit another three.Then another.And then ﬁ  nally, with just over a minute left in the 
contest, Hester stepped into a line-drive triple from the top of the key and buried it over the outstretched arms of the Tigers’ Skylar Mays.
All together, Hester scored a career-high 16 points in 
No. 25 Florida’s 106-71 route of LSU (9-10, 1-7 SEC) on Wednesday night in Baton Rouge. 
His 5-for-5 performance from beyond the arc 
marked him as the ﬁ  rst UF player to shoot 100 percent from three with ﬁ  ve-plus makes since Walter Hodge went 5-for-5 against Stetson in 2006.
What an encouraging sign for a team that’s set to 
graduate its starting point guard in the spring.
While it’s arguable that Hester didn’t play any 
meaningful minutes against the Tigers, as the Gators (15-5, 6-2 SEC) held a monstrous lead almost the entire night, his play is most certainly a great sign for Florida’s future at the point guard position. 
Florida’s current starting point guard, Kasey Hill, is  Point guard Eric 
Hester’s performance 
against LSU was 
encouraging sign
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Tonight's meet is more than just 
a battle between No. 3 Florida and 
No. 16 Auburn in the O’Connell 
Center.
It’s about honoring and raising 
awareness for a completely differ-ent battle: the ﬁ  ght against breast 
cancer.
“Just being able to (be) out on 
the competition ﬂ  oor with survi-
vors, with those who are ﬁ  ghting 
cancer, with those who have fought cancer," Florida coach Jenny Row-land said, "it really is an amazing 
platform that we are able to set aside what we are about and raise aware-
ness for a such a special cause."
The Gators and Tigers will both 
shed their school colors tonight, 
opting for a pink scheme in honor of 
the 11th annual Link to Pink meet, honoring the ﬁ  ghters and survivors of the disease.
But this won’t be the ﬁ  rst time that Florida has helped the Gainesville community this season.
On Jan. 18, the Gators traveled 
to Gainesville’s American Cancer 
Society Winn-Dixie Hope Lodge, 
where they provided dinner to the residents who are receiving treat-ment as a team.
It's something the team does ev-ery year around Link to Pink.
“It was really neat,” freshman 
Amelia Hundley said. “Getting to come in and serving the food to ev-
eryone and getting to sit down and 
really get to know everyone’s sto-ries. You know, it makes you really appreciate what you have in life. ...  Florida's meet vs Auburn to recognize those aﬀ  ected by cancerThe Associated Press
Mike White yells on the sideline during Florida's 106-71 win over LSU on 
Wednesday. He credited his players for the offensive explosion. 
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 14SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14HERE COMES THE BOONE
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994UF visits Oklahoma Satur day
GYMNASTICSMEN'S BASKETBALL14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
FLORIDA PLAYS DEPAUL  
AT 2 P .M.
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Fireworks.
That’s what head coach Roland Thorn-
qvist told fans they should expect to see from the new doubles formation of Anna Danilina and Ingrid Neel. The two had success at the Freeman Memorial Cham-pionships two weeks ago, and they plan to carry that with them into the regular season. 
However, it’s not just Danilina and 
Neel who fans should be excited to see, Thornqvist added. 
“This is perhaps the most talented team 
that I’ve had at Florida in 16 years,” he said.
The team is entering the season with a 
host of accolades, including a No. 1 rank-
ing, the coaches’ pick to win the SEC for 
the second consecutive year, four top-25 
doubles formations and two top-25 play-
ers. But according to Thornqvist, the 
Gators haven’t paid any attention to the outside noise. 
“When we had this No. 1 ranking thing 
come out, I don’t think we spent more than two seconds worrying about that,” he said. “They know there’s zero correlation between the first ranking in January and the last one in May, so they know what’s ahead and they know the work they need to put in to get there. I think the experi-ence will tell them, or has told them, or is telling them that you’ve got to focus on the stuff you can control on the way.”On Saturday, Florida will try to control 
its season-opening match against DePaul. 
The team has been playing matches inter-
nally this week in an attempt to finalize 
a lineup for this weekend’s tournament. 
However, with an experienced team full of 
talent, Thornqvist knows that this is just 
the beginning. 
“Although we’re playing at a high level 
now, I think the longer the season goes, we’re going to continue to improve and evolve as a team,” he said.
The Gators will open their Spring sea-
son against DePaul at 2 p.m. on Saturday. The winner of the Florida-DePaul match will face the winner of FIU and USF on Sunday at 2 p.m.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.orgGators to open season on Saturday  By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Tennessee may be five years removed 
from legendary coach Pat Summitt leading 
its sideline, but nothing has changed when 
it comes to the Volunteers beating up on the Gators.
Playing in front of a crowd of 2,059 at 
the O’Connell Center on Thursday, Ten-nessee ran its all-time record against Flori-da up to 49-4, defeating UF 84-75.
The Volunteers were led by redshirt 
junior guard Diamond DeShields, who 
totaled 27 points on an efficient 9-of-13 
shooting performance. Junior guard Jaime Nared had a solid night as well, scoring 16 points and pulling down seven rebounds.
The Gators, on the other hand, received 
a standout offensive outing from senior for-ward Ronni Williams. The Daytona Beach native tallied 31 points on 10-of-18 shoot-ing from the floor and 11-of-13 shooting 
from the charity stripe.
Despite picking up her fourth foul half-
way through the third quarter to limit her 
minutes in the second half, Williams was 
able to record the second 30-point game 
of her career, receiving praise from coach Amanda Butler after the loss.
“She’s just been a model example of 
what a senior looks like, what a competi-
tor looks like and what a pro athlete looks 
like,” Butler said.
Regardless of Williams' performance,  though, three-point shooting and free-throw attempts were ultimately UF’s 
downfall.
Florida (10-10, 1-6 SEC) struggled all 
night from behind the arc, missing nine of 
its 10 attempts to continue its woes from 
deep in 2017. Tennessee also went to the 
charity stripe 18 more times than Florida did, drawing frustration from junior for-ward Haley Lorenzen.
“We know that we’re better than that,” 
Lorenzen said. “We know that when we get a good team at the free-throw line, they’re usually going to make those shots. Those were easy points that are the differ-
ence maker in the game.”
Tennessee (13-7, 4-3 SEC) set the tone 
early on in the contest, knocking down 
seven of its first eight shots to spark a 27-10 run.
But the Gators clawed back, scoring the 
game’s next 13 points off four made bas-kets from Williams to reduce the Volun-teers' lead to four.
Florida hit a cold streak once again to 
finish the half, however, falling back into a 48-34 deficit heading into the intermission.
“We’re really disappointed in our first 
half,” Butler said. “That was kind of the 
story of the game for us.”
UF improved in the game’s final 20 
minutes of action, pulling down 11 offen-
sive rebounds to generate seven second-
chance points.
The Gators' 46.9 shooting percentage in the second half assisted them in outscor-
ing the Volunteers 41-36 in the third and 
fourth quarter, but their early-game strug-
gles proved to be too much to overcome.
Coming up for Florida, it’ll look to 
bounce back on Sunday with a matchup 
against the Vanderbilt Commodores at 3 
p.m. Despite six losses in its first seven SEC games this season, Butler continues to express confidence in her team moving forward.
“We’ll bounce back and show the re-
silience of a champion,” she said. “It’s what I know our leaders will model for our younger players, and our younger players 
will follow their example.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida women's basketball falls to Vols
in the midst of his senior season at UF. At 9.2 points, 
4.8 assists and two steals per game, Hill has been a productive figure in Florida’s backcourt, providing ex-cellent ball movement and tenacious defense. I don’t want this to come across as if I’m glorifying Kasey Hill — because I’m not. If anything, his play throughout his entire career at Florida has actually been pretty disap-pointing. Regardless, he’s been excellent this year, and his production will be missed when he finally leaves. 
So, who does that leave as the Gators’ starting point 
guard for the 2017-18 season?
The answer right now is Chris Chiozza.But, while Chiozza had a solid nine-point outing 
against LSU, during which he went 3-for-6 on three-pointers, that doesn’t excuse the fact that this season has been extremely difficult for him. He’s averaging just 5.3 points per game 34.1-percent shooting from the field and 26-percent shooting from three. In addition, Chiozza has only played about 19.5 minutes per game this season — a career-low. That’s disheartening for someone already in his third year with the program.
To get back to Hester: He’s hardly played at all.His 17 minutes on Wednesday night are a career-
high. His previous career-high was 14 minutes against Charlotte — another blowout victory — on Dec. 17. Even including these rare games where he actually re-ceives significant playing time, Hester averages only 6.1 minutes per game.
He doesn’t score much — just 2.7 points per game.So, what does he do well?Shoot the rock.And his latest game is a testament to that.It’s a small sample size, but on the season, Hester’s 
8-for-13 from the three-point line (61.5 percent). 
I’m not ready to crown him the next Lee Humphrey 
or Jason Williams, but having a point guard who can efficiently shoot the basketball will be a welcomed change of pace for a team whose other two point guards are a combined 17-for-72 from beyond the arc.  
Ray Boone is a sports writer. His column appears 
on Fridays. Contact him at rboone@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter at @rboone1994.COLUMN,  from pg. 13
I have a lot of respect towards these peo-
ple, and it was a great experience.”
Florida enters the meet with a perfect 
3-0 record on the season, while Auburn is still searching for its first victory of 2017.
And it won’t be an easy task for the 
Tigers.
The Gators have never lost a Link to 
Pink match in the O’Dome.
“I’m very excited to be back home,” 
sophomore Alicia Boren said. “I think the Link to Pink meet is my definitely favorite 
because you get to compete for something 
so much bigger than yourself. And espe-cially just walking out of the Gator head with all of the survivors is just such an amazing experience to go through that 
with them.”
Boren, the SEC Gymnast of the Week, 
took home the all-around title in last Fri-
day’s meet at North Carolina, winning the 
first floor title of her career with a colle-
giate-best score of 9.95.
Her contribution has helped the Gators 
post at least a 197.10 team score in each of the first three meets, which is one of 
Florida’s best starts to a season in school 
history.
The Gators are hoping to continue 
that fast start in front a pink-clad crowd tonight.
“(I’m) looking forward to sharing 
an evening with the community  (of) Gainesville,” Florida coach Jenny Row-land said. “And being able to promote 
something more than just gymnastics.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 13Boren is the reigning SEC Gymnast of the W eekAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams attempts a shot during Florida's 
loss to T ennessee on Thursday. It was her second-career game scoring more than 30. 
WOMEN'S TENNISFLORIDA GATORS
(10-10, 1-6 SEC)
• Ronni Williams – 31 points, three rebounds
• Haley Lorenzen – 17 points, 11 
rebounds
 
TENNESSEE VOLUNTEERS
(13-7, 4-3 SEC)
• Diamond DeShields – 27 points, 
three steals
• Jaime Nared – 16 points, seven reboundsFRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
For the second weekend in a row, 
the UF men’s tennis team will play two 
matches.
The No. 11 Gators will host the ITA 
Kickoff tournament, facing off against UNC Wilmington tomorrow. The winning team will face the winner of No. 24 South Florida and LSU on Sunday, while the los-ing teams will square off in a consolation match.
A week ago, the Gators dominated play 
against overmatched opponents in Geor-gia Southern and Kennesaw State, not 
losing a single individual match in both 
competitions.
But this week, the Gators will face 
much tougher opponents that’re looking to make a statement. 
“I think that we’re establishing 
ourselves around the country as a team that other teams want to beat,” UF coach Bryan Shelton said. “So for us, it’s having 
that mentality that we’re going take their 
best shot.”And according to Shelton, the Gators 
will not only be targeted from a team standpoint but an individual standpoint, as well.
Five of Florida’s play-
ers are currently ranked in the ITA top 100, with sophomore Alfredo Per-
ez ranked the highest at No. 13.
“For a guy like Alfre-
do, he needs to under-stand… that he’s going 
to get everyone’s best 
shot,” Shelton said. “(The opponents) see 
him as an opportunity for them to move up in the rankings if they can beat him.”
And the same can be said for all of the 
other ranked UF players.
The only ranked player from any of the 
three teams Florida can face this weekend is USF sophomore Peter Bertran (No. 77), 
so opportunity looms large for those play-
ers who are unranked and want to change that. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org   UF to host ITA tournament
By Sean Denison
Sports Writer
In last week’s victory against No. 6 Auburn, 
the Gators men’s swimming and diving team — 
which won 10 out of 16 events — improved its 
dual-meet win streak to three.
Saturday, the men’s team will look to extend 
its streak to four when the Gators host SEC rival Tennessee at the O’Connell Center at 10 a.m.
“The threat they present is a real one,” asso-
ciate head coach Jeff Poppell said. “When you go up against the likes of a Tennessee, there’s 
no truer test.” 
The CSCAA Coaches poll has both Tennes-
see’s men’s and women’s swim teams ranked No. 20 and No. 15, respectively. The Gators , 
meanwhile, remain ranked No. 10 and No. 20. 
Coming off a loss to No. 5 Georgia last 
week, Tennessee’s men’s team will look to stop the Gators men’s momentum before the SEC 
Championship meet starts on Feb. 14. 
“The way we look at it,” Poppell said, “is 
that it’s just preparation for what we’re gonna see at the SEC meet and the NCAA meet.” 
Tennessee swimmers David Heron and Kyle 
DeCoursey won two events each last week and 
are having strong seasons for the Volunteers. It was the best dual meet of Heron’s career, as he won both the 1,000 free and 500 free. 
The Gators men’s team had strong perfor-
mances last week, as well. Caeleb Dressel and 
Maxime Rooney were each rewarded with their 
second SEC weekly honors on Tuesday.
Dressel — who placed 
ﬁ  rst in all four events he 
competed in — won Male 
Swimmer of the Week. 
“He was fantastic as 
usual,” associate head coach 
Anthony Nesty said. “The 
main thing about Caeleb is 
that he’s a competitor. He knew going into the Auburn 
meet that the athletes there were going to be ready.” 
Like the men, UF’s women’s team — which 
lost to Auburn, 103-197, last week — will also have a tough matchup this Saturday against 
Tennessee.
Poppell said the women’s team’s loss to Au-
burn was “a good indicator of where kids are at this point of the season.” 
@seandenison
sdenison@alligator.org   Tennessee poses a ‘threat’By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer
Sharrika Barnett was close to 
quitting track before coming to the 
United States.
Barnett, a sophomore sprinter 
at UF, said when she ran track in 
her home country of Jamaica, she 
wasn’t having a lot of success. 
“I was like, ‘maybe this is not 
for me,’” she said. 
She added that she was happy 
there, but all the hours she put in at her high school were too much. 
Then she moved to Orlando in 
2011, and something changed. 
While attending Oak Ridge High 
School, she started working with her coach to ﬁ  nd success 
— and 
she did. 
Barnett boasted many accom-
plishments early in her high school career, but as a senior in 2015, her 
success skyrocketed.
She won the 400-meter titles at 
the 2015 FHSAA Class 4A Outdoor 
Finals and the 2015 New Balance Nationals Outdoor 400-meters with a time of 52.25 
— a career best — 
in the latter. 
She ﬁ  nished her season with over 15 individual victories. She was also a part of three ﬁ  rst-place 
relay teams. 
Her winning senior season 
helped her earn the 2015 Orlando 
Sentinel Girls Track Athlete of the Year and an opportunity to run at the next level. 
“I had offers from pretty much 
everywhere,” she said, but she wanted to stay in the state because 
she didn’t want to go too far away 
from her mother. She said Flor-ida’s 400-meter program helped her decide to make the move to Gainesville.
Barnett made an immediate im-
pact at UF during her freshman sea-son. She ran on UF’s SEC Outdoor Championship-winning 4x400 re-
lay team, and she helped the same 
4x400 team to a ﬁ  fth-place ﬁ  nish at the NCAA Outdoor Championships and a seventh-place ﬁ  nish at the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
For her efforts, she was awarded 
All-SEC Outdoor First Team honors and was a USTFCCCA Indoor and Outdoor All-American in the 4x400 
relay.  
Barnett credits her newly found 
focus and dedication to the sport to her coaches and teammates at UF. 
As for the transition from Year 
1 to Year 2, she said she feels like 
there are steps she can take to im-prove in her craft, but it all starts mentally rather than physically. 
“I think I can improve more by 
just being positive, thinking posi-tive, and just doing what coach Holloway says,” Barnett said. 
Barnett did not take much time 
to ﬁ  nd herself at the top in her sophomore season. In her second meet this season at the Hokie In-vitational on Jan. 21, she won the women’s 400-meter ﬁ  nals and also placed ﬁ  rst alongside her relay team in the women’s 4x400 ﬁ  nal. Placements aren’t everything to 
her, though. Yes, Barnett said her 
conﬁ  dence builds when she comes 
in ﬁ  rst place 
— it helps her to know 
what she’s capable of. However, she’s more focused on her quick-ness and the quality of the race. 
“I just want my times to drop,” 
she said. “I’d rather be in a more competitive race than be in a slow heat.” 
The Florida track and ﬁ  eld team 
will compete at the Razorback Invi-tational this weekend. 
Barnett will be competing in 
women’s 400-meters and as a part of the 4x400 relay team. And she 
said her time is “OK” for now, but 
she’s looking to drop it to the low 52s or high 51s before the season is over.
That is just one of many goals 
she has for the rest of the season. 
“I just want to be healthy, hit 
my times that I want to hit,” said Barnett. “For the team, I want us to 
win championships, bond together 
as a team, and just be happy to run track.”
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.org After nearly quitting track in Jamaica, Barnett shines at UF
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Sophomore Sharrika Barnett sprints during the Hokie Invitational.
Dressel
MEN’S TENNIS SWIMMING AND DIVING
Perez
16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2017
Advertise in The Alligator’s
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Spotlight your property by advertising in the 
Student Living Guide, which publishes on the 
same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. 
advertising@alligator.org · 352-376-4482
 352-376-4482
Run Date
03.17.17
Deadline03.14.17Quarter page ads and larger 
receive free map spotting!