By Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The anxiety lives in the back of Nick John-
son’s mind.
The thoughts are mostly dormant, but 
anything can wake them up, like gradua-
tion — and his hurtle into the “real world” 
— looming closer.  
Last weekend, Johnson had a nervous 
meltdown after not turning in a class assign-
ment. The mistake triggered obsessions over imaginary scenarios: I’m going to fail the course; I’ll never graduate; I’ll have to be-come a Buddhist monk and meditate for the rest of my life. 
“I’m going to be an embarrassment for my 
family,” he thought. 
Johnson, a UF sustainability studies and 
geography senior, will graduate in 10 days. From April 28 to April 30, he’ll be one of 5,885 undergraduates leaving UF, with 2,443 master’s students and 420 doctoral students also graduating, wrote UF spokesperson Steve Orlando in an email. Throughout the days of graduation ceremonies, students will walk across a stage in rented robes — some ner-vous, some sad and some ready to follow a clear path ahead of them. 
But Johnson has no idea where his life will 
take him. 
Instead of encountering a fork in his future 
after college, the 22-year-old is driving down a highway with 20 exits in sight. He said he’s terriﬁ  ed he’ll make the wrong turn and wind up with regret. 
His ﬁ  rst two years at UF were difﬁ  cult, he 
said. Johnson was an exploratory major who thought he’d be a lawyer, but he landed on 
geography and sustainability studies after 
sophomore year. The rest of college was a struggle with attention deﬁ  cit disorder, and his ﬁ  nal year has been exceptionally nerve-racking.
He’s applied to and was rejected from 
two jobs for after graduation. He’s debated joining the Peace Corps, applying for gradu-ate school, moving to Arizona with his fam-
ily for a waitering or retail job or staying in 
Gainesville for a similar job. 
He might travel the world, he said. Either 
Italy or New Zealand or both. He’s thought about a corporate job, but he 
doesn’t think he’d ﬁ  t into the environment.
“There’s something dehumanizing about 
ofﬁ  ce jobs,” he said. “You just work as a 
drone, as a gear in a big machine.”
During Winter Break, he said he was of-
ﬁ  cially freaking out, so he sought his parents’ 
advice. They surprised him by comforting Johnson, saying his anxiety was normal, and he didn’t need to rush. 
So Johnson said he’s better now. Slightly. He will cross the stage April 29, and an 
administrator he won’t recognize will hand 
him his degree. Johnson said he’ll most likely 
think about the lunch he’ll eat after the cer-emony instead of any grand future. 
But he said he will reminisce about UF. He said he’ll crave to spend one more Sat-
urday playing saxophone with the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band. He’ll yearn to sing Queen’s “Don’t Stop Me Now” during kara-oke weekends in downtown Gainesville. He’ll 
long to hear Century Tower’s bells. 
He said he’ll think about getting a gym 
membership and ﬁ  nding a new doctor. Soon, ALPHA EPSILON PHI HAS
CONTROLLED THE SEAT 
FOR THE PAST 14 YEARS. 
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time in 14 years, the chair of 
Accent Speakers Bureau will not be a mem-
ber of the Alpha Epsilon Phi fraternity.
Shelby Buchanan, who listed member-
ship in Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority on her resume, will take over the Student Govern-ment agency after being approved by Stu-
dent Senate on Tuesday. 
Senators approved 46 others for executive 
SG positions, all nominated by Student Body 
President Smith Meyers, who ofﬁ  cially takes ofﬁ  ce today. Buchanan marks a leadership 
change for the organization, traditionally 
lead by AEPi members, according to Alliga-tor archives. 
Only one woman has been Accent chair 
since the organization’s establishment in 
1967, the Gainesville Sun reported in 2010, 
noting some years were missing from UF re-cords.
Meyers said only two students applied for 
the position: Buchanan and Sen. Jake Felder (Impact, District A). 
A website for the fundraiser Dance Mara-
thon at UF lists Felder as afﬁ  liated with AEPi. Felder declined to immediately answer ques-
tions regarding whether he applied for the 
position or is a member of the fraternity. Meyers said while Buchanan and Felder were both Accent vice chairs, Buchanan was 
the most qualiﬁ  ed.
“I also think she will bring a healthy new 
perspective to the organization,” Meyers 
said. 
Sen. Zachariah Chou (Independent, Inﬁ  n-
ity) was the only senator to object to execu-tive secretary and cabinet director nominees. He argued some students weren’t qualiﬁ  ed.
“I’m not going to tell you what to think, 
I’m just going to tell you what I see,” Chou told Senate members.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 143 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
Where do they go from here?
After their athletic careers conclude, how do 
UF athletes like Bridget Sloan ﬁ  nd work? 
Find out, pg. 18
New brewery opens up in Gainesville
Blackadder Brewing Company held its grand opening, pg. 10
UF students argue for virtual traﬃ   c stops
They created an app meant to make stops safer, pg. 9FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator After 14 years, 
woman to head Accent Seniors, this is goodbye 
SEE GRADUATION,  PAGE 4Soon, 8,748 students will graduate from UF
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
President Kent Fuchs appears on the JumboTron as he welcomes doctoral graduates, families and friends to the Fall Com-
mencement ceremony in the newly renovated Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Friday, Dec. 16, 2016. “I also think she will bring a healthy 
new perspective to the organization.”
Smith Meyers
Student Body President-electSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  59°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
De-Stress Study Fest
On Thursday, participate in the 
De-Stress Study Fest, presented by the Reitz Union. From 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. there will be a 
carnival-themed afternoon of 
games, Mechanical Meltdown, High Striker and activities such as free massages, stress-ball making, free snow cones and 
free popcorn. Starting April 13, 
the Reitz Union has select meet-ing rooms open until 1 a.m. just for your studying needs. For more details, visit union.ufl.edu/resources/destresstudyfest.
Florida Museum to host National 
Geographic photographer 
Joel Sartore on Friday
Join National Geographic pho-tographer Joel Sartore for a pre-sentation Friday from 8 p.m. to 
9 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/lecture or call 352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper. CORRECTION: 
In an article published April 18, 
titled "An ink-stained history," the Alligator reported UF profes-sor Matthew Gallman warned Caitlin Kantner about her mod-
ern LGBTQ+ labels of historical 
features, and mentioned his col-leagues being shunned for their attempts to identify and study queer figures. Kantner asserted these claims, which Gallman has since de-nied. NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 143
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
SSUPER
6757 W Newberry Road
gainesville, fl 32605
352-331-2040
By Aaron Albright and Justin Ford
Special to the Alligator
Intent on preventing crime and ensuring 
public safety, a Gainesville ordinance has 
made it nearly impossible for adult entertain-
ment businesses to open in the city.
Concerns of a sexually oriented business, 
such as adult entertainment clubs and stores, downtown led commissioners to pass the 
ordinance in the ’90s, said Gary Edinger, a 
Gainesville attorney who represents Florida 
adult entertainment businesses. 
At about the same time, the owners of 
Cafe Risque in Micanopy opened a second 
location in downtown Gainesville called 
Cafe Expresso, a club similar to Cafe Risque, 
across from the Alachua County administra-
tion building. 
But in 1994, commissioners enacted strict 
regulations on where adult businesses could exist.
Citing higher crime rates in other cities 
as the reason for the restrictions, the ordi-nance requires adult businesses to be at least 
1,000 feet from “any other sexually oriented 
business, place of religious assembly, pub-
lic school, private school, public park, youth association or residential area,” according to the ordinance.Overall, crime in Gainesville has de-
creased gradually, according to crime reports from 2005 to 2016, even as census data re-ports an increasing population. As of press 
time, Gainesville Police reported only one 
crime at an X-Mart Adult Supercenter since 
2011. Since October 2016, three crimes were 
reported by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-ﬁ  ce in the block adjacent to the adult store, according to CrimeReports.com. 
It’s a decision that has kept the city free 
of adult businesses, the nearest being X-Mart 
just outside city limits on Southwest 13th Street, Edinger said, primarily because there 
are no available sites for them under zoning.
Though Edinger said it’s been about 10 
years since he checked if any sites are avail-
able, as communities develop, the number 
of available sites tends to go down, not up.
“The chance of sites having opened up 
in Gainesville is exceptionally unlikely,” Ed-
inger said.
•   •   •
Gainesville’s ordinance isn’t uncommon.
In fact, nearly every city or county in the 
country has similar zoning laws regulating 
adult businesses.
For Cafe Risque, Edinger — who also 
serves as a trustee in the corporation but is 
not active in management — said the busi-ness was grandfathered into a 2004 revision of the Alachua County codes, exempting it 
from regulation under the county’s current adult business codes.
But it’s not an issue the county deals with 
often, said Mark Sexton, the communications and legislative affairs director of Alachua 
County. The last time the issue came up, he 
said, was when Cafe Risque was opening an 
adult video store outside of Waldo in 2007. 
However, the store was allowed to open, 
though it closed a short time later, he said.
He said since the county commissioners 
saw a need for the ordinance and passed it, 
there hasn’t been a movement to repeal or 
change it.
“We haven’t had businesses come to 
commission meetings or try to lobby com-missioners to change or alter this ordinance 
— ordinances tend to stay in place until somebody does that,” Sexton said. 
Edinger said these ordinances are usually 
based on belief, not scientiﬁ  c fact. 
He said there’s no evidence of adult busi-
nesses in the U.S. contributing to higher crime near them compared to similar non-
adult nightlife business.
“The crime rate around adult entertain-
ment establishments is no higher than any 
other sort of facility — comparable facility — and is usually signiﬁ  cantly lower,” he said.
One of the reasons, Edinger said, is that 
most adult entertainment businesses self-police more vigorously because they have to, knowing that they’re under more scrutiny 
from ofﬁ  cials. And the scrutiny does not end 
once cases reach the courtroom.
Despite bringing forth peer-reviewed, sci-
entiﬁ  c case studies in past lawsuits in Flor-
ida, Edinger said courts are more likely to 
listen to anecdotal evidence than fact. 
“When we challenge on these adverse 
secondary effects, we always, always lose,” 
Edinger said.
•   •   •
In light of the ordinance, some stores are 
trying to cater to customers while avoiding the label of a sexually explicit store. 
These businesses, called percentage 
stores, sell adult products or services, but the 
percentage of ﬂ  oor space and total store sales are below the 30-percent threshold for regu-
lation under the ordinance, Edinger said. 
X-Mart, an adult business regulated by the 
county, isn’t phased by the ordinances, said 
Sam, the manager of the south Gainesville 
store. He declined to give his last name.
“We’re here for the people from all walks 
of life,” Sam said. “People come if they want. It makes it an adventure.”  Strict regulations leave no space for adult stores in GainesvilleSome have concrete plans, 
others are still deciding
he won’t be able to play basketball at 
Southwest Recreation Center or visit the Counseling & Wellness Center. 
He said he plans to get a part-time 
job until he ﬁ  gures it out. 
“I’ll just enjoy life,” Johnson said. 
“Take it one day at a time.”
•   •   •
Kaitlyn Kett isn’t worried — she 
has a plan. 
The summer before coming to 
UF, the university’s Reserve Ofﬁ  cer Training Corps offered her a con-
tract. She never looked back. 
After graduation, Kett, 22, will 
go to Fort Lee, Virginia, for a four-
month basic training program to be-come a military ofﬁ  cer. After train-ing, she plans to return to Gainesville and enroll in a master’s program.
She’s only applied to UF for 
graduate school, but she is conﬁ  dent 
she’ll be accepted. 
In August 2014, Kett signed her 
contract with ROTC, a nationwide 
program to prepare college students for the U.S. military. She needed the scholarship money, but she stayed for the friendships and connections. 
She said waking up at 6 a.m. for 
physical training three times a week 
during college was worth it. 
“It’s kind of like another family 
for me,” she said. “The friendships 
and relationships that I’ve made within my past three years of being enlisted have deﬁ  nitely changed my life.”
Kett said she’s never strayed from 
her criminology major. Her minor has always been music performance 
— she plays the oboe. 
Her dream since she was 14 is to 
work for the FBI — speciﬁ  cally at an 
institution ﬁ  ghting against human trafﬁ  cking.
She’s not worried about her fu-
ture. She’s not afraid she’ll make wrong decisions. She’s excited to have secured a source of income — 
she’ll work as a supply chain man-
ager for a Jacksonville military one weekend every month.
She’s mostly ﬁ  nancially indepen-
dent from her parents (they pay her phone bill), so if she didn’t have a plan they would have been con-cerned. But she knows she can sus-tain herself.
Although she’s looking forward 
to graduation and her commission as a second lieutenant for complet-ing ROTC, she said she’s not ready to leave the UF community. 
“I know I can learn a lot more, 
and I want to learn a lot more,” Kett said.
No matter how different their 
plans after graduation are, both Kett and Johnson said they are certain their experience at UF was unfor-gettable. Kett regrets nothing, and Johnson’s regret is only over not dropping microeconomics. 
“I enjoyed pretty much every 
day,” Johnson said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org 4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
Tick tock
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve water
GRADUATION,  from pg.1
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
IN WITH THE NEWELL
Jack Famiglietti, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, and Ally Haines, a 21-year-old UF 
health education and behavior junior, study in Newell Hall on Tuesday morning. The newly renovated building has collaborative study spaces and games such as Connect Four for students to play.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Yareliz Mendez-Zamora found her home 
on the steps of La Casita, a building filled with 
Latin music and family.
When Kalimah Ujaama stepped into the In-
stitute of Black Culture, it felt like a homecom-
ing.
For Mendez-Zamora and Ujaama, along 
with other alumni and current students, having 
spaces dedicated to their identity was vital in a predominantly white school such as UF. 
Despite the buildings’ age, lack of accessibil-ity and mold, the old wooden houses on West 
University Avenue were places where they 
could feel safe. They mourned when the build-ings closed in January to be demolished and rebuilt, and they looked forward to the possi-bilities of bigger spaces and more opportunity.
But now, after seeing blueprints and meet-
ing with architects, several students, including Ujaama and UF alumna Mendez-Zamora, are concerned with the possibility that the two in-
stitutes will be merged into one building.  
A petition, titled “Save the Institute of Black 
Culture,” was created in April and has since 
been signed by more than 900 people. William Atkins, the executive director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, announced two days later that the project for both houses would be paused. 
“I think it’s definitely one of the top strate-
gies that helped to bring the project to a halt,” Ujaama, a black affairs ambassador, said of the petition. “I think it was definitely the petition, but it also probably has to do with behind-closed-doors politics.”
Ujaama was pleased to hear the project 
would be paused and thinks it’s because it would be a “bad look” for the university to con-tinue as current students and alumni protested.
Atkins said officials have looked into ex-
panding funding for the project, which is al-ready budgeted for $5.3 million, and student advisory committees and alumni advisory com-mittees will be put together to take a look at the project. He said there has already been a large interest in joining the committees, which will be formed by the MCDA staff.“I just think it’s important for us to make 
sure that we are gathering more voices, hear-ing from more voices and gathering more infor-mation from alumni, from the students, as we move forward with the project,” Atkins said.
Atkins said while he was a student at UF 
in 2009 he used resources at the IBC and La Casita. 
“It was definitely a great place for me to find 
community here at UF,” he said. 
Christopher Wilde, a former ambassador 
with La Casita, said he left the ambassador program when he saw the focus shift from La Casita to the Reitz Union spaces. He felt the direction of the department was shifting away from advocacy. 
“The main reason I was part of the depart-
ment was because of the house and the space it provided me, of comfort and empowerment,” 
he said, “and when I realized the house would 
be closed, I didn’t really want to work in the Reitz Union, because it’s not the same there.” 
Wilde said part of the reason he left was be-
cause of the lack of transparency when it comes to the construction of the building, and he said the meetings with the architects were not pub-licized. 
Wilde also felt information about the project 
was handed to them last minute. He said he would find things out through a friend.
“It wasn’t like we were being involved in 
the decisions, they were kind of telling us what was going to happen,” he said, “and as a stu-dent ambassador, you think that you’d have a voice in what was happening or at least be informed.”Though he’s happy the project has been 
paused, Wilde isn’t sure if there will be any difference. He thinks with the same adminis-tration in charge, the lack of transparency will continue. 
“It comes down to an underlying desire that 
administration has for the department to serve as mainly as a photo-op of diversity, instead of actual advocacy,” he said. “They don’t want students to have agency, because students with 
agency will do things that make the institution 
uncomfortable.”
Mendez-Zamora said she hopes current stu-
dents will ensure both spaces get to keep their history and heritage. She doesn’t want to see the two spaces merged into one because of the distinct history of La Casita and the IBC. When she first found out the buildings would go down, she was angry. She said the issues 
with the buildings, like mold, should have been 
taken care of before it got to the point of need-ing to demolish the buildings. 
“The houses have a lot of historical signifi-
cance,” Mendez-Zamora said.
Ujaama said that while the university’s fo-
cus on multiculturalism is good, merging the IBC with another space would decrease black identity at UF. 
“Having individual spaces for cultural 
groups on campus ensures that people from those cultural groups have a voice at the ta-ble,” she said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF students speak out on IBC, La Casita construction
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Will Atkins was chosen as 
the new executive director of Mul-ticultural and Diversity Affairs, he acknowledged work needed to be done.
Following the resignation of 
three directors and concerns from students about being respected in the space, Atkins said he was look-ing forward to meeting with stu-dents and helping them feel like they belong, according to Alligator archives. 
But less than a week after he was 
appointed, multiple ambassadors sent in their resignation.
Ambassadors exist to support 
MCDA through customer service and administrative support with programming and advocacy, ac-cording to the office’s website. Sev-eral ambassadors, including those who resigned, are paid through 
work study, while some are volun-
teers. 
The ambassadors from the Asian 
and Pacific Islander Affairs office gave nine reasons for their resigna-tion, according to a copy of an email obtained by the Alligator.
In the email, they mentioned 
a “toxic environment,” “the way 
professional staff treat students in a condescending and disrespectful 
manner” and “the supposed sup-port for students, but the support is truly absent.” They also said they “no longer believe that MCDA is a safe environment” for them to de-velop as professionals. 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email that “eight or nine” ambassadors resigned. 
One resigned ambassador, who 
asked to remain anonymous for her mental health, said it was upsetting to resign from a program she dedi-cated countless hours for years. 
“It’s just kind of sad to see, but 
I think a lot of it was for self-care,” she said. 
When asked for comment, oth-
er APIA ambassadors declined or could not be reached. 
Even after former APIA director 
Krystie Nguyen resigned before ac-cusations of mishandling her posi-tion and mistreating the ambassa-
dors, the former ambassador said 
students overworked themselves in an attempt to keep up with their planned events without the needed support from the remaining MCDA staff. 
She said the final straw for many 
of the ambassadors came when only one representative from APIA was 
appointed to the APIA Hall of Fame, 
when in the past she said there have been multiple appointments. 
“When we reached out and 
asked for what was going on, we got multiple answers from different people,” she said. “It just seemed really weird and like all of the deci-sions were made for us.”
They drafted one cohesive letter 
with their shared concerns. 
In an emailed reply to the resign-
ing ambassadors, obtained through a public records request, David Par-rott, UF’s vice president for student affairs, said he and UF President Kent Fuchs appreciated the care-fully outlined concerns. 
The former ambassador said the 
email sounded generic. 
“We are in the process of en-
hancing many facets of MCDA and the Ambassador program,” Parrott wrote in an email obtained by the Alligator. “Your feedback helps to inform us moving forward.”
  
•   •   •
Atkins said he looks forward to 
the future of the office. He said he’s met with current MCDA ambassa-dors to discuss how to reshape the roles of ambassador and has seen 
passion in the new director search 
committees.
“I want to hear from the stu-
dents,” Atkins said. “That is really going to inform how we move for-ward with MCDA and the ambassa-dor program. It would be wise for me to make sure that what we’re 
crafting meets the needs of the stu-
dents.”
Despite students saying they felt 
silenced in their resignation letters, Atkins said his policy has always been to listen to students.
Before Atkins was appointed ex-
ecutive director, he held the interim executive position for about six 
months after the former executive 
director, Lloren Foster, was fired. He said he began hearing concerns about the atmosphere within APIA when former director Nguyen re-signed in late February.
When she got the letters from 
student ambassadors, Mary Kay Carodine, the assistant vice presi-
dent of student affairs, said she ac-
cepted the resignation and read the recommendations. 
“I think their concerns that they 
outlined were heard, and in many ways they matched what MCDA was already working on,” Carodine said. 
She said they have already hired 
new MCDA ambassadors and are reshaping the training.
Though students in their resig-
nation letter said they didn’t know how much weight their voices had, Carodine said their concerns were heard. 
“I think students have been 
heard and given opportunities to 
share input in multiple venues,” 
Carodine said. 
Concern for the student ambas-
sadors motivated the former direc-tor of APIA from 2013 to 2016, Al-exander Cena, and others formerly involved with the office to send a letter to Fuchs, Parrott, Carodine and Atkins at the beginning of April. 
In his email to administrators, 
he asked questions about the next steps. Carodine replied with an out-line of some future plans and of-fered to go over the events related to Nguyen’s departure with Cena on the dates he said he would be in Gainesville. Carodine said they ex-tended the director search process 
to make sure they have the best 
possible pool of applicants. 
Cena said it’s important to know 
what the next steps for APIA are, especially for the students. He said when he spoke to some ambassa-dors before Spring Break, they were frustrated.
“A lot of them were just trying to 
figure out how to get the energy to move on, finish out the year,” Cena said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUnder new executive director, APIA office working to rebuildAlligator File Photo
Students walk past La Casita in this Alli-
gator file photo from 2007.
Black Thursday: Black UF students demonstrated on campus by occupying former UF President Stephen C. O’Connell’s office. Sixty-seven students were arrested or suspended. Later, a BSU rally was held where several students submitted withdrawals in protest. 1971The IBC is officially dedicated. FEB 11, 1972
1994La Casita: Student activists pushed to get the space for La Casita. The building was given to them unfurnished.
2003Vandalism: “No spic for president” was spray-painted on the walls of La Casita when a Hispanic student, Gil Sanchez, ran for Student Body president.Reitz: New office spaces, the BEC and La Salita, opened in the Reitz Union. FEB 2016
SPRING 2018The initial projection for when the new institutes would open. The new deadline is undetermined.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWe have the right 
to speak and the 
duty to listen 
We’re all just looking for the damn light switch
With graduation nearing, you might be feeling 
a bit stressed. 
Or maybe not. Maybe you’ve already land-
ed that dream job, are off to graduate school or you’ve got a perfectly mapped out five-year 
plan. Well, to that I say f--- you. Just kidding. That’s actually pretty awesome, and I’m genuinely happy for you, but for those of you — like myself — who feel like they’re on the verge of a nervous breakdown by just thinking of life after college, I’ve got some advice for you. 
It’s OK to be stumbling around in the dark. Hear me 
out.
It’s like when your Uber drops you off at home after 
a night of drinking, and you open the door and it’s pitch black inside. Drunk, you stumble in trying to turn on a light, but you can’t find it. You have a vague outline of your house — hint: in this analogy, your life is the house — so you stumble in the general direction of the switch.
Sometimes you find a switch, but it’s not the right 
one, and it turns on the porch light, and that’s pretty useless to you right now, or you somehow flip on the 
garbage disposal. The gurgling definitely freaks you 
out, and you can see the porch while you’re at it, so now you’re a bit more aware of your surroundings, and those switches weren’t a useless detour after all. Go figure.
Maybe you find a switch but someone’s hand is over 
it, and they beat you to it. Bummer, but hopefully you know this person in your metaphorical house. 
The point is, you’re still trying to find the light switch 
as you continue stumbling throughout your house de-spite your failed attempts and setbacks. You move on after your failures and onto new adventures — or in this case light switches.  
Maybe you trip over some shoes and fall down. 
You’ve got a legitimate reason for not being able to 
find the switch — you’ve fallen. It’s a job interview you 
bombed, mental health struggles or a disastrous love life. Whatever it is, you’ve hit rock bottom. 
We’ve all been there, and it’s not fun. For me, it was 
being diagnosed with dyslexia six months ago. Yeah, I tripped over a damn chair in the dark, and it sent me sprawling. A dyslexic reporter? The irony is not lost on me. 
But, like me, even when someone tells you why 
you can’t find the damn light switch, you still can’t see it. The room is spinning, you feel like you’re going to throw up, and you still can’t see a flippin’ thing. Are you going to quit and stay on the floor? No, because you’re better than that, and you’re so close to your bed.
So you pull yourself up, and you feel for the wall as 
you slide your arms frantically up and down. Finally, you find the right switch. Your world is illuminated and the feeling of accomplishment floods through you, 
and you catch a glimpse of yourself in the mirror. Sure 
you look like hell, but hey, you’re standing up, and you turned on the light by yourself.
It was a messy journey, but you’ve reached the des-
tination, and that’s pretty much what life is. Don’t beat yourself up if you can’t find your light switch. 
We are all stumbling around in the dark, and that’s 
OK. Take a shot, and enjoy the ride.
Ariana Figueroa is a UF journalism senior and for-
mer editor-in-chief at the Alligator.As the limbo of Summer semester comes ’round, I’m going to follow my predecessor in removing the opinions editor mask and speaking directly as my-self. The opinions and experiences expressed here will be my own, and not those of the Alligator edi-
torial board. I want to take the chance, as the end of the semester approaches and friends graduate, travel abroad, tackle internships and sit on their couches all summer, to reflect on the past semester.
I am the daughter of immigrants, both of whom come 
from countries with limited free speech. A few weeks ago, we ran an editorial about free speech, in which we used an example where a teenager was arrested for speaking out against the government in Singapore. This struck a chord 
with me. Singapore is where my mother is from and where 
I have many family members. My father, on the other hand, grew up in former communist Yugoslavia. Though media restrictions were pretty lax by Soviet standards, they were still pretty stringent by Western standards.
We all get worked up when we see opinions online and 
in print that we don’t agree with, so much so I think we forget the beauty in being able to express them in the first place. I can write “The President is a poop-head” in here, 
and no one’s going to arrest me — no secret police are going 
to come and get me.
Now, before you start sending me angry emails and Face-
book comments, before you start branding us worse than fake news, I want you to take a moment and realize you have the right and ability to do that. You have the right to smash that “angry” react on the inevitable Facebook post that this will turn into. You have the right to retweet this angrily. You have the right to send us letters to the editor. 
Take a moment to just appreciate that.
The reason I got this position was because I did just that. 
A column ran that I did not agree with. I sent a letter. I got 
a regular column. And here I am.
I have edited columns I do not personally agree with. 
Contrary to what a lot may think from glancing at the opinions section on any particular day, we actually have a diverse group of columnists covering a wide range of po-litical opinions. Sure, we have vocal liberals, but we also 
have conservative columnists. Most of them don’t even talk 
much about politics, and if they do touch political issues, they do it through their own, personal lens. They are all skilled writers, and I enjoy reading what they write — the ones my personal opinions align with, the ones that make me smile or tear up, and yes, of course, the ones my per-sonal thoughts don’t necessarily align with. Sometimes, I realize something I initially disagreed with makes sense. Sometimes, the things I disagree with cement my own opin-
ions further. Sometimes, I’ll read criticisms of my own argu-
ments that make fair and valid points. I work to rectify the flaws in my own writing. 
At the end of the day, everyone reading this, everyone 
writing these columns and these words, is the same — Greek, non-Greek, liberal, conservative. We have the right to voice our opinions, loudly and proudly. We also have the responsibility to listen, respect and admit that sometimes what we thought was wrong.Column
Before I go: a message from your editor-in-chief
My faded black Jimi Hendrix T-shirt was drenched in sweat as I walked across UF’s campus on a blister-ing August day. The heat was made worse by my attire: black top, long bottoms, heavy bag packed with scribbled notes, textbooks and a laptop.
It was 2015, and I was on assignment as a student jour-
nalist for the first time. My mission: hike from Library West 
to UF’s Entomology and Nematology Building, a roughly 
3-mile trip; interview a researcher about a pathogen common 
to stagnant waters; and find as many dogs as I could (the 
pathogen liked dogs). My notebook resembled a playbook. My haphazardly scrawled interview questions were ranked categorically by importance, with No. 1 being a must-ask and 
No. 20 being one for the road. I repeated my most pressing 
questions — Are the dogs going to be OK? — in my head over 
and over, my feet burning from walking. After about an hour, 
I made it, surprisingly on time. After notifying the front desk 
of my appointment, I ducked into the bathroom to change my 
shirt from the Hendrix tee to something more presentable. I 
think it was a blue button-up. I used paper towels to pat my-
self dry, fixed my hair and re-entered the lobby, awaiting my 
first-ever interviewee. I recorded the whole thing: roughly an 
hour of jargon, broken up by an assortment of hmms and 
I sees. I then scoured the campus for dogs. I found three. I wrote 900 words. It was powerful. It was a masterpiece. It 
was all mine. It ran the next day at 200 words.
It was nothing to call home about. But I did. My mom was 
gushing with joy. Well, I was. She just politely said “Wow” 
and “That’s fantastic” a couple of times, trying as hard as she could to slow me down. “I think I like this,” I said. 
Fast forward four semesters, roughly 257 articles, and 
dozens of panic attacks and downward spirals, I stand before you today, a soon-to-be graduating senior with eyes fixed on a career as a journalist. Nothing will ever compare to your first.
But somehow, I kept coming back. I became a staff writer, 
then a cops writer, then a metro editor and finally editor-in-chief. It all flew by.
Looking back, my tenure here seems shorter than that 
3-mile walk I made on my first assignment. I guess time flies when you’re trying not to get sued for libel. I didn’t get here alone. I must thank my editors, specifically Emily Cochrane, who molded me into a capable reporter through her signature trial by fire; my parents, a cardiologist and physical thera-pist, for encouraging me to pursue a career fewer and fewer kids want to pursue, one that evokes disdain in the minds of many Americans; and my colleagues at the Alligator over the 
past two years, who put up with my rants, flaws and pester-
ing every single night. Some may say it’s all been for not.
The Alligator is fake news. It’s a liberal rag. It’s a bias-
confirming waste of space, and ink and labor.
I may be biased, but I think they’re wrong. While our 
paper isn’t perfect, we try to be. It’s why we harp on every single mistake we make, why we work long hours poring over articles some may never want to read. Yes, we make mistakes. Some bigger than others. But we don’t ignore them. 
As I write this, my hands are clammy and my mouth dry. I 
won’t cry. If I do, you won’t see it. When that final paper hits the stands, and I leave my desk one final time, I’ll be walking away from the most important thing in my life. But it’s time. The paper is in good hands. This staff won’t stop, and the presses won’t either. In the morning, the lights will go back on, and a new day will begin. By then, I’ll be old news. And I’m OK with that. It’s high time for someone else to make that fateful trek across campus.
Martin Vassolo served as the Alligator’s editor-in-chief this 
semester.Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsThe '60s and '70s marked the height of 
utopian speculative ﬁ  ction, but it seems 
the optimism of works like “Star Trek” 
has only been fading since. What wor-
ries me about this decline of optimis-
tic science ﬁ  ction is how distant it makes us 
feel from utopia. We forget the technological 
dreams we have realized and begin to fear 
technological advancement.
Automation is an excellent example. We 
resist automation out of a concern for jobs. 
When cars drive themselves, what happens to 
truckers? The answer is the same as it has been 
since the Industrial Revolution: Where old 
jobs are eliminated, new ones are created. It’s 
healthy to empathize with workers who are laid off. What is not healthy is to subsequently 
take action that is harmful in the long term. History has shown the beneﬁ  ts of technologi-cal advancement to be greater than the costs.
The difference between the Industrial Revo-
lution and the information age is that where 
assembly-line manufacturing meant we need-
ed fewer skilled workers, advances in technol-ogy mean we need more. How can we meet 
the demand for skilled labor? Education must 
become more accessible. Sen. Bernie Sand-
ers popularized free tuition in his presidential 
campaign last year, especially among college-
age supporters, many of whom expect to 
graduate with record debt. This is not a radical 
idea. Tuition is already free in some Scandina-
vian countries. In an NPR interview, an analyst 
from the Organization for Economic Coopera-tion and Development attested that increased 
tax revenue from better-educated citizens more than covers the cost.
The goal of automation is ultimately a post-
scarcity society — one in which every person can afford necessities with little to no work. 
Economists are already discussing how to 
handle this unprecedented shift. The entire framework of capitalism depends on scarcity. 
Without it, we enter a world with which we 
have no experience.
Despite this looming unknown, Martin Lu-
ther King Jr., Napoleon Bonaparte, Thomas 
Paine and economist Milton Friedman have all 
advocated for a guaranteed minimum income, 
which would provide everyone with enough 
money to afford basic needs. Forms of guar-
anteed income have already been introduced in France, Alaska and parts of Canada. The 
system has been shown to improve health and education for low-income populations.
Some argue that guaranteed income will 
halt cultural progress, but as one economist from the University of Manitoba remarked 
in an interview, countless scientiﬁ  c break-
throughs have been made by inventors who did not work. The president of the venture cap-
ital ﬁ  rm Y Combinator adds that, “If (only) 10 
percent of the people go create new products 
and services and new wealth, that’s still a huge 
net win.” The world is not devoid of problems, 
but we are closer to utopia than ever. Now is 
not the time to let fear drive us back. It is time 
to push harder for clean energy, social prog-
ress, and an end to poverty and war.
David Billig is a UF linguistics masters student. 
His columns appeared on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Column
Signposts on path to utopia: technological advancements transform our world8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Alligator Advertisers Alligator Advertiser/s.endAttention
Display 352-376-4482
Classiﬁed 352-373-3463The Alligator will not be publishing from
Thursday, April 20th
to Monday, May 8th
The deadline for Tuesday, May 9th 
is Friday, May 5th by 4:00 p.m.
for Display & Classiﬁed Ads 
midtownjewelryandloans .comWe buy gold & silver 
CASH LOANS1315 NW 16th Ave
Gainesville, FL 32605
(352)-374-4653MidtownPawn 
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
Friends ofthe
Library
LibraryFriends ofthe
Library
Most prices 25¢ to $4
In 64 categories such as Mystery, Sci-Fi, comics, 
manga, non-ﬁction, education, cook books, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records, and more
Bring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlySat. April 22   9 am - 6 pm
Sun. April 23   noon - 6 pm
Mon. April 24   noon - 6 pm
Tues. April 25   noon - 6 pm
Wed. April 26   noon - 6 pm
T ue/s.end1/2
pric/e.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.end1/21/21/21/2
pric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.end
We/d.end ever/y.end We/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.end
thin/g.end10¢
ever/y.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end10¢10¢10¢10¢
FOLACLD.org
@FOLACLDBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
.com/FOLACLD@FOLACLD
430 N. Main St.By Mollee Jakubisin 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of UF students want 
to make routine trafﬁ  c stops safer 
with a smartphone app.
Virtual Trafﬁ  c Stop is an app 
created to help protect police of-ﬁ  cers and drivers during trafﬁ  c stops. The students said they cre-ated it to keep ofﬁ  cers and civilians 
safe. 
Jessica Jones, one of the four 
students who helped create the 
app, said it allows police to inter-act with civilians without leaving 
their car. The ofﬁ  cer will be able to 
ﬁ  nd a driver’s information by his or her license plate number once the drive uploads the information. Jones, a 27-year-old UF sixth-
year doctoral candidate in human-
centered computing, said the app 
will not store private or sensitive information. She compared the app to Instagram, where users can take 
and post pictures.
Police can communicate with 
drivers in a video conference, and 
if necessary, they can send an elec-tronic citation through the app. 
Jones said the app needs to go 
through pilot testing before it can be available for download. She said the app will be free for drivers, and anyone with a smartphone will be able to download it. 
Nicole Ferber, a 20-year-old UF 
nursing sophomore, said she pre-dicts positive and negative effects will come from the app. 
“Though the point is to help 
keep both parties safe,” Ferber said, “I can also see people becom-ing polarized about this.”  
She said she’s afraid it might 
perpetuate the idea that ofﬁ  cers and drivers should be scared of each other. 
Jones said the app is meant to 
give police another tool to use in the ﬁ  eld.
“I think if we could keep one 
person safe — one ofﬁ  cer dry, out of the rain — that would be a big enough impact for us,” she said.  
 With new app, UF students propose virtual traﬃ   c stops
By Bailey LeFever
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Part of Hull Road will be blocked 
off for at least three weeks because of the construction of a new hotel. 
Since last week, Hull Road from 
Southwest 37th Street to South-west 17th Avenue has been closed as workers build the new Aloft Hotel, which will be located near The Ridge at Gainesville, said Chip 
Skinner, the Regional Transit Sys-
tem marketing and communica-tions supervisor.
Skinner said he expects the road 
to be open again by early May un-less poor weather and potential sinkholes prolong the road closure. The hotel, which will have 200 to 300 rooms, is set to open in Octo-ber 2018.
A detour has been set up, and 
one bus stop near The Ridge has been blocked off, though residents can still use other route 20 bus stops nearby, he said. 
Michaela Pattison, a UF fam-
ily, youth and community sciences sophomore, said the construction near her apartment at The Ridge hasn’t been noticeable. 
While the 19-year-old said she 
rides to UF on her scooter most days, both of her roommates rely on RTS buses to get to class.
“I know from when I’ve taken 
the buses that they run pretty regu-larly, and for the most part they’re 
pretty reliable,” Pattison said. 
Although the hotel will be 
close to Southwest 34th Street and 
Southwest 20th Avenue, Skinner said he doesn’t expect there to be an impact on trafﬁ  c.
“Being in such close proximity 
to the University of Florida, I’m sure it will be popular,” Skinner said. “I’m sure for different events going on, and I’m sure every room will be booked for football season.”  Hull Road partly closed 
during construction 
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
THE FINALS COUNTDOWN
Tyler Marquez, a 22-year-old UF business management senior who will be graduating in December, 
relaxes in a hammock while studying for his operations management exam. “It’s all about practice, ” he said of the test.
They say it would make stops safer10   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In Chris Hart’s brewery, the televisions 
are only turned on when someone asks to 
watch something. 
“We’re not a sports bar,” said Hart, the 
owner of Blackadder Brewing Company. “It’s a place for family, community and to have a good time.”
After opening four months ago, the 
brewery, located at 618 NW 60th St., cel-
ebrated its grand opening earlier this week 
with the release of a signature craft beer, “It Takes a Village.” The beer is the culmination of a col-
laboration with representatives from First Magnitude Brewing Company, Alligator Brewing and Swamp Head Brewery, and it’s available at all the breweries.
“Every (brewery) in town has their own 
personality,” said Hart, 47, adding that he and his staff feel at home in the local brew-ery community. “We’re small and cozy.”
Hart, who has lived in Gainesville since 
1990, said he and his wife, Patricia “Sissy” Hart, got the idea for opening the pub from their trips to Great Britain, Ireland and Ger-
many.
“No matter what, there’s always those old, nice comfortable pubs out there,” he 
said. “We were always impressed with that and wanted to bring it here.”
For Josh Halford, the atmosphere is why 
Blackadder is a great place to unwind after work.
Halford, who works next door at McAli-
ster’s Deli, said he’s been going to the brewery two to three times a week after work, often with a coworker since it ﬁ  rst opened.
“It’s not like a normal bar,” the 26-year-
old Gainesville resident said. “It’s a lot 
more laid back.”  Local brewery celebrates grand opening with new beer
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville residents have a 
new option for Sunday brunch. 
Keke’s Breakfast Cafe, a new 
diner serving breakfast and lunch, 
is now open at 4062 Plaza Blvd. The brunch restaurant serves handmade dishes with fresh ingre-dients delivered daily, according to its website.
The restaurant’s breakfast 
menu offers 11 different ﬂ  avors of wafﬂ  es and eight ﬂ  avors of pan-cakes. French toast, omelettes and home fries are also featured on the list of dishes. Prices range from $5 to $13. 
The restaurant is open from 
7 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. seven days a week. Breakfast and lunch are available during all business hours.
Keke’s owner declined to com-ment for this story, citing corpo-rate policies. 
Megan Sandberg went to Keke’s 
with her mom in early April. She ordered scrambled eggs, a pecan pancake and a bowl of fruit, she said. She plans to go back and try the wafﬂ  es on her next visit. “I had gone to the one that’s in 
Orlando, and I really liked it, so I was excited when one opened up here,” the 22-year-old UF health science senior said. “The pancake was ginormous.” 
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org 
 Butler Plaza breakfast cafe oﬀ  ers 11 ﬂ  avors of waﬄ   esBLACKADDER’S TAP BEERS:  
• It T akes a Village$6 for 16 ounces
• Date Night$8 for 10 ounces
• The Jerkmaker$5 for 10 ounces
• Hildegard of Bingen$8 for 10 ounces
• Lord Flashheart’s Golden Ale $6 for 16 ounces
• Riders of the Lost Oat $7 for 10 ouncesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
West examines a patient, who complains of pain in the mouth after having his teeth 
removed, at an open wound clinic in Grace Marketplace.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Cindy Rosebush, a registered nurse, treats the feet of a patient. This was the ﬁ  rst day she was able to volunteer after having open-heart surgery about a year ago.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Dr. Fred West and Cindy Rosebush look for medical supplies at an open-wound clinic in Grace Marketplace.By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Every Monday, an 82-year-old UF 
alumnus and retired epidemiologist 
sets up a wound care clinic to serve the homeless who live in Grace Mar-ketplace or the neighboring Dignity 
Village, a sprawling city of tents in 
east Gainesville.
Dr. Fred West, an elder at 
Gainesville Seventh-day Adventist Church, mends the cuts, infected bug bites and black eyes that come through his makeshift clinic. Some-times, though, those who live in Dig-nity Village require more medical at-
tention than West’s stack of donated 
medical supplies or his four-person volunteer staff can provide.
West said in the nearly three 
years he’s been volunteering at Grace Marketplace, he’s seen many undiagnosed cases of diabetes, heart disease and hypertension. 
In many instances, West has per-
sonally driven residents of Dignity Village to other hospitals or clinics and sits in the waiting room until 
they’ve received proper care.
“I think it’s important that we 
understand and see that there are 
people out there that need help, and aren’t — for any number of reasons — able to help themselves,” he said. Doctor helps those at Grace 
Marketplace, Dignity Village
“I think it’s important that we 
understand and see that there 
are people out there that need 
help ...”
Dr. Fred West
Gainesville Seventh-day 
Adventist Church elderWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017  ALLIGATOR   13 12   ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
1. Academy for Five Elements 
 Acupuncture, Pg. 21  
2. Anatomic Body Arts , Pg. 7  
3. Archer Beauty , Pg. 2  
4. Avian Addiction , Pg. 21  
5. Battery Land , Pg. 11  
6. Best Jewelry & Loan , Pg. 3  
7 . Compassionate Care Clinics of America , Pg.  2
8. Computer Networks Experts , Pg. 21  9. Cyclops Cinema , Pg. 11   
10. Daily Green , Pg. 4  
11. Do-Lish , Pg.  7
12. Downtown Barber , Pg. 21  
13. Dragon Rises, Pg. 9  
14. Ethnic Dance Studio , Pg. 21  
15. Fades & Fro’s , Pg. 9  
16. FDLS , Pg. 4  
17. Flaming Subs , Pg. 9  18. Friends of the Library , Pg. 9   
19. Gator CrossFit , Pg. 19  
20. GNC , Pg. 21  
21. GT Motorcars , Pg. 21  
22. Hippodrome , Pg. 17   
23. Hurricane alternator & Starter , Pg. 11  
24. Indigo’s Homemade , Pg.  11
25. Liquid Ginger , Pg. 4   
26. Lloyd Clarke Sports , Pg. 4, 11, 21 27 . Maureen & Co Salon , Pg. 2  
28. McKnight Allstate , Pg. 3  
29. Midtown Jewelry & Loans , Pg. 9  
30. Sacred Skin Studios , Pg. 2  
31. SIMED , Pg. 19  
32. Social at Midtown , Pg.  
33. Super Optical Express , Pg. 3  
34. UF Florida Museum of Natural History , Pg. 3   
35. Urban Thread (2 Locations) , Pg. 2  12
345
6
78
9
1011
1213
141516
17
18
202133
32
3127
3419
22
2324
262928
25
Local 
Living 
Guide35
353014   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
By Lizzie Vasquez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For one day only, Gainesville 
residents will get a chance to sa-
vor three-dozen different ﬂ  avors 
of chocolate ice cream.
Sweet Dreams, a local ice 
cream shop, will host its popular Chocolate Night on Sunday, a day where owner Michael Manfredi of-
fers only chocolate ﬂ  avors. From 1 
p.m. to 10 p.m., the shop, located at 3437 W. University Ave., will offer scoops of 36 different ﬂ  avors 
of chocolate. 
“This is kind of a Gainesville in-
stitution,” said Manfredi, who has hosted the event twice a year since 2005. “Not just Sweet Dreams, 
but coming to Chocolate Night. It 
seems like this has become part of the Gainesville experience.”
He said that as of now, the list 
of 36 ﬂ  avors is not available — he won’t share them until the night before or the morning of. Nicole Smyrock, a UF nursing 
sophomore, said she plans to at-
tend the chocolate night for the 
second consecutive year. Last year, she only got four ﬂ  avors but is planning to get more this year. 
“Because I had a really good 
experience last year, this year I’m going with seven more people, so we can buy all the ﬂ  avors and split it,” the 20-year-old said. 
She said while she knows that 
hundreds are expected to form 
long lines all day, it’s worth the 
wait. 
“I’m most excited to try all the 
new ﬂ  avors they will come up 
with this year,” she said. Chocolate Night to oﬀ  er 36 ﬂ  avors of chocolate  ice cream
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
In the year that Susan Webster 
served as UF’s Student Body presi-
dent, she said she made it her goal 
to work on all 42 points of Impact 
Party’s platform.
“There’s nothing that I didn’t at-
tempt to put into the works during 
my time,” she said. “This is my con-
tract with the Student Body.” 
Webster and former Student 
Body Vice President Brendon “BJ” 
Jonassaint and former Student Body Treasurer Kishan Patel ran against Access Party’s executive ticket in Spring 2016.
Webster’s term ended Tuesday, 
and Smith Meyers, also from Impact, takes ofﬁ  ce today. 
Online voting was also passed 
during the Spring 2016 election, but it was overturned. After Webster appointed a chief justice and four associate justices, the court met in between Summer semesters and overturned online voting, along with three other amendments.  
During Webster’s term, she said 
her administration decided to work on Impact platforms including the one she ran on. She said her admin-istration completed the Fall 2015 
platform during her term and ﬁ  n-
ished half of the Fall 2016 platform. As for her Spring 2016 platform, all but two goals have been completed. 
“We did what we were elected 
to do, and ultimately that’s what the students want to see,” she said.
As the executive ticket reﬂ  ects 
on their term, Jonassaint said he has 
some advice for the incoming team.
“Make it about the students, 
don’t make it about Student Govern-
ment,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  The Associated Press
ERIE, Pa. (AP) — The man who 
randomly gunned down a Cleve-
land retiree and posted a video of the crime on Facebook killed him-self Tuesday during a police chase 
in Pennsylvania that began when 
a McDonald’s drive-thru attendant recognized him.
It marked a violent end to the 
nearly 48-hour multistate manhunt for Steve Stephens, whose case brought another round of criticism down on Facebook over how re-sponsibly it polices objectionable 
material posted by users.
Acting on a tip from the McDon-
ald’s, state troopers spotted Stephens 
leaving the restaurant in Erie and went after him, bumping his car to try to get it to stop, authorities said. He shot himself in the head after the car spun and came to a stop, police said.“This started with one tragedy 
and ended with another person tak-ing their own life,” said Cleveland Police Chief Calvin Williams. “We would have liked to have brought Steve in peacefully and really talked to him about why this happened.”
Stephens, a 37-year-old job coun-
selor who worked with young peo-
ple, was wanted on murder charges 
in the killing of Robert Godwin Sr., 74, a former foundry worker and fa-ther of 10 who was picking up alu-minum cans Sunday when he was shot.
The chilling video was on Face-
book for three hours before it was taken down. It was just the latest in-
stance of crime footage being shared 
on social media. 
At a Silicon Valley conference 
Tuesday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuck-erberg brieﬂ  y addressed the Cleve-land case, saying Facebook has “a lot of work to do.” Webster reﬂ  ects on presi dency Facebook killer 
takes his own life          ACCOMPLISHMENTS
•  Re-established mentorship 
program for students of color, Pledging to Achieve Academic Competence Together, for incoming freshman Fall 2017
• Allocated $350,000 from the 
Capital Improvement Trust 
Fund for meeting spaces for 
the National Pan-Hellenic 
Council & Multicultural Greek 
Council
• Allocated $3 million from the 
Capital Improvement Trust 
Fund to the Institute of Black 
Culture and La Casita 
• Filled vacancies at the 
Counseling & Wellness Center
• Lobbied to Florida legislature to increase state universities’ 
funding for mental health 
professionals
• Introduced breakfast at Chick-
ﬁ  l-A on campus starting at the 
Hub location in Fall 2017 STUDENT GOVERNMENTBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2BR/2.5BA Furnished Townhouse for Rent 
Starting August 11 year lease, $950/mo. plus utilities. Off street parking. Small pet OK.Call Ben at 305-982-7218     4-19-17-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-25 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      5-9-17-16-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida 
room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-
vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, 
hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/
month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    
4-18-17-7-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
ENCLAVE APARTMENTS
1/1 in 2/2, female. May to August.$540/mo - DISCOUNTED from $640/moCall 352-317-4164         5-9-17-4-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/
PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift 
to a recovering brain-damaged woman who 
takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 
rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-
17-17-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
I SELL AVONSKIN-SO-SOFT
Call 601-493-3285                 4-19-3-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!
Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray.Odorless, Long Lasting.Available: Hardware Stores,The Home Depot, homedepot.com.Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!    4-19-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edSunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    5-18-17-16-14
The Village will be holding a Career Fair
April 26th (2:00pm - 4:00pm).
The Career Fair is open to the community.
Hiring Managers will be on-site interviewing. 
The Village at Gainesville is located at 8000 
NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL 32606
(security guards will direct visitors on campus). 
Apply online at:
www.thevillageonline.com/careers
Hiring Part-time and Full-time for:
Nurses (RN & LPN)
Assisted Living CNAs
Companions
Servers
Kitchen Porters
Cooks
Security Guards
Transportation Drivers
Activities Coordinators
4-19-17-3-14Need native Italian speaker.
In person conversational lesson.
1 to 2 hours per week. Schedule flexible. 
Reply to JLLSuzy@yahoo.com    5-16-17-
4-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-1516   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
1. THEATER: What was the name 
of the Wicked Witch of the West in the 
play “Wicked”?
2. ANATOMY: Where in the human 
body is the scapula located?
3. GEOGRAPHY: How many U.S. 
states border Wyoming?
4. LANGUAGE: What is a solidus?5. FOOD & DRINK: Mr. Pibb was 
created to compete with what simi-lar-tasting soft drink?
6. ENTERTAINMENT: What are the 
stage names of the Marx brothers?
7. ART: Chartreuse is a combination 
of which two colors?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the ornamental shaping of plants called?
9. HISTORY: What is the oldest col-
lege at Cambridge University?
10. U.S. CITIES: What U.S. city 
once was a Spanish settlement called 
Yerba Buena?
Answers
1. Elphaba
2. Shoulder3. Six (Montana, South Dakota, 
Nebraska, Colorado, Utah and Idaho)
4. A forward slash or stroke5. Dr. Pepper6. Chico, Harpo, Groucho, Gummo 
and Zeppo
7. Green and yellow8. Topiary
9. Peterhouse
10. San Francisco
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 17, 2017 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedLive Longer.
Drive Sober.FRESH CUSTOM APPAREL
T-shirts, Hats & Uniforms.Screen
printing, Embroidery & Sublimation
FREE Graphic Design & Shipping on
eligible orders.Call, Text or Email for
same day Quote.786-514-6298
joe.plaza@freshprintsmiami.com
5-18-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL con-nection.     4-19-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.NOTICE
OF PROPOSED REVISIONS
TO THE
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT PLAN
OF THE
METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
ORGANIZATION
FOR THE
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED AREA
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area will consider revisions to its Public 
Involvement Plan at its Monday, June 5, 2017 
meeting at 5:00 p.m. in the Jack Durrance 
Auditorium, Alachua County Administration 
Building, 12 SE 1st Street, Gainesville, 
Florida. The Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area is inviting interested persons 
to review and comment on these proposed 
revisions at this meeting.
The Public Involvement Plan document may 
be viewed at the following website (www.
ncfrpc.org/mtpo); Alachua County Library 
District Branches within the Gainesville 
Metropolitan Area; and at its staff office, 2009 
NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653.  
For further information, call 352.955.2200.    
4-19-1-20DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00
Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.
Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.
Call Now 1-800- 224-0305    4-19-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17
ACROSS
1 Overzealous
6 Emotional states
11 Big name in
home security
14 Work together
15 Golfer’s birdie,
often
16 “I’ve seen better”17 *Droopy-eared
dog
19 King Kong, e.g.20 Home buyer’s
choice
21 Annoyed reply to
“Are you awake?”
23 Hog fare25 *Testimony
preceder
28 Pan flying
30 Present mo.31 Bone, to Botticelli
32 Quick snooze
34 “Darn it!”
37 Pop singer
Grande’s
fragrance
38 *Garage
alternative
40 Price of
admission
43 The Euphrates
flows through it
44 Like King Kong
46 Shepherd’s
dinner, perhaps
49 Coffee maker
unit
51 Impudent52 *Common cause
of food poisoning
56 Perlman of “The
Mindy Project”
57 Racer’s
swimwear brand
58 __ setter
60 Country that won
the mostOlympics medalsin Rio
61 *Garment with a
fitted waist andflared bottom
66 Something to
chew
67 Ship with liquid
cargo
68 Security
breaches
69 Officejet printers
70 Polishing targets71 Pearl Jam
frontman Vedder
DOWN
1 Barbecue spice
mixture2 Santa __
Mountains
3 Twice-baked
cookies
4 “Come right on
in!”
5 Celebrity chef
Paula
6 Highest peak in
Ore.
7 “Well, looky
here!”
8 Christian sch. in
Tulsa
9 Vest fabric
10 It often has four
doors
11 Some kitchen
appliances
12 Bus stations
13 “Tommy” band18 Pts. by Vikings22 Irrelevant
23 Critter rescue org.
24 Big name in
business jets
26 Electric guitar
pioneer
27 Cave feedback29 Like “Fifty
Shades of Grey”
33 Golfer’s four,
often
35 Hosp. areas36 Handle on many
elevators39 Bento box staple
40 Ingredient in
some Asian soup,or, literally, whateach answer to astarred clue has
41 Facility
42 “Only Time”
songwriter
43 A handful
45 Color named for
a planet
46 In itself47 Devours eagerly48 Responds in court
50 Tool box item
53 Has too much of,
briefly
54 Finnish tech giant55 Flight stat.59 On the sidelines62 Legendary fighter
63 Business card no.
64 Hit the slopes65 Dallas-to-
Houston dir.
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/19/1704/19/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 19, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
MAKE DENMARK GREAT AGAIN.
BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
DIRECTED BY LAUREN WARHOL CALDWELL
NOW ON STAGE!
VISIT THEHIPP.ORG FOR SHOWTIMES
CALL 352.375.4 477 OR VISIT THEHIPP.ORG
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Frank Rubio and the Florida baseball team picked up a 2-1 win over North Florida on Tuesday night. For a full recap, head over to alligator.org/sports.Basketball transfer verbally commits to UF
Egor Koulechov, a 6-foot-5 sharpshooting guard, told Scout.com that he will 
transfer to Florida to play basketball. Last season at Rice, he averaged 18.2 points per game and shot 47.4 percent from three-point range. By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Bridget Sloan called it her slump period. 
She spent the entire month of May think-
ing. What are my goals? What should I do 
next? What do I want from life?
She was 23, when most young adults are 
just beginning to chase their lifelong dreams. 
But Sloan had already chased hers.At 16, she won a silver medal at the 2008 
Beijing Olympics. At Florida, she became a six-
time NCAA Champion, a 31-time All-American 
and the most decorated gymnast in UF history.
But after she graduated last April, she was 
no longer Bridget Sloan the star gymnast, the world-champion athlete, the high-ﬂ  ying record-breaker with the sparkling blue and white leotard.
She was just Bridget Sloan: the job-seeking 
adult. 
Hire me, please.“As athletes, we dedicate so much time 
to our sport without even thinking about it,” Sloan said. “And then at the end, it’s kind of like, ‘Oh shoot. My sport is over.’ 
“I’m not exactly sure what I’m supposed 
to do now.”
•   •   •
The interview was over, but the 
microphone was still turned on. 
The SEC Network producer was 
listening.
Sloan was still an athlete at 
Florida. And each weekend, in front of 10,000 fans, she twist-ed and contorted her body to pop music in the O’Connell Center, the anchor of a star-studded, three-time NCAA champion gymnastics team.
But Sloan knew, sitting in 
that chair after her interview, 
that gymnastics wouldn’t last 
much longer. Eventually, she would need a job.
“If anybody out there is listen-
ing,” Sloan said into the mic, “I want to work at the SEC Net-work. This is my dream.”
The producer heard her, 
and Sloan was hired in 
January.
She ﬁ  t all the SEC 
Network’s require-
ments. She was one of the best gymnasts in the country and had more gymnastics experience than almost anyone in the world. She liked to 
talk, often speaking in 
long paragraphs when a sentence or two would sufﬁ  ce. She was a hard worker, usually taking 16 credit hours per semes-ter in college, four more than was required by the NCAA.
And, as the SEC Network soon found out, 
she could improvise.
She worked her ﬁ  rst live broadcast dur-
ing a Missouri-Auburn gymnastics meet on 
March 3 with Laura Rutledge, an ESPN and 
SEC Network analyst. But technical difﬁ  culties muddled the shoot, and the two women didn’t get a chance to rehearse. Rutledge always re-hearsed.
“OK, there’s a chance that she freezes up,” 
Rutledge remembers thinking. “I’m gonna have to ﬁ  gure out how to carry this.”
Then they went live, and something 
changed. Sloan was poised and conﬁ  dent. She explained each of the gymnasts’ routines, what they had erred on and what they were doing correctly, pausing to allow for Rut-ledge’s input. 
She was relaxed speaking about what she 
knew better than anything else — gymnastics. 
Rutledge was relieved. “This person competed in the Olympics 
and succeeded,” Rutledge said. “She’s 
competed on the biggest stage, on a 
4-inch wide balance beam, 4 feet 
in the air by yourself. And your team’s fate is on your shoulders.
“Pressure is not really a factor 
for her.”
•   •   •
Before Florida, she was 
alone.
For thousands of hours, 
Sloan was in the gym, swinging 
from bars, ﬂ  ipping across mats 
and twisting on balance beams. 
Training for the Olympics 
meant at least ﬁ  ve hours in the 
gym every day. Even after the 
Olympics, after high school 
graduation, she took an entire 
year off just to train. It was 
hard to imagine life outside 
the gym. 
Then she went to Flori-
da. And while the 20 hours 
a week spent training for 
UF was less than what she had been through, she was still busy. 
For the ﬁ  rst time, she 
was competing not just for 
herself, but for a team. 
Gymnastics is often a lone-
ly and individualized sport, 
Sloan said, and as a teenager at 
Sharp’s Gymnastics Academy in 
Indiana, training from 2:30 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. every day for months 
on end, it was usually just her, the 
trainer and a balance beam.
But not at Florida. Her team-
mates were her friends. And this was 
her school.
“I did everything in my power to 
make sure Florida was on top,” Sloan Olympian chased broadcasting 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer 
Do you hear it? The ticking? She hears it. 
She’s been hearing it for as long as she can re-member, and now it’s grown from a little pinch to a searing pain she can’t hide if she tries. She hears it when she thinks about her future — a 
future that, until recently, saw her heading to 
the WNBA. Well, no more. No more basketball for junior Brooke Copeland. Not when people are suffering, and not while she can do some-
thing about it in her limited time on earth. 
On Monday afternoon, she walked into 
her ﬁ  nal interview as a member of the Florida 
women’s basketball team. It wasn’t what she once imagined it’d be. There was no discuss-ing where the former 10th-best high school post player in the country was going to play after graduation. There was hardly any men-tion of her UF basketball career. Instead, she talked about getting engaged. She hugged and waved and showed off her diamond to friends 
passing by. She explained why she was giv-
ing up basketball — the game she’s played since childhood — to try and make a dif-ference in the world. 
There were always signs that this 
is how her story at Florida would end. 
That the ticking had been going on for 
some time. Back in high school, for ex-ample, the star recruit was asked what she wanted to do with her life. 
“Be a missionary to Israel,” 
she answered. 
Then there was AnnaRose 
Van Sciver, a troubled 10-year-old who Brooke 
befriended at UF. She 
made it harder for Brooke to justify basketball, and when a story came out about their relationship in 2015, Brooke of-
fered a hint at her future.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult,” she 
said of continuing to play bas-
ketball before referring back to AnnaRose. “My heart is in that.”
There was also Brooke’s 
trip to Thailand in the summer of 2016, where she worked to help isolated communities by teaching kids and building a water con-tainer out of plastic bottles and concrete. There, the ticking be-came thunderous. 
“There is so much need 
over there, and I’m here,” she said when she got back. “And I don’t wanna be here.”
The ticking became deaf-
ening around spring break. Around when UF women’s bas-ketball coach Amanda Butler was ﬁ  red. That’s when Brooke went to Butler’s house one day to baby sit her adopted son, Nehemiah, and told her about what had been building for sev-eral years. About the infernal ticking. 
“I don’t wanna play basketball anymore,” 
Brooke told Butler, “and I feel like I’m at peace 
with it.”
Butler tried to convince her otherwise. 
“I don’t want your basketball career to end 
like this,” Butler said. But she accepted it. 
Since then, the ticking hasn’t stopped. It’s 
something Brooke said is never going to stop. It’s what pushes her to be the person everyone can always turn to, the person she is. It’s the reason — along with the grace of God — she’s 
overcome her own demons and downfalls. It’s 
the reason she’s giving up on basketball. 
“One of my biggest fears in life is settling,” 
she said. “This life is so ﬁ  nite. We have such a ﬁ  nite amount of time to impact. But we have such a powerful opportunity for impact and for inﬂ  uence and to change people’s lives for the better… 
“I just think that’s so freaking powerful. 
And for us to not use that impact and use 
that inﬂ  uence and that power is just a dis-
service to the world.”
•   •   •
Brooke wept. Lying in a hammock in Wang Psra — a remote village in Thailand — 
last summer, the fact that she’d 
be leaving soon was already 
chewing at her. The realization 
that the village’s children like-ly never would leave forced 
her to tears. 
“I just broke down and 
was just bawling crying,” 
she said.
Jakkajun, an 8-year-
old Thai girl who Brooke 
called “June,” was sleep-
ing in her lap when she 
was woken up by Brooke’s 
despair. 
June was a crier herself, as 
one might expect of any 8-year-
old. Throughout the trip, when 
she had fallen or scraped 
something or been afraid, 
Brooke had asked her — de-
spite the fact that June spoke 
no English — “You OK?” 
On the eve of Brooke’s 
departure, after wiping the 
streams of tears ﬂ  owing 
down her face, June re-
turned the favor.
“You OK?” she asked.
“I just started 
crying even 
more,” Brooke 
said.
She befriend-
ed other girls on  Copeland giving up basketball
to our sport without even thinking about it,” 
Sloan said. “And then at the end, it’s kind of 
like, ‘Oh shoot. My sport is over.’ 
“I’m not exactly sure what I’m supposed 
•   •   •
The interview was over, but the 
microphone was still turned on. 
The SEC Network producer was 
Sloan was still an athlete at 
Florida. And each weekend, in 
front of 10,000 fans, she twist-
ed and contorted her body to 
pop music in the O’Connell 
Center, the anchor of a star-
studded, three-time NCAA 
champion gymnastics team.
But Sloan knew, sitting in 
that chair after her interview, 
that gymnastics wouldn’t last 
much longer. Eventually, she 
“If anybody out there is listen-
ing,” Sloan said into the mic, “I 
want to work at the SEC Net-
work. This is my dream.”
The producer heard her, 
and Sloan was hired in 
She ﬁ  t all the SEC 
gymnastics experience 
than almost anyone in 
the world. She liked to 
talk, often speaking in 
long paragraphs when a 
sentence or two would 
sufﬁ  ce. She was a hard 
worker, usually taking 16 
credit hours per semes-
ter in college, four more 
and succeeded,” Rutledge said. “She’s 
competed on the biggest stage, on a 
4-inch wide balance beam, 4 feet 
in the air by yourself. And your 
team’s fate is on your shoulders.
“Pressure is not really a factor 
for her.”
Before Florida, she was 
alone.
For thousands of hours, 
Sloan was in the gym, swinging 
from bars, ﬂ  ipping across mats 
and twisting on balance beams. 
Training for the Olympics 
meant at least ﬁ  ve hours in the 
gym every day. Even after the 
Olympics, after high school 
graduation, she took an entire 
year off just to train. It was 
hard to imagine life outside 
the gym. 
da. And while the 20 hours 
a week spent training for 
UF was less than what 
she had been through, she 
was still busy. 
was competing not just for 
herself, but for a team. 
Gymnastics is often a lone-
ly and individualized sport, 
Sloan said, and as a teenager at 
Sharp’s Gymnastics Academy in 
Indiana, training from 2:30 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. every day for months 
on end, it was usually just her, the 
trainer and a balance beam.
But not at Florida. Her team-
mates were her friends. And this was 
her school.
“I did everything in my power to 
make sure Florida was on top,” Sloan 
passing by. She explained why she was giv-
ing up basketball — the game she’s played 
since childhood — to try and make a dif-
ference in the world. 
There were always signs that this 
is how her story at Florida would end. 
That the ticking had been going on for 
some time. Back in high school, for ex-
ample, the star recruit was asked what 
she wanted to do with her life. 
“Be a missionary to Israel,” 
Then there was AnnaRose 
Van Sciver, a troubled 
10-year-old who Brooke 
befriended at UF. She 
made it harder for 
Brooke to justify 
2015, Brooke of-
fered a hint at her future.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult,” she 
said of continuing to play bas-
ketball before referring back 
to AnnaRose. “My heart is in 
There was also Brooke’s 
trip to Thailand in the summer 
of 2016, where she worked to help 
isolated communities by teaching 
kids and building a water con-
tainer out of plastic bottles and 
concrete. There, the ticking be-
came thunderous. 
“There is so much need 
over there, and I’m here,” 
she said when she got back. 
“And I don’t wanna be 
The ticking became deaf-
ening around spring break. 
Around when UF women’s bas-
“I just think that’s so freaking powerful. 
And for us to not use that impact and use 
that inﬂ  uence and that power is just a dis-
service to the world.”
•   •   •
Brooke wept. 
Lying in a hammock in Wang Psra 
— a remote village in Thailand — 
last summer, the fact that she’d 
be leaving soon was already 
chewing at her. The realization 
that the village’s children like-
ly never would leave forced 
her to tears. 
“I just broke down and 
was just bawling crying,” 
she said.
Jakkajun, an 8-year-
old Thai girl who Brooke 
called “June,” was sleep-
ing in her lap when she 
was woken up by Brooke’s 
despair. 
June was a crier herself, as 
one might expect of any 8-year-
old. Throughout the trip, when 
she had fallen or scraped 
something or been afraid, 
Brooke had asked her — de-
spite the fact that June spoke 
no English — “You OK?” 
On the eve of Brooke’s 
departure, after wiping the 
streams of tears ﬂ  owing 
down her face, June re-
turned the favor.
“You OK?” she asked.
crying even 
more,” Brooke 
said.
ed other girls on 
SEE SLOAN,  PAGE 21 SEE COPELAND,  PAGE 23WHERE THEY'VE BEEN WHERE THEY'RE GOINGWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
NOW HIRING
Inside Help + Delivery Drivers
MAKE SOME 
DOUGH
APPLY ONLINE
www.gatordominos.com
ONE NIGHT DAN / OPINION
When I found out I was going to be 
covering track and ﬁ  eld for the Alligator, two things happened immediately. 
First, I knew jack diddly 
squat about how track and ﬁ  eld works, so I started Google searching random things like: How tall is a hurdle? What is consid-ered a fast 400-meter time? Who’s Kerron Clement?
You think I’m joking, but I’m not. And then, I laughed out loud at the im-
age of myself — a guy who doesn’t run 
unless he’s about to miss the bus — inter-
viewing these world-class athletes. 
But I wish I knew then what I know now 
about myself in my one and only semester 
at the Alligator.
And more importantly, how covering a 
sport I knew little about changed the way 
I view sports.  
Before I tell how it did so, I’d like to say 
this: I know you don’t give a you-know-
what about track. At least that’s what I 
thought based off where my articles were placed in the newspaper. 
That’s no knock on the Alligator — it’s the God’s honest truth of it all. Sports like football, baseball, basketball, softball, gymnas-tics, lacrosse, tennis and vol-leyball take priority in the Al-ligator Sports section. 
I didn’t understand at ﬁ  rst. 
The team had just won a na-tional championship the year before.
My thoughts were sports 
fans didn’t know a lot about the athletes involved in track and maybe if they got 
to know them through my articles, they’d 
start paying attention to the team. 
First, I wrote about Kunle Fasasi, a 
sprinter who grew up in a part of Nigeria 
that was known for strictly pursuing aca-
demics, but he stuck with track anyway 
and helped UF men’s 4x400 relay team win an SEC Championship. 
Then, Sharrika Barnett, a Jamaican 
sprinter who nearly quit running in Jamai-
ca because of the competition, but came 
to UF and has helped UF’s women’s 4x400 team to its own SEC Championship. 
Then, Lloydricia Cameron, a thrower who knew she wanted to throw this heavy ball called the shot since she was 3 and is now the best shot putter on UF’s team. 
Then, Eric Futch, who was 
.01 seconds away from reach-ing the Olympic ﬁ  nals, which kept him humble despite win-ning the 400-meter NCAA Out-door National Championship in 2016. 
Then, AJ McFarland, who quit lacrosse 
and football to pursue throwing the ham-
mer (I found out it’s not an actual ham-
mer), a sport he fell in love with and land-ed himself a scholarship to compete at a Division I school, something he always 
dreamed about.
Then, Ebony Luster, a sprinter-turned-
jumper because she said she hated run-
ning; Jack Guyton, a skinny ﬁ  nance major who listens to Kodak Black to get pumped 
for his 1,500-meter races; and Shayla Sand-
ers, an Olympic hopeful who wants to go 
out with a bang in her senior season. 
And ﬁ  nally, Futch and TJ Holmes, team-
mates-turned-brothers who support each other in every race, even when they’re competing against one another. 
These are the stories that made me re-
think the way I watch sports.
It’s not about the points scored. It’s not 
about the stats. It’s not about the trophies. 
It’s not about air pressure in a football. 
It’s not about chugging beers after touch-downs. And it’s not about bashing an entire fan base because of its lack of dental care. 
And sports fans, it’s deﬁ  nitely not about 
forgetting that there is a human underneath that jersey with a story to tell. 
To me, fans can draw the most value 
out of sports when they get to know where their favorite athlete came from and get to know them beneath the surface. Maybe 
they overcame an obstacle. Maybe they 
have an interesting hobby. Maybe they 
think the world is ﬂ  at.
In all seriousness, we should stop think-
ing of them as a piece to our favorite team’s 
championship puzzle and more as human 
beings.
Because when we humanize athletes, 
that’s when we make American sports 
great again. 
 Goodbye Column: It’s time for us to rethink the way we view sports
Daniel Smithson
Twitter: @DanielTSmithson20   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   21
TECH SERVICES FOR HOME & BUISNESS
www.CNE-INC.com  �  352- 373-9697Computer Problems?
We Can Help
IT services • Network Design
Computer Repair • Security Cameras
3rd Annual Garden Show and Spring Festival
May 6th 9:30 am - 5:00 pm, May 7th 9:30 am - 4:00 pm
Adults: $8, Children (6-13): $4, Children under 6: Free
4990 Northeast 180th Avenue, Williston, FL 32696Cedar Lakes Woods & Gardens Presents
www.cedarlakeswoodsandgarden.com 352.529.0055
352-372-7374Call To Receive $20 Off  
Your First Appointment
OLIVIA JANOWICZ
FORMER WOMEN’S TENNIS PLAYER, 2010-2014
Janowicz’s attempt at a pro-
fessional playing career was cut 
short by injuries. She suffered a stress fracture in her foot as a senior while competing in the 
NCAA Tournament. She had surgery, but her foot wouldn’t heal fast enough, and she was forced to give up her dreams of playing professionally.
Now, Janowicz works for JTCC, a non-proﬁ  t 
agency in Washington D.C. that teaches tennis in low-income neighborhoods and schools.
CASEY PRATHER
FORMER MEN’S BASKETBALL PLAYER, 2010-2014
Prather went unselected in the 
2014 NBA Draft. After a short stint 
in the NBA Development league, he signed with the Perth Wildcats in Australia as part of the Na-
tional Basketball League. Prather and the Wildcats won the 2016 NBL Championship, and Prather was named Perth’s MVP.
MACKENZIE DAGOSTINO
FORMER WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL PLAYER, 2013-2015
In March, Dagostino was 
named the new volleyball coach 
at Berkeley Prep in Tampa, where she took over for her father Ran-dy, who coached at the school for 
29 years, winning 15 state championships. Dagostino last played for Florida in 2015 as UF’s starting setter.said. “Everything that I did was for UF.”
Even as she dominated college gymnas-
tics with titles and championships, thou-sands of fans roaring every time she ﬂ  ashed a smile and saluted with a Gator chomp, she mostly avoided the spotlight.
During classes at Florida, when teach-
ers would hold icebreakers, urging each student to open up with three interesting 
things about themselves, she never men-
tioned that she was one of the best gym-nasts in the world. Only that she was born 
in Indiana, she has three siblings, and, oh, 
she’s the youngest.
Sloan was occasionally recognized 
around campus, and always stopped to take a picture when she was asked. But she was also thankful for the heavy coats of makeup she wore on Fridays during meets — it kept her from being recognized when she went to class without the blush and eye-liner.
“Even today, when people are like, did 
you go to the Olympics? I’m like, ‘Yeah, a long time ago,’” Sloan said. “I’ve always looked at my athletic accolades as a little conﬁ  dence booster for me and for me only.”
Although Sloan kept to herself, she often 
made trips to former UF athletics director Jeremy Foley’s ofﬁ  ce to seek advice, talk about the future and, after she graduated, 
to admit that she didn’t know what to do 
next.
“Well,” Foley would tell her, “join the 
club.”
After Sloan graduated, she wanted to 
become a brand ambassador with Nike, working in a major city like Miami, running the company’s accounts and staying up-
to-date on Nike’s new products. But Nike 
doesn’t usually hand out jobs to newly graduated college students. 
Instead, after she earned a telecommu-nication degree from Florida last April, she got a temporary job running State Farm Insurance’s local Twitter account. But she told herself it wouldn’t be long term. 
So she waited.
“I truly believe that something is gonna 
come up,” Sloan said in July. ”A permanent 
position somewhere. And it’ll be ﬁ  ne.”
•   •   •
Laura Rutledge remembers all of their 
names.
Madison Kocian, UCLA.MyKayla Skinner, Utah.Sarah Finnegan, LSU.
“Bridget was one of the ﬁ  rst true, elite 
Olympic gymnasts that decided to go to 
college,” Rutledge said. “And it started this great trend.”
After Sloan committed to Florida in 
2010, making the move from a world stage to a college town in Gainesville, others, like Kocian and Skinner and Finnegan, followed suit.
After all, by age 16, their careers were 
nearly over. All the years of training, the competition, the red, white and blue jackets with the word “USA” etched on the back — ﬁ  nished. 
By gymnastics standards, they were old. “You truly do peak at 16,” Sloan said. 
“People think that it’s so abnormal.”
For many, ﬁ  guring out what to do for 
the rest of their lives can be challenging. Some have nowhere to go, so they return to their schools after they graduate to become assistant coaches, Rutledge said, like Lau-ren Beers at Alabama or Brandie Jay and Brittany Rogers at Georgia.
“It is so difﬁ  cult for them,” Rutledge 
said. “If you think about it, if that’s been your way of life, and not just a way of life, but if you’ve dedicated everything to this sport, what else do you have? What else do you do? Who am I without gymnastics?”
And while some return to their alma 
matters, others are still looking for jobs.
Florida holds events speciﬁ  cally for its 
student athletes designed to help them de-
cide what they want to do after college, said 
Keith Carodine, Florida’s senior associate athletic director of academic affairs.
UF even lends its athletes free suits and 
holds a separate career fair where they can meet with potential employers. But of the 500 or so athletes at UF, Carodine said, usu-ally only 100 attend.
“I think any graduate, especially from 
UF, may have this vision that we’re gonna graduate college, have a great job lined up,” Sloan said. “The older I got, the more I kind of realized it’s a tough world out there.”
Continue reading this story online at 
alligator.org/sports.  SLOAN,  from pg. 18UF holds events to help its athletes ind jobs
 WHERE FORMER FLORIDA 
ATHLETES ARE NOW:
“I think there’s a lot of people who 
assume that athletes get everything 
handed to them. They don’t have to 
work for anything, grades are not 
important. ‘Oh you’re an athlete, 
how does it feel to get everything 
handed to you?’ That is not how it 
works. Whatsoever.”  
Bridget Sloan, UF gymnast“It’s deinitely rough. There’s no way to sugar coat it. Because you have all 
these things to do, and your schedule is set for you, and you have your classes 
set and you’re so busy in life. And the second you graduate NCAAs, it’s like 
radio silence. It’s just silence.”
Olivia Janowicz, former UF tennis player, on the transition to normal life22   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
HERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
I have been dreading 
this moment more than my actual graduation date — saying goodbye to the Alligator sports 
department.
Four years ago, I never 
could have possibly imagined the position I’m in now.
For nearly a year-and-a-
half, I had the honor of writ-ing for one of the best student newspapers around, and on April 30, I’m set to graduate from one of the top jour-
nalism schools in the country.
Like I said, four years ago, I never 
would have seen this stuff coming.
My ﬁ  rst few semesters at UF, I was an 
accounting major. 
Why accounting, you ask? Because 
money. That’s why.
But for more reasons than I can count 
— which is probably another reason why I switched to journalism — I left accounting.
I can’t tell you why I chose journal-
ism in particular, but I can tell you it was 
one of the best decisions I’ve ever made. And working for the Alligator has been one of the most rewarding experiences of my entire life. It was tough, stressful, fun and hilarious, and with it, my love for sports reporting was solidiﬁ  ed, and most 
importantly, my love for storytelling was 
brought to life.
The list of who I need to thank is a long 
one.
First, I have to say thank you to my 
Heavenly Father, who gave me the will and direction to pursue my dreams. To my church family at the Universi-ty City Church of Christ, thank you for always supporting me and for all your encourage-ment over the years — espe-
cially you, Donny Dillon.
To Mom, Dad, Caroline, 
Virginia and Hunter, thank 
you for loving me uncondi-tionally and for supporting the career path I chose. To my parents, thank you for raising 
me the way you did. Thank you for all the sacriﬁ  ce and hard work you put into my 
upbringing. You made me the man I am 
today.
I also need to say thank you to Ian 
Cohen, the sports editor who hired me back in Spring 2016. You alone gave me the single best journalism advice I’ve ever heard: Don’t let your ﬁ  rst story be your best story. Every time you write, imagine it’s your ﬁ  nal audition. 
Thank you so much for pushing me to 
be the best reporter and storyteller I could be.
And ﬁ  nally, I want to thank the people 
who actually read my stories. I hope I left an impression.
Now, here comes the hard part. I somehow have to ﬁ  nish this column.If you, for whatever reason, are still 
reading this, you’re in for a real treat.
What can go through the Green Glass 
Door?
“Eggs” can. “Chickens” can’t.Ironically, “goodbye” can. So can “fare-
well” and “cheerio.”
“So long,” however, cannot.   Basketball reporter says so long  NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
I still remember my ﬁ  rst se-mester at UF in 2012.
It was an uneventful one. 
I didn’t make many friends. I slept too much and drank 
too little. I actually went to my 8:30 a.m. political science class. Just how every college freshman dreams it up, right?
There was this hole in me. 
Something was missing.
Five (hundred) years later, 
I’m kicking myself for ever wasting my time in Gainesville not pursuing my dreams and the 
things that make me happy. My advice to you, 
no matter your major or year, is to do the same.
In my freshman Spring semester, I joined 
Florida’s club baseball team and found what I thought would be fulﬁ  lling enough. Baseball, road trips and great friends. What could be better?
Still, though, I sought more. Then in the Fall 
of 2014, the Alligator gave me a shot.
To be honest, that semester was hell. I 
dreaded each day I was faced with covering lo-cal and campus news. On countless occasions, I’d pounce on some unsuspecting passerby on campus, bombarding her with questions about the new-to-town Uber or her opinion on net neutrality. There were high points, but really, I should’ve been ﬁ  red had it not been for a few patient editors (thanks, Rachel Crosby, Colleen 
Wright, Kathryn Varn and Kristan Wiggins).
But it was the ass-kicking challenge I need-
ed. It also opened the most important door I en-
countered while at UF: the sports department.
Yes, back before the Alligator’s headquar-
ters moved to the Gainesville Sun’s location, four or ﬁ  ve of us would test claustrophobia’s limits while copy editing inside one of the old frat house’s rickety rooms. Thanks to multiple friends along the way (Jordan McPher-son, Eden Otero, Graham Hall), I 
was given the chance to cover UF 
softball’s national championship team in 2015, a season in which I interviewed the renowned Jennie Finch alongside my coworker and friend, Luis Torres.
Then the rest of the dominos 
began to fall.
Florida’s volleyball players probably 
groaned every time I asked about Rhamat Al-hassan’s knitting hobby, a subject I became an expert on during my time on that beat. And I can’t forget about covering the football team this past season with better writers than I (Ethan Bauer, Ian Cohen) helping me along the way.
Covering the baseball team, however, may 
have been the most enriching of the beats, be-
cause it landed me my dream internship fol-
lowing the Miami Marlins for MLB.com, which I’m enthralled to say I’ll be doing again this summer.
It’s weird to think my time as a student 
and writer for the Alligator is coming to an end, which unfortunately means no more Tim Tebow columns (at least not in this newspa-per). But thank you to everyone who has pre-
pared me for the real world — my professors, 
classmates, coworkers, friends, family and most importantly my parents. You guys rock.
Lastly, go out and make the most of 
your college experience. Meet people. Join organizations.
It’ll be over before you know it.  Make the most of your college experience
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   23 
her trip to Thailand as well. One of them was 
Mimi. Mimi never talked to anyone on the ser-vice trips, which cycled in and out of the village every few weeks. Brooke changed that. 
“She’s the first person ever that can make 
Mimi and other kids actually come and hang out with us,” said Yanee Csaisawat, the pro-gram’s director. 
“Brooke was almost like the Mother Theresa 
of all Thai kids,” added Kyle Bell, a UF telecom-munication-news student who joined Brooke on the trip. 
Brooke loves — and has always loved — 
helping children, but she realized the irony of her situation in Thailand. While she has the re-sources to help the children of this village and villages everywhere, the children don’t have the resources to help themselves. 
Brooke said that June, for example, wants to 
be a teacher. Another girl named Im wants to be a nurse. And Mimi — the quietest one of the bunch — wants to be a singer or dancer.
They’re likely destined to be rice farmers. “It just really broke my heart,” Copeland 
said. “I would cry all the time when I went to sleep at night just because I’m thinking these kids are so” — she paused.
“Why me? Why am I so privileged to be 
born in a country that I have so many oppor-tunities? And especially here at the University of Florida,” she said. “They deserve it just as much.”
From that village, Brooke traveled down the 
Mae Taeng river to more villages with more people in need. She said the water looked like the chocolate river from “Charlie and the 
Chocolate Factory,” and she was armed with a 
homemade bamboo raft. Her skin shimmered from bug spray. The bathrooms in the new vil-lages were holes in the ground surrounded by livestock. 
She’d never been happier. 
So when she returned from Thailand and 
immediately headed to an all-inclusive Cancun 
resort with her family, all she could think about was getting back. She could hear it again. Tick. Tick. Tick. 
“I would much rather be uncomfortable, 
sweating in 106-degree weather with bugs all over my body and be genuinely happy just because," she said. "You’re not searching for anything else because you have everything that you need. And the realization of that, and then you try to come back, you’re like, ‘What am I doing?’”
•   •   •
Let’s go back. Back before Thailand. Stand-
ing outside the O’Connell Center after the game — almost any game — AnnaRose waited for Brooke. Brooke always came out to play with the 10-year-old, who’d overcome two heart de-
fects and cancer. In her, Brooke saw herself. 
Of course, she’ll tell you it’s not compara-
ble. She’ll tell you that what AnnaRose went 
through is more difficult. More daunting. On a completely different plane. And she’s probably right. 
After all, Brooke volunteers at hospitals and 
after school programs. She’s graduating college a year early. She’s been named to the SEC Com-
munity Service Team twice. She’s been profiled 
as a model for what people should aspire to. But when she finished playing with AnnaRose after games, Brooke would go home and break down, locked in a battle of her own. 
Everything rained down on her during soph-
omore year. Her grandmother died unexpect-edly. She suffered a concussion and couldn’t play basketball. She had relationship problems 
that, even now, she doesn’t like to talk about. 
She struggled with her body image — some-thing she has struggled with her whole life. She wouldn’t leave her room. And she kept her mouth shut about it all. 
“I wouldn’t talk about it,” she said. “Because you’re supposed to be perfect. You’re supposed to have this ideal life. This bubbly blonde girl.”
She turned to her faith for strength. 
Raised as a Baptist in the small Tennessee 
town of Cleveland, Brooke spent the Sundays of 
her childhood in church. She went and prayed and repeated every week, learning the rhythm and repetition. 
“That’s what I was supposed to do,” she 
said, “and I knew I was saved, and I knew what was right and what was wrong, and read the books and knew the verses and all that. But what is that? That’s the word religion. The self-righteous ‘do this and you go to heaven and don’t burn for eternity.’ It’s just fear and distor-
tion.”
She came to that realization when she ar-
rived at UF, where she no longer had to go to 
church. There was no more repetition. No more hellfire preaching.  So she sat down and tried to figure out what she actually believed.
 It came to her during the darkness. When 
she was at her worst, she said she found God there, waiting for her. Not abandoning her. Giv-ing her peace. 
“It’s wild,” she said, “and you can’t really 
understand it until you experience it.”
Around the same time, Brooke started to see 
the basketball team’s therapist. He’d been hold-ing team meetings, asking players to be open, 
but Brooke never did. She’d crack jokes, listen 
and laugh instead. Coach Butler confronted her about it. 
“You need to open up,” Butler told her. “It’s 
really unhealthy to hold everything in.”
Looking back, Brooke knows she was right. 
Brooke knows she was trying to hold down her emotional vomit. 
“I just didn’t want people to know,” she 
said. “Because they don’t care, you know? Why would I want to put my problems, my struggles that I deal with internally, on them? It didn’t make sense to me.”
Butler mandated that Brooke see the thera-
pist once a week. It did nothing at first, but then the concussion happened. 
“I have no other option but to let it out 
now,” she told herself, “or I’m going to be in a 
terrible place that I don’t wanna be.”
She unleashed everything, and not just her 
college struggles. Everything. About how she 
always felt like an outsider because she was larger than her brothers and classmates. About how she was picked on in elementary school for being fat. About how, as a result, she developed an eating disorder in seventh grade.And she didn’t just tell the team therapist. 
She told her friends. Her coaches. Her team-mates. She calls it learning — and loving — to 
be vulnerable.
“You’re not really living fully,” she said, 
“until you’re vulnerable with people that love 
you and care about you.”
But in addition to her newfound vulner-
ability, all that baggage had another effect on Brooke. It was something that had been there since the beginning. Something that she can’t pinpoint exactly, but that seems to have been brewing beneath the surface forever. The origin of the Tick. Tick. Tick. 
Because she’d been teased, Brooke tried 
reaching out to other outsiders. She’d fight back (verbally) for kids with disabilities. She’d sit with the loners at lunch. When she saw kids come to school with damaged clothes or with-out having showered, she’d plead with her mom.  
“We need to help them,” she’d tell her. That way of life still comes through today. 
It’s what drew her to AnnaRose, to Thailand and to everywhere she’ll go in the future. 
“My entire life, I have never liked myself. 
Never. I still struggle with it today,” she said. “And it’s so much better, but it’s a never-ending process of learning to love yourself. And that’s a huge reason why I am the way I am with other 
people. Because of the internal battle that I’m 
constantly fighting within myself.”
•   •   •
Remember the ring? The one Brooke 
showed off to her friends during her last inter-view as a UF basketball player? It was given to her by UNC basketball star, ACC Player of the Year and guaranteed first-round NBA draft pick 
Justin Jackson. 
The two have known each other since their 
junior years in high school, when they met play-
ing AAU ball. Jackson slid into Brooke’s DMs. 
“You know,” she said, “how every prosper-
ous relationship begins.”
They started dating in senior year before tak-
ing a break in college. Although they had never lived close to each other — he was from Texas 
while she was in Tennessee — the divide be-
tween Gainesville and Chapel Hill was deeper than they expected. They got back together in their sophomore years.
This year, as Justin was making a run 
through March Madness with the Tar Heels, Brooke was contemplating leaving the game. She’d talk to him about it, but she worried it was stressing him out and making him lose focus during the tournament. He reassured her 
with the same promise over and over again.
“Everything’s gonna change after the tour-
nament,” he'd say. 
That made her suspicious, and rightfully so. 
She told her teammates she was getting mar-
ried. 
Justin, meanwhile, lied about going to meet 
an agent in Atlanta, instead flying to Tennes-see to meet with Brooke’s parents and tell them 
his intentions. So when Brooke told her mom of 
her suspicion, her mom told her to stay calm. It was probably nothing. She also called Justin and told him to tone it down. He was giving too much away.
When the day finally came on Easter, they 
were at Seaside Beach in Florida’s panhandle with Justin’s family. Brooke was told there was going to be a family photoshoot and thought 
she’d be the one taking the pictures. Then she 
found out she was going to be in them.
During the shoot, Brooke was taking a break 
to talk to one of Justin’s sisters when he strolled over and dropped to the ground. This was it. The moment men wait for. The moment wom-en dream of. 
“Uhhh,” he muttered, knee in the sand, sun 
setting in the blazing orange sky, “I’m really 
dumb.”
He later revealed that he was trying to 
think of something smooth to say, but it didn’t 
come to him in the moment. And it didn’t mat-ter. Brooke said yes to “I’m really dumb” and watched her family come out of hiding to con-gratulate them. 
“It’s memorable for sure,” she said. They plan to get married in September be-
fore the NBA season. After that, they’ll be liv-ing in the same state for the first time in their four-year relationship. But Brooke doesn’t plan to stay at home much, which is something Jus-tin had trouble accepting for a while. Their rela-tionship had been long distance for so long, and now, even while married, he couldn’t see her?
Brooke was uncompromising, and he 
changed his attitude. Now, he supports her mis-
sion — what she plans to do after she graduates 
this summer with a degree in telecommunica-tion: found a global non-profit organization that focuses on helping kids all over the world. 
For now, she’s focusing on east Africa — 
Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, etc. — because she’s spent a year learning Swahili and wants to use it. After not being able to talk to the kids in Thai-land, she wants to make sure that’s not a prob-
lem again. There, she hopes to avoid building 
orphanages, which she likens to prisons, and instead build something like day cares, where she can help kids from struggling families as well as orphans. 
There’s still, of course, the question of why. 
Sure, there are some answers to why this is what she wants to do. She doesn’t want anyone to feel alone like she did. Jesus demands it. She 
was raised that way. Etcetera. But that’s all sub-
liminal. She could, theoretically, ignore that if she wanted to do something else like, say, play basketball. Why doesn’t she?
If you ask her, she’ll tell you it’s because she 
always wants more of everything. More rela-tionships. More vulnerability. More life. 
“We’re constantly longing for something 
more than what we have,” she said, “which is 
so smart. Because this world is terrifying. This 
cannot be it. This cannot be what we were made to live in. There has to be something more. There has to be a beauty and a light to come at the end of all of this.”
Brooke believes that the light will come from 
God, but she sees it shining in people. That’s why she smiles at everyone. Why she spends weekends tutoring kids instead of doing her 
own work. Why she hears the ticking getting 
louder and louder, pushing her to be more of herself and experience more of life every day.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgCOPELAND,  from pg. 18Copeland's fiance slid into her DMs on Twitter in high school
Courtesy of Brooke Copeland
Former UNC basketball player Justin Jackson proposes to former UF basketball 
player Brooke Copeland on Sunday. 
24   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2017
1
1312111098765432
TH
restau rant & roo ftop barE
NIGHT SPECIALS
$2 Sliders
(Beef, 
Buffalo Chicken, 
BBQ Pork)
 
$2 Bud Light 
Bottles
$2 Taco’s 
(Chicken and 
Pulled Pork)
 
$4 Double 
Wells$5 Flat Bread 
(Buffalo Chicken, 
BBQ Pork)
$2 Longnecks, 
Wells & Wine for 
the LadiesNIGHT 
SPECIALS
$3 
Margaritas
 
$3 Lemon 
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 p.m. to 2 a.m.NIGHT SPECIALS
$3 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken, 
BBQ Pork)
$3 Sangria
$3 Craft Cocktail 
of the week
$3 Craft Beer 
of the weekNIGHT 
SPECIALS
$3 Tequila 
Shots 
$3 Cocktail On 
Tap
$4 Swamphead 
Drafts
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$6 Double 
Vodka Redbull
LIVE DJ
9 p.m. to 2 a.m.HAPPY HOUR
ALL DAY ON SU NDAY
$3 Wells & 
Lemon Drops
$4 Tito’s, 
Tito’s Mules, 
Swamphead 
Drafts & 
First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
$5 Barbaqoa 
QuesadillasSUNDAY MONDAY
TUESDAY THURSDAYFRIDAY SATURDAYWEDNESDAYBEAT-THE-CLOCK  
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Pitchers start at 25¢)
LIVE DJ
1718 West University Avenue
* See bartender for details. FREE WELLS  
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS FOR 
LADIES  + LIVE DJ18 & UP
18 & UP
18 & UP
18 & UP
vw