We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
NCAA Tournament begins Friday 
for Florida  soccer team
For Samantha Chung, the game represents how far she has come, pg. 14. FSU Greek life suspended
Student died, another arrested on cocaine charges, pg. 5.
Students want DACA to stay 
About 50 wrote letters to Congress, pg. 4. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 33
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
PRO-GUN GROUP 
FLORIDA CARRY INC. 
FILED THE SUIT OCT. 20.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
The City of Gainesville faces a 
lawsuit over its ban on weapons, including Tasers, knives and mace, implemented during white suprem-acist Richard Spencer’s appearance at UF.
Pro-gun nonproﬁ  t Florida Car-
ry Inc. ﬁ  led the lawsuit Oct. 20, arguing the city acted outside its 
authority in banning weapons in 
downtown Gainesville and the des-
ignated areas near where Spencer spoke at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
Florida Carry, represented by 
Jacksonville attorney Eric J. Friday, claims the city is superseded by the Florida Legislature in regulating 
possession of weapons by people 
who own a state-authorized con-cealed carry license, according to 
the lawsuit. The group argues when 
Gov. Rick Scott declared a county-
wide state of emergency ahead of Spencer’s speaking event, only he or the state could then implement a 
weapons ban, not the city.
“Defendants know, or should 
know, that they are without au-thority to regulate the bearing of 
arms, as only the Legislature may 
regulate the bearing of arms,” the lawsuit reads, citing the Florida 
Constitution.
The group who ﬁ  led doesn’t 
seek money but a declaration of 
wrongdoing by the city, according to the suit. Florida Carry is also di-
recting the suit toward City Man-
ager Anthony Lyons, who drafted 
the city’s emergency orders before Spencer’s appearance.
City ofﬁ  cials declined to com-
ment, saying the litigation is still pending.
The group argues the order pre-
vents its members, “who live in, work in, travel through, or visit the City of Gainesville,” from exercis-ing their constitutional right, ac-
cording to the lawsuit.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgCity sued over weapons ban during Richard Spencer eventAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ART CIRCLES
Julie Morrisroe, 55, UF professor of painting and drawing works on a mural with Laura North, 23, UF 
ﬁ  ne arts senior, called “Currents of Data. ” The mural is being painted on the Water Reclamation T ank located on Gale Lemerand Drive. Read the story, pg. 5. 
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Amid the sound of cars rushing past, wa-
ter splashing in a nearby fountain and people 
chatting on the sidewalk, a chime was barely audible. 
It rang 26 times, once for each life lost in a church shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas. It was the same chime that rang 59 times just over a month ago for the victims of the Las Vegas Strip shooting.
Tuesday evening, 10 people gathered out-
side Gainesville City Hall to remember the 26 victims who were killed by a gunman who 
opened ﬁ  re inside the First Baptist Church in Texas. With candles in hand, attendees, 
some dressed in black, bowed their heads in silence as the chime rang out. The vigil was organized by Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. 
“We always say ‘not one more,’ and 
there’s always one more,” said Jenna Preble, 
head of the Gainesville chapter of Moms De-mand Action for Gun Sense in America. 
City Commissioner Helen Warren was the 
only member of the City Commission in atten-
dance. 
Dari Smith, a volunteer with Moms Demand 
Action for Gun Sense in America, arrived at the Gainesville citizens hold vigil for victims of Texas shooting
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 3
Christina Morales and 
David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writers
Kyle Phipps remembers exactly 
where he was on Nov. 8, 2016 — 
election day.
Phipps watched results stream 
in on Fox News in his apartment 
from 6 p.m. through 3 a.m. When 
he learned President Donald Trump 
won the 2016 presidential election, 
he said he was happily surprised.
But he said he knew Trump 
would win once he clinched Flor-
ida.
“You have to go into a situation 
knowing that you may come out with a loss or things might not go the way you want,” the 20-year-old said.
Across town, Jordan Brown, a 
then-freshman in UF College Dem-ocrats, sat at a watch party in high spirits. 
As the elections turned against 
Hillary Clinton, Brown left to her apartment. 
“When you lose Florida, you 
have essentially lost the election,” 
the 19-year-old said. “When it went 
for Donald Trump, it was kind of the nail in the cofﬁ  n for a lot of us.”
Brown, a UF sustainability and 
the built environment sophomore, said she was disappointed after the work she did helping Clinton’s campaign. 
“I really, really, really believed 
in Hillary Clinton,” she said. 
Stephen Craig, a UF political sci-
ence professor on political behav-
ior, said Republicans and Demo-
crats voted for their own parties as they normally do, but factors like identity, education, racial resent-ment and economic instability had a larger effect on the results than previous years.
The election was about identity 
politics, particularly involving peo-
ple’s racial and religious identities, 
Craig said. 
After the election, Will Atkins, 
the executive director of Multicul-tural and Diversity Affairs, said students were concerned about the future of their country.
“We did see students express-
ing their shock and just curiosity 
around how the results played out, 
but we also recognize that some students across campus were in fa-vor of the results,” he said. City reﬂ  ects on year 
since Trump election
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 3
NCAA Tournament begins Friday 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
HIGH  84° LOW  62°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Tour of UF Health Heart & 
Vascular and Neuromedicine 
Hospital UF Health will give updates regarding the UF Health Heart 
& Vascular and Neuromedicine 
Hospital, located at 1505 SW Archer Road, on Wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 
and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. A 
meal will be provided at each 
event, followed by a tour of 
the new hospital after the pre-sentation. Free parking will be available at the new hospital. The event is free and open to the public. Registration is re-quired and seating is limited. For more information call 352-265-0373 or visit UFHealth.org/events. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 33
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 4 
p.m. from now until Wednesday, November 8. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
November 14 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the 
new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Thursday 
November 30 at 3 p.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to 
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
vigil toting her own candle. She 
spent Tuesday evening mourn-
ing the loss of the Texas church-goers, but Wednesday she will meet with state senators and advocate for common sense 
gun control laws in Tallahassee, 
she said. 
Smith said she feels that 
current gun laws are too le-nient and allow individuals with mental illness or a crimi-nal background access to guns. 
Smith also said there should be 
more restrictions on the types of weapons people are permitted to buy. 
“The type of guns that peo-
ple are able to purchase, I think, are very harmful with a purpose only to kill,” the 56-year-old said. 
Despite the increasing fre-
quency of mass shootings in America, Smith said she will continue to honor the lost lives.
“I think it’s important that 
we don’t become desensitized 
to killings that have become so 
common,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
“ASK BEF ORE YOU A CT”
WE T ALKED, 
AND I LIS TENED.
IT WAS...
• SAFE
• AROU SING
• ENTHU SIASTIC
• MUTU AL
227 NW 23rd Ave
Gainesville, FL 32609maggie@carpet1floorandhome.com352.380.9797Maggie Crane
Manager/Owner15%
discount
CarpetOne.com
®
THE STORE WILL BE 
OPEN 8 A.M. TO 11 P .M. 
STARTING WEDNESDAY.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Underneath The Standard at 
Gainesville, Albert and Alberta wel-
comed Target’s mascot, Bullseye, with open arms. 
The trio stood at the front en-
trance of Target’s new location at The Standard, located at 250 NW 13th St., and greeted UF students and residents as part of the store’s soft opening event on Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. At 23,000 square feet, the location is Target’s ﬁ  rst “footprint” location in Florida, store director Alan Ray said. 
Compared to the other two Tar-
get superstores in Gainesville, the new location is designed to be more metropolitan in style and size, Ray said. The stock includes groceries, clothes, video games, cell phones and a small pharmacy. 
“We’re just looking to be a great 
go-to shopping destination for obvi-ously students and also the people who live in the area,” he said. 
Inside the store, a cupcake ar-
rangement in the shape of the Tar-get logo greeted customers at the cash registers. The Target employee dressed as Bullseye walked about posing for pictures with families and kids. 
Phillip Hulme, a UF second-year 
business graduate student, stood in the snack aisle, picking which de-luxe roasted peanuts container he’d take home. 
Hulme lives about a mile away 
from campus, but he said he’s excit-ed to have a new store right on the route of his Northwest 13th Street commute. 
“I’m excited,” the 31-year-old 
said. “It’s right next to where I park.”
Outside the main entrance, a 
one-story red and white balloon archway stood tall.
As Gainesville resident Ron Kay 
biked toward campus along the sidewalk, he stopped to admire the archway. 
“I didn’t even know they were 
opening today,” the 36-year-old said. Kay, a dishwasher at Leonardo’s 
By the Slice, walked through the clothing aisle of the store to see if they had blue jeans for the cold sea-son ahead. Living a block east of The Standard, he looks forward to having a store close by. 
“I’ve got to say, I think I could 
get used to this,” he said, his eyes gleaming as he looked around the store. “This beats going all the way down to Archer every time I want to go to Target.”
@hofﬁ  david123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
Target location at The Standard holds soft opening 
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Dari Smith and Wes Wheeler hold candles as Catherine Cake hits a chime 26 
times to remember the victims of Sunday’s shooting in Sutherland Springs, T exas.
VIGIL,  from pg. 1Organizers advocate gun control 
To address the student’s 
concerns, Atkins said the of-
ﬁ  ce hosted a reﬂ  ection dialogue space, co-sponsored with the Counseling & Wellness Cen-
ter, along with an inauguration 
viewing and political action fo-rum. 
Atkins said even today, stu-
dent concern about the state of the nation comes up. 
“Based on what we’re see-
ing, we don’t know what to expect from week to week, so 
I think the adjustment period is 
still happening,” he said.
However, the election made 
students more eager to get in-volved, Atkins said. 
“I think students have be-
come more aware of their re-sponsibilities in remaining civi-cally engaged and using their 
voice for good,” Atkins said. 
The remnants of a year-old 
grafﬁ  tied swastika still mark 
Ronnie Sartain’s sidewalk. 
Last October, someone 
spray painted the Nazi symbols in purple ink on the Trump/Pence signs the 70-year-old put out on his front lawn. The side-
walk leading up to the retiree’s 
Gainesville home and his ga-rage door were also tagged. No matter how many times 
Sartain, who doesn’t align him-self with a party, tried scrubbing the symbol off his sidewalk, he couldn’t completely remove it. 
When the former U.S. Army 
physicist voted for Donald Trump, he said it was about one thing: change.
“It had nothing to do with 
Obama, nothing to do with Hill-ary Clinton, nothing to do with the party,” he said. “We need a change of things.”
After one year in ofﬁ  ce, he 
said he feels the president is still learning the game. The real power is in Congress, he said. 
As Sartain looked down at 
the Swastika shade that stains his sidewalk, he said he’s still determined. He’s ready to re-search candidates for the 2018 
and 2020 elections and he still 
plans to put signs on his front lawn. 
“The more people out there 
getting involved… more bet-ter,” he said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org ELECTION,  from pg. 1Students still worried4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here •  352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 BREAKFAST
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
With a buyout worth three-quarters 
of a billion dollars, the City of Gainesville 
evaded one of its most expensive and hot-ly contested contracts in recent history. 
After years of back-and-forth con-
templation, the city closed a deal with Gainesville Regional Utilities on Tuesday morning to buy the Gainesville Renew-able Energy Center biomass plant for $750 million. 
The city entered a 30-year contract 
with the plant, located at 11201 NW 13th St., in 2009 to help supply the area with renewable power. Throughout the three 
decades, the city would have had to pay 
more than $2.1 billion to the plant. 
Instead, the city will pay $750 million 
in bond payments over the next 30 years to the plant, which was renamed Deer-haven Renewable Generation Station on Tuesday, District 3 City Commissioner David Arreola said. 
Residents will save 8 to 10 percent on 
electric bills starting as early as January, Mayor Lauren Poe said.
Retired nurse Debbie Martinez has 
spoken before the City Commission nu-merous times against the GREC contract. Martinez, who has lived in Gainesville since 1965, said even with the new $750 million purchase, she worries about debt piling up and falling on taxpayers’ shoul-
ders. 
“We’re not Naples; we’re not Fort My-
ers. It’s not chump change we’re talking 
about here,” she said. “Our county can ill afford to get ripped off like this. What happens when we have to borrow money for the next emergency? We’ve maxed out our credit card here.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org City, GRU buy biomass plant
ABOUT 50 STUDENTS SENT A 
CARD TO CONGRESS.
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
Students urged congress to support the un-
documented community and DACA on Tuesday. 
UF Chispas, Students Taking Action Against 
Racism and the Hispanic Student Association’s ofﬁ  ce of political affairs hosted a letter-writing 
event on Turlington Plaza in support of the De-
ferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
“No Human is Illegal: Support the Dream 
Act” and “Support our Dreamers: Pass the Dream Act Now!” were messages displayed on the covers of postcards provided by the groups. The cards were addressed to Senator Marco Ru-bio, Congressman Ted Yoho and Congressman Mario Díaz-Balart.
Michael Rayes, a 21-year-old UF history se-
nior and Chispas president, stressed his organi-zation’s interest in compelling members of Con-gress to pass legislation in support of DACA and the DREAM Act. In September, President Donald Trump announced he would end the DACA pro-gram. 
“We are here today to amplify the voices of 
undocumented people around the country and why there is such a need for a clean DREAM Act,” he said. 
More than 50 students wrote postcards, 
Rayes said. 
Marisela Benitez, an 18-year-old UF biomedi-
cal engineering freshman, said she was ﬁ  rst at-tracted to the event because of the free cookies, but was happy to support the undocumented 
community.
“My mom is an immigrant from Peru,” 
Benitez said. “She has her residency now. I grew 
up in the hispanic community and always heard a lot about the Dreamers and DACA and how it affects so many families.” 
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.orgUF students write letters for DACA WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
FORMER UF PRESIDENT 
MACHEN ADDRESSED 
ALCOHOL ABUSE.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida State University sus-
pended all of its fraternities and 
sororities Monday after a student died at an off-campus party, and after another student was arrested 
on drug-related charges in a seper-
ate incident.
The suspension terms include 
fraternity and sororities being un-able to hold events to recruit new members, council or chapter meet-ings and other chapter-organized events, according to a news release from FSU. Members will be able 
to remain residents of their orga-
nization’s house and have meal service. In addition to suspending Greek life indeﬁ  nitely, FSU Presi-dent John Thrasher announced an alcohol ban at all events held by the university’s student organiza-tions. 
“For this suspension to end, 
there will need to be a new normal for Greek Life at the university,” Thrasher said in a news release. 
When asked if UF has a similar 
plan for its Greek life, UF spokes-person Janine Sikes said she was unsure. 
“Who knows,” Sikes said. “The 
bottom line is we need to check in 
with Student Affairs.” 
Garrett J. Marcy, a 20-year-old 
member of Phi Delta Theta fraterni-
ty at FSU, was arrested Monday for the sale and trafﬁ  cking of cocaine after FSU police ofﬁ  cers searched his apartment. 
Andrew Coffey, a 20-year-old 
pledge of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity at FSU, died Friday morning after ﬁ  rst responders found him unre-sponsive and were unable to revive him. Although the details of his 
death are still unknown, investiga-
tors collected liquor bottles from the house porch as evidence, ac-cording to the Tallahassee Demo-crat. 
In an email statement Monday 
night, Sikes said the UF adminis-tration was saddened to hear about Coffey’s death. 
“We respect and commend 
President Thrasher’s decision to do everything in his power to prevent another student death,” Sikes wro-te.                                                                        
Sikes said she thinks binge 
drinking is generally the cause of issues on college campuses, and UF has worked to address that in 
the past 10 years. 
When Bernie Machen served as 
UF’s president from 2004 to 2014, 
a series of alcohol-related deaths struck the university, Sikes said. She said Machen took a strong stance against alcohol abuse, but she is unaware if he ever consid-ered suspending Greek organiza-
tions. 
She said UF President Kent 
Fuchs has furthered Machen’s ini-
tiatives, such as the Community Alcohol Coalition, which holds pe-riodic meetings with Fuchs, local bar owners, beer distributors and others to discuss ways to end binge drinking and underage drinking.
“Alcohol use and abuse on col-
lege campuses around the country, and in Gainesville, has taken far too many lives,” Sikes wrote in an email. “There is still work to do, and we will continue to focus on this issue.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgFSU suspends Greek life 
after student death 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
With a paint-covered smock tied 
around her waist and a ﬂ  oppy hat 
sitting on her head, Julia Morrisroe ducked beneath a tarp and painted circles on a new campus mural.
Bright yellow, cyan, magenta 
and green dots ripple on the side of the 500-foot-diameter of the Water Reclamation Tank, located along 
Gale Lemerand Drive. 
“I’ve always lived by translating 
the world visually,” the UF painting 
and drawing professor said. “Seeing it and trying to ﬁ  gure out a way to make what I see happen, and that’s really what a painting is.”
Morrisroe began painting Oct. 
27 and has worked about nine days, she said. The project, which includes two lectures, cost $20,000, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an email.
Part one of the mural, “Currents 
of Data,” took about eight months to plan and was inspired by Morris-roe’s photos from Blue Springs State 
Park. 
She said she wants to connect 
the springs with how data is used in 
environmental protection. 
“Researching can save the 
springs, can protect our environ-ment,” she said. “To me those are really natural connectors we some-times forget about.”
She hopes to complete the mu-
ral’s ﬁ  rst half this weekend. The mural’s second part will be worked on in 2018. Morrisroe began paint-ing on the tank’s side pedestrians pass.“I think art improves people’s 
lives,” she said. “So many people come through here all day, all morn-ing, all afternoon, and the evening, and they deserve to have a better place to come through.”
Laura North, a UF painting se-
nior assisting Morrisroe, said the mural’s uplifting, bright colors are memorable.
“I think these sorts of colors are 
sort of shocking; they can stay with you,” the 23-year-old said. 
Morrisroe, who’s painted murals 
before, said UF should have more public art. 
“Not all people are going to go 
to museums, and not all people are going to think carefully about what they’re looking at, but we should give them opportunities to do that,” she said.New campus mural to combine 
environmentalism and data
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pride Student Union will host a 
three-week program to celebrate in-
clusivity and teach students about transgender people. 
On Monday, the club kicked off 
the week with an informational ses-sion. Next Monday, they will give a presentation on the history of trans-gender people and their treatment at a meeting in Ustler Hall at 8 p.m., said Taylor Baker, 22, the president of Pride Student Union and a trans woman.On Nov. 20, the organization 
will host a service for Transgender Day of Remembrance, a nationally 
observed day, Baker said. 
“(The service) has a lot of emo-
tion in a room,” Nate Quinn, the 
vice president of the organization, 
said. “Sometimes it’s too much; I 
worry it’ll go wrong.” 
Quinn, 19, said he will go home 
to Sarasota the day of the service, 
being held to memorialize those 
killed as a result of transphobia, 
which is prejudice against transsex-
ual or transgender people, he said. 
Quinn, a trans man, said he will spend the day avoiding large 
crowds and emotional settings.
Baker admits speaking about 
transgender issues can be hard when the audience isn’t receptive. 
She knows students aren’t always 
there because they want to be. 
“(Students) come out because 
they get extra credit for class,” she 
said. “It’s a little frustrating.” 
Her main goal is to educate, she 
said. She strives to encourage stu-dents to promote inclusiveness, es-
pecially in how they speak. 
“I think it’s an important thing 
to make the world safer,” she said.Pride Student Union hosts 
Transgender awareness programThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
For once, FSU is a 
role model 
Florida State University President John Thrasher announced 
Monday he’s indefinitly suspending all fraternities and so-rorities at FSU, effective immediately. This follows a slew of appalling incidents within the school’s Greek community, most notably the death of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity pledge 
Andrew Coffey who was found unresponsive after attending a party. 
According to the release, published on FSU’s Office of Fra-
ternity and Sorority Life website, chapters will not be allowed to hold new member events, council or chapter meetings, chap-ter-organized tailgates, chapter events such as socials, philan-thropies, retreats, intramurals or participate in FSU’s upcoming Homecoming during the suspension. ABC news reported Thrash-er also banned alcohol at all student organization events during 
the suspension.
As expected, the suspension generated mixed reactions from 
FSU students, college students across the country and general 
observers. Some may be enraged the way of life they’ve grown accustomed to is being threatened and think the punishment is too extreme. Others may feel something like this should have been done long ago in order to prevent horrific incidents like Coffey’s death.
We feel President Thrasher and FSU should be commended 
for taking a drastic step in eradicating dangerous behavior in the Greek community. In fact, we wouldn’t consider it too drastic for UF to make a similar move. 
It seems as though every few weeks we hear another news 
story about a despicable hazing allegation or we find ourselves consoling a friend after they share personal accounts of how their chapter has wronged them. For a few days after news like this breaks, people are appalled. They denounce harmful aspects of Greek life and a weak sanction may be put on specific chapters. 
But nothing really sticks.Sanctions are lifted, media attention moves on and things go 
back to exactly how they were before. We rarely give Greek or-ganizations the supervision needed, and if we continue to neglect punishment, nothing is going to change.
We recognize UF has attempted to reprimand the Greek com-
munity in the past. Individual chapters have been punished for transgression, and occasionally sent off campus. But chapter-specific reprimands typically remain under wraps, and banned 
chapters just return after a few years. 
We agree, it isn’t fair that chapters in FSU’s Greek community 
who have a stellar record of acting respectably are being pun-
ished just as much as those who have committed extreme hazing. We also understand many Greek chapters provide a loving and supportive environment that enriches the lives of their members. This isn’t a call for an attack on the Greek community. This is a call to action.
We believe Greek life on college campuses has the potential 
to provide something unique and important. Students can form relationships that last a lifetime, and they can succeed and grow into the best versions of themselves when they are lifted up by the support system their chapters provide. We believe Greek life can be great. But right now, it’s not.
For once, we should be looking to FSU as an example to fol-
low. We need a wake-up call for the Greek community at UF. Serious punishments against hazing and risky behavior are nec-essary to break the cycle they exist within. It’s time we get seri-
ous about solving the problems that exist within the Greek com-
munity so that chapters can focus on the good they have the potential to provide. Take it from me, just wear the helmet
It’s been more than a week since a car hit 
my scooter while I was driving, but I can’t stop replaying the moment in my head. I 
can still hear the car’s brakes screeching 
futily. I can still feel the road scraping my 
hands and my back as I tried to catch my-self. I remember looking at one of my best 
friends, who was riding on the back, with 
tears and shock in both of our eyes. Gasoline was spewing from the scooter — which my helmet was resting safely inside of.
I walked away with a minimal fracturing in my low-
er spine. My friend made it out with small fractures in her foot. We both suffered from some road rash, swelling and bruising. All things considered, we were fine. We left the scene without falling victim to a much 
worse outcome.
Still, I can’t stop thinking about what could have 
happened if the car had hit my scooter at a different 
speed or a different angle and either of us had hit our heads. Then what? 
There are a lot of reasons I usually decide not to put 
on my helmet when I get on my scooter; I just straight-ened my hair; I’m just scooting on campus; I’m just too lazy to unlock the seat compartment and fasten the 
helmet and lock the seat compartment again. 
Probably the most convincing reason I rarely put on 
that black piece of fiberglass is that pretty much no one 
else does. I don’t have to either, I tell myself. I never realized what a stupid reason that was until last week. 
Since the accident, I’ve realized how lucky I am. I 
have friends who waited at the emergency room until 5 a.m. and put barstools in the middle of the dance floors at Midtown so that I can feel like myself again, without 
standing up for too long. I have parents who tried to 
drive five hours in the middle of the night to make sure I was okay. I’m alive and well, and I can write this column. I’m almost ready to get back on a scooter, but I won’t even think about doing that until I have a helmet on. 
We’ve made scooters a part of our culture 
at UF, and it’s time we make helmets a part of it, too. Before the accident, I was the type to say “good for you” when I saw someone 
put on their helmet, like that extremely logi-
cal decision was commendable. I’d make a mental note that I should start wearing mine, 
too, but I’d never follow through. I’d lie to my parents and the scooter salesman that gave me a helmet for free 
if I promised to wear it all the time. I know I’m not the 
only one. 
We all have to stop letting the small inconvenience 
of putting on a helmet (and offering one to our pas-
sengers) stop us from potentially saving our lives. We 
have to make it a habit, not a special occasion. We have to band together to make it weirder to see some-one without a helmet than to see someone with one. 
Take it from the very attractive doctor who wheeled 
me in to get an x-ray while I had dried mascara-tears all over my face.
“Can I give you a dad lecture?” he asked. He told me 
he had seen a girl, “just like you,” get into a scooter 
accident without her helmet and not make it out of the 
hospital. He told me it would make him feel a lot better if I promised to always wear mine. 
I can’t let him down. Promise me you won’t either. 
I’ll be back to writing about boys and bars next week, 
and I couldn’t be more thankful.
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays. Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
I don’t know if it’s because 
the holidays are coming up, or if there’s something in the air, but a large por-tion of my friends have 
recently gotten engaged. Don’t get me wrong, I think it’s fantastic. Really. I am so happy they found and picked the person they want to be with for the rest of their lives. But at the same time, it has left a lot of my single friends feeling like they don’t have their lives together.
I’m here to tell you that it’s OK to not 
have your life — especially your love life — ﬁ  gured out in your 20s. In fact, a good portion of us are still working our way through that department. Don’t worry, that doesn’t make you any less loved or worthy, it just means the right time or situation hasn’t occurred for you yet.
I somehow fall under the ﬁ  rst half of 
the equation where the right time in my life to get engaged and married hasn’t quite worked its way out yet. I’m still in school, and I plan to spend two and a half more years in graduate school. My signiﬁ  cant other of four years has a full-time job halfway across the state. We make it work, but we’re in no way ready to get married right now, and that’s OK. For most, marriage is a lifetime com-mitment. This is why you should make sure the timing is right for you and your partner. There’s no book that says after a certain amount of time spent dating you have to get married. Take the time you need to ensure you’re at a point in your life where you’re ready to enter into marriage.
The second half of the equation is 
whether you’re in the right situation. This could mean the person you started seeing might be your future spouse but you aren’t quite sure, or that you’re dat-ing and enjoying your youth without having to worry about commitment. In both cases you aren’t in the right situa-tion to get married, which is ﬁ  ne. Being single or dating with a spar-ing amount of luck doesn’t mean you’re damaged goods, it just means your situation isn’t right. You’re young and you’re allowed to make mis-takes and memories when it comes to dating. It’s all part of the journey.
In either case, I’d like you 
to keep in mind that it’s not 
the end of the world if you’re not mar-ried in your twenties or thirties or even if you decide you don’t ever want to get married. It’s a commitment that, if done successfully, should last a long time. Re-member, if it’s not the right time for you, that’s perfectly ﬁ  ne. 
The worst thing you can do is try to 
force something out of a relationship, only for it to fall apart completely. Take your time — there isn’t a ﬁ  nish line and sometimes the best ones are picked last. 
I’m not in any way anti-marriage. In 
fact, I think it’s a beautiful concept and I wish the people in their early and mid-20s who are embarking on that next step all the best of luck, but dear readers, I hope if you’re not one of them that you don’t beat yourself up about it or feel unworthy because of it. Instead, I hope you enjoy the bridal showers with their ﬂ  oral towel gifts and pumpkin bread. I hope you are able to put your fears and concerns aside and be happy for your friends that are stepping into this next portion of their lives. You just need to keep in mind that your time will come or might not if you decide marriage isn’t for you. 
Your life, including your love life, 
will work itself out over the years. Stop worrying about it and enjoy college, or your ﬁ  rst real full-time job, or whatever else will be thrown your way in the next few years. 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.
Last week I was applying to an internship at a well-known ﬁ  -nancial institution when I came across a bizarre portion of the application. Titled “self-iden-
tiﬁ  cation,” I was asked a series of questions that you’d typically expect on a job application. There was noth-ing abnormal about the self-identiﬁ  -cation section until I reached the very bottom of the page where, in my opinion, I was asked an extremely invasive and inappropriate question: “Please indicate your sexual orienta-tion.”
I initially could not believe that this was a 
serious question, much less that the applica-tion required an answer for completion. Why did a global ﬁ  nancial institution want to know who I enjoy sleeping with? What did it matter to them? I realized that therein lies the problem. It does matter to them, because diversity matters to them. 
The application stated that the company can 
use and disclose the sexual orientation data to management and other personnel involved in hiring decisions for the purposes of the com-pany’s recruitment process and its development of a “diverse talent pipeline.” In other words, the company could and would consider this in-formation when reviewing my application. 
My reluctance to answer had nothing to do 
with the actual substance of the question. In an ideal world, I would have had no problem with checking the box that said “heterosexual.” But it was because I was being asked on the basis of diversity that I sensed a tinge of discrimination. Let’s be real. The company was explicitly stat-ing that it is attempting to increase its diversity, and that is the purpose for its self-identiﬁ  cation questions. So was I wrong to think that as a straight male the qualiﬁ  cations were working against me? 
Upon completion of the application, I found 
it even more ironic that the company disclosed that it takes every possible step to make sure individuals are treated equally and that recruit-ment decisions are solely based on objective and job-related criteria. If that’s true, then why the questions on sexual orientation, or even the questions on race and ethnicity? Would it have been okay if the company had asked me my religion? 
We as a society have been sold a 
narrative that diversity is good. It’s become a quintessential buzz phrase of progressives. It sounds nice so they say it eventually hoping that it will become true. However, to this day I have not met anyone who has been able to defend the promotion of 
diversity solely for the sake of diversity. 
Perhaps initially well-intentioned, diversity 
efforts in this country have hit a damaging ex-treme. During the civil rights movement, people like Martin Luther King Jr. rightfully asked to be judged on the content of their character and not the color of their skin. However, decades later it seems like we’re doing the exact opposite.
It’s why, for example, Harvard University is 
under investigation by the Department of Jus-tice for its afﬁ  rmative action admission poli-cies. Critics allege that if Harvard was accepting students based on merit, it would have more Asian-American students. This practice likely isn’t limited to Harvard. Why can’t prospective college students be judged on their academic qualiﬁ  cations?
The promotion of diversity should also be 
criticized at the immigration level. Last week’s New York City terrorist was able to enter the U.S. under the “Diversity Visa Program,” an im-migration program that grants visas to under-represented nationalities as long as they have a high school degree or two-years of job experi-ence in certain occupations. We shouldn’t be handing out green cards as part of a lottery. Entry into the U.S. is arguably one of the most prestigious privileges in the world. It should be reserved for those who are highly skilled or highly educated — not simply to make our country more diverse. 
It’s clear that our society has shifted away 
from a meritocracy and moved toward one that seems to value race, ethnicity, sex and sexual orientation above all else. I hope one day we can return to a society that values and encour-ages hard work and achievement. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF ﬁ  nance senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
It’s OK if you’re not ready to get 
married in your early 20sDiversity for the sake of diversity has 
hit a damaging extreme in the U.S. Column Column
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgEduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Holey Miss Moley:
Funk/soul band to perform at First Mag (pg. 10)Block Party: 
Over Easy Creative to host three-stage event (pg. 10)By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
The 36th Annual Downtown 
Festival and Art Show returns this 
weekend to take over Gainesville.
“The positive energy that surg-
es through the downtown festi-val and art show is one of those untouchables that people are just drawn to,” event coordinator Sun-
shine Andrei said.
The Downtown Festival and 
Art Show, which is put on by the 
City of Gainesville Parks, Recre-
ation and Cultural Affairs Depart-
ment, is set to sprawl across the downtown area on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
This year, there will be more 
than 60 community groups, 19 food vendors and 240 artist booths, including a few dozen new artists 
and many returning. One hundred 
and ninety artists will compete for a total of $20,000 in cash prizes, with the highest prizes going to 
2D and 3D Best in Show awards of 
$2,000 each.
“We have a lot of artists that 
people come and look forward to seeing each year,” Andrei said.
Planning an event with the magnitude of the Downtown Fes-tival and Art Show is no small undertaking. Andrei said it takes 
a full year, and this year will see 
the expansion of some community favorites and the introduction of new ones.
Down the street from Bo Did-dley Community Plaza, the Down-town Festival and Art Show will introduce its ﬁ  rst 352ARTS area. 
This area will showcase local 
artist groups which Andrei said “bring arts and culture to our community.”
This year’s festival will also see an expansion of the Young Artists’ Courtyard. There will be 17 local artists, ages 7 to 18, displaying 
and selling their original work in 
front of Gainesville City Hall.
Four stages will showcase live 
entertainment throughout the 
weekend, featuring concerts, per-
formances from local dance com-panies, aerial performers and in-teractive shows at the Children’s 
Imagination Stage.
Musical performances will fea-
ture genres ranging from pop to 
blues. From 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sat-
urday night, the stage on Bo Did-
dley Plaza will hold a free blues concert with headliner Gracie Cur-ran & the High Falutin’ Band.
While the majority of musi-
cal performances will be by local bands, Gracie Curran is a Boston native with powerhouse vocals and a legendary stage presence 
that have welcomed her into blues 
clubs across the country.
Curran, a new face to the 
Gainesville music scene, grew up 
in a home inundated with music. 
Her mother was their church choir director, while her father worked as a bouncer for the local blues club. Curran, however, found her 
personal love of blues from dig-ging through her parents’ records, 
inspired by sirens like Etta James and Sharon Jones.
Struggling as a secretary, some-
times spending the Boston winter without heat or water, Curran wrote her ﬁ  rst album, “Proof of 
Love,” with the words that spoke 
to her life: “Even with the rain pouring down on me, I know the sun will come out eventually.”
Since the release of “Proof of 
Love,” Curran has been over-whelmed by the connection fans have with her music and is prepar-
ing to release her next album. Cur-
ran said it’s the honesty of blues music that resonates with people.
“Blues is such an honest expres-
sion of yourself. It’s such an hon-
est art form, in that it’s yourself 
and your feelings completely un-ﬁ  ltered,” Curran said. “We forget sometimes that we all go through 
the same s---, excuse my language; 
we really do, we go through it all.”
Curran, in her thick Boston ac-
cent, promises to make the audi-
ence “feel everything” through her 
performance.
“It’s like, we cry and get upset 
and then say ‘Hey! We got past that, and now we’re just shaking 
our a--,’” Curran said.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
On Sept. 23, soul musician Charles Bradley 
died of complications from stomach and liver 
cancer. He was 68 years old.
Sunday at 7 p.m., High Dive will host a 
tribute to Charles Bradley featuring Gaines-
ville’s own Savants of Soul, Wester Joseph’s 
Stereo Vudu and Idylwild. The bands will play songs from the catalog of the self-proclaimed ‘Screaming Eagle of Soul,’ as well as original songs inspired by his work.
In 2016, Glory Days Presents booked Brad-
ley as the headliner for the Changeville Festi-val, which coincided with the reopening of Bo Diddley Plaza. The show was Bradley’s only 
performance in his hometown of Gainesville. 
Many of his family members attended. 
Now, Glory Days Presents is honoring 
Bradley at High Dive with a three-act perfor-mance, featuring bands that will continue his soulful legacy.
“It will be a night of remembrance and of 
celebration,” according to the event’s Face-book page.
In addition to the songs that will directly 
honor Bradley in their set list, the members of Savants of Soul will play two songs recorded at Vince Chiarito’s Brooklyn studio, as Chiarito was a member of Charles Bradley and His Ex-traordinaires.The songs, “Dead Man Running” and 
“Missed Connections,” will soon be accompa-nied by music videos.
Alexander Klausner, who plays drums for 
Savants of Soul, once brieﬂ  y met Bradley when the band opened for him at a show. Klausner remembers the late singer’s kindness, and how it did not mirror the hardship and experience embodied in his three recorded albums.
“The music Charles and his band made is 
stuff that we aspire to make. To have opened for him, and now to be the headliner for a 
show celebrating his life, it’s really an honor,” 
Klausner said. “I really hope we do it justice. He means a lot to us.”
Also playing Sunday is Wester Joseph’s Ste-
reo Vudu. The seven members perform what they call “VuduRawk,” a rhythm-heavy com-bination of all members’ favorite sounds and inﬂ  uences.
A promoter at High Dive, who also got in 
touch with Savants of Soul about performing in the show, contacted Joseph’s band to honor Bradley with a performance.
“Mr. Bradley is a musical spirit animal to 
a lot of Gainesvillians,” Joseph said. “There’s something really hard-hitting and big-hearted about his songs. He’s raw in a way that helps you be a little bit raw, too. We’re just hoping we can conjure something that would make 
him proud on Sunday.”
The third act honoring Bradley is Idylwild, a Gainesville-based six-piece group.
Doors will open at 7 p.m. and the show will 
begin at 8 p.m. Tickets can be found at ticket-
ﬂ  y.com for $8 and at the door for $10 to $20 
based on a sliding scale.
Proceeds from tickets and door sales will go 
to local charity Hope Lodge and national char-ity All Stars Project per request of the Charles 
Bradley family and his record label, Daptone Records. Hope Lodge provides accommoda-tions for those traveling to Alachua County for 
cancer treatment, while All Stars Project pro-
vides after school music and arts programs for children in low-income communities.Soul legend Charles Bradley to be honored at High Dive
Courtesy to the Alligator
Savants of Soul will be the main performer at the tribute.
Photo by Andres Leiva
Jeff Ripple sketches at the 2014 festival.
Annual Downtown Festival and Art Show to hit Gainesville WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Earn Three Credits in Three Weeks
This winter break, consider taking online courses at the 
University of South Florida.
Students who are currently enrolled at another Florida 
public college or university—known as transient students—are welcome to apply for accelerated Winter 
Session courses and transfer credit you earn back to your 
home university. No prerequisites are required, and all 
majors are accepted.
CATCH UP , GET AHEAD:
• Get one step closer to graduation
• Reduce your course load for the spring semester
• Stay on track to graduate
• Complete an elective or required course
• Learn anytime, anywhere with fully online courses
SESSION DATES:
Dec. 11, 2017
-Jan. 4, 2018
winter.usf.edu/uf
Winter
Session
Winter
Session
REGISTRATION DEADLINE:Dec. 12, 2017
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Contributor
On Oct. 27 I had the pleasure of attending 
the Florida Players’ production of “Raised In 
Captivity” at the Phillips Performing Arts Cen-ter.
 “Raised In Captivity,” by playwright Nicky 
Silver, explores themes of family, love, rela-tionship challenges and psychological deterio-
ration. From a dysfunctional family comes two 
siblings, Bernadette and Sebastian, who deal 
with emotional turmoil and confusion through-out their entire lives. The two siblings meet for 
the ﬁ  rst time in years at their mother’s funeral. Bernadette craves her husband, Kip’s, approv-
al of her body as well as the knowledge that 
Sebastian’s life is not perfect so she can justify her unstable marriage and way of life. Sebas-
tian’s life is far from perfect — a strained past 
with his mother affects every relationship he’s 
ever had with another man. Sebastian even 
claims that he cannot remember the last time 
he felt something for someone.
Nicky Silver’s warped, dark sense of humor 
acts as a nice topping to the angst and struggles of these characters’ journeys throughout the 
story. Silver shows us that despite pain, confu-
sion, love and laughter one can always ﬁ  nd a silver lining.This cast brought to life a series of charac-
ters who possess tragic ﬂ  aws and deal with 
internal destruction. It was a nice ensemble of people who seemed to genuinely care about 
their work and make discoveries through-out the show. Even so, I felt that we couldn’t 
physically see the transition from text to stage 
within terms of character development. At 
times I felt the entirety of the cast missed the 
point of the play, which was to show that life is nothing without a mess. They played into 
the pity rather than utilizing humor as a coping mechanism.
However, there were characters and mo-
ments that stood out. Trevor Spence, a UF freshman theatre major, captured my attention 
in his great portrayal of Sebastian Bliss. His 
work was fresh and believable, and he grasped 
the message quite well without overacting. I 
must also applaud the great climactic dynamic 
between Riley Shea who plays Bernadette Dix-on and Spence who plays Sebastian. There was 
good exploration of the relationship toward 
the end of Act II with an intense scene during 
which they decide to raise Bernadette’s child 
together. Shea had great moments of stillness, empowerment and discovery. The two actors 
succeeded in the two most important jobs of 
an actor: listening and responding while feed-
ing off of one another’s energy.The direction, blocking and concept of the 
show was symbolic, organic and nicely ex-ecuted thanks to director Raul Duran and stage choreographer Tiza Garland. Duran’s visual 
concept for the story was carried through the blocking with a great sense of humor simply 
through physical movement.
The actors didn’t always use the space to 
their advantage. They would cluster or go very 
far upstage during a monologue making it slightly difﬁ  cult for audience members sitting 
in the back to see. However, the diversity in blocking and movement communicated the 
characters’ intentions well.
One particular blocking choice I loved was 
in a scene in Act II in which Sebastian’s men-
tally unstable therapist, Dr. Hillary Macmahan, 
played by Kelsey Cote, goes blind and stays 
with Sebastian, Bernadette and Kip. Hillary, 
who has an unhealthy obsession with her 
patient, is speaking to Sebastian. He does not realize she is blind until she starts talking to 
a wall instead of him. Upon this realization, 
Spence made great choices such as waving his 
hands in front of Hillary’s face, dancing around 
her and ﬂ  ailing about to ensure that he can exit without her knowing. This blocking created 
great situational irony.
The technical aspects of “Raised In Captiv-
ity” also went well with the overall concept be-cause they were minimalistic yet contributed 
to the ﬂ  ow of the show. In terms of lighting 
design, there was nice use of color and mix-ture of wash. However, I wonder if the natu-
ral stage lighting during more casual scenes could’ve been brighter. During some instances 
it was difﬁ  cult to see the actors and generally a 
broader range of light would be sufﬁ  cient.
The set design was a perfect ﬁ  t for the 
concept because it was also minimalistic. For example, the actors used the same furniture 
in mostly the same locations on the stage to represent different locations in the real world. 
The costume design was well thought out and 
a perfect ﬁ  t for each character. One costume that stood out was Hillary’s white button-
down shirt, black sweater and long skirt. Her 
costume was symbolic; she dresses modestly 
and professionally, which is paradoxical to her 
inner desires for Sebastian and Kip.
Overall, the Florida Players’ production of 
“Raised In Captivity” presented a good produc-tion concept that communicated themes of the 
importance of family bonds and that relation-
ships are crucial in coping with difﬁ  cult cir-
cumstances.
For those interested in seeing more by the 
Florida Players, the group will perform “All My Sons” on Nov. 10, 11 and 12. Tickets are free 
and can be reserved at ﬂ  oridaplayers.net. Review:   The Florida   Players  present ‘Raised In Captivity’    10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Electronic indie band Retrolux 
will release their highly anticipated 
second extended play titled “Op-
tics,” and perform alongside special 
guests DVWEZ and King Complex 
at The Atlantic this Thursday.
Local electronic duo Anna James 
and Maynard Shaye created Retro-
lux, a pulsing indie band constantly 
creating dreamy, nostalgic electron-ica.  They’ve been compared to the 
indie band CHVRCHES, according 
to their website.  
Kelsie Walker, a 20-year-old UF 
marketing sophomore, works for Swamp Records, the student-run record label that signed Retrolux. 
Walker said Retrolux brings an el-
ement of electronic music that she 
thinks Gainesville is missing.
“EDM music is becoming such a 
massive genre with massive follow-
ings, and Retrolux has been able to 
bring some of that here,” Walker 
said. “I have seen them multiple times, and I always love hearing 
them live. Simply, it’s really good 
music.”
Retrolux signed with Swamp 
Records in the middle of 2016, and they’ve quickly built a loyal fan-base since the release of their 
ﬁ  rst extended play, “Real Life,” in 
March 2017. There’s also a sense of 
satisfaction while listening to their 
music, knowing the duo met and started in Gainesville.
“I do personally get a lot of pride 
from seeing them perform because everyone at Swamp Records has seen them from the beginning,” 
said Walker. “Speciﬁ  cally their 
team has seen the hard work that the duo has put in and it’s incred-ible to have such good music close 
to home.”
Gabriella Alzola, a 19-year-old 
UF public relations sophomore, 
also works for Swamp Records. 
From helping the band set up for 
their shows, she knows ﬁ  rsthand how dedicated Retrolux is when it 
comes to their fans and music.
“It’s awesome watching them 
grow as artists and develop a larger 
fan base,” said Alzola. “It’s such a great feeling knowing that we get to 
help them do what they’re so pas-
sionate about.”
Working in the music industry, 
Alzola isn’t surprised that Retro-lux is becoming one of the many successful up-and-coming bands that have gotten their start in 
Gainesville.
“The music scene in Gainesville 
is very versatile but deﬁ  nitely thriv-ing,” said Alzola. “There are always 
different events going on through-
out the week, so there is pretty 
much something for everyone.”
Alzola said she hopes fans of the 
band enjoy Thursday’s show, and that those who haven’t heard of the band become fans and leave the 
venue wanting to hear more.
Walker said that while she’s 
most excited to hear the music, 
she’s also excited for the outﬁ  ts, as 
Retrolux is always very stylish.
“Each person has their own ex-
perience at concerts, which is so personal, so I suggest coming with 
no expectations except to have 
a good time, and it won’t disap-
point,” said Walker.
The 18-and-over Retrolux EP 
Release at The Atlantic starts at 9 p.m. and ends at 1 a.m. Tickets are on sale for $7 on showclix.com and 
$10 at the door. Retrolux to host EP release 
concert at The Atlantic
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Although the holidays are nearly 
upon us, it’s always the right time 
for a good block party in Florida.
Local production company Over 
Easy Creative plans to do just that this Sunday with their Sunday Side 
Up Block Party, a three-venue, three-stage event that will draw 
electronic artists from across Flor-
ida to perform. The party will run from 5 p.m. to 2 a.m. at downtown venues The Atlantic, Arcade Bar 
and The Alley, located behind Ar-
cade Bar. 
This is the second edition of the 
block party concept for Over Easy; they held their ﬁ  rst block party 
around a year and a half ago at 
the same three-venue location. Les Voss, creator of Over Easy Creative 
and one of the event’s performers, 
said the event went great the ﬁ  rst time, which inspired them to put 
Sunday’s event together.
The Sunday Side Up Block Party 
will feature 10 artists from various 
genres and locations, with X3SR of 
Miami headlining at The Atlantic. 
Voss said he was drawn to X3SR af-
ter hearing them perform at Gaines-
ville’s ﬁ  rst Road To III Points event held in August 2015. He described 
the band, which is composed of 
two brothers, as sounding similar to ambient, downtempo producer 
Tycho.
“I instantly fell in love with their 
music because it’s kind of washed out but very emotional,” Voss said. 
“It’s very electronic but they’ve got a lot going on, and they’re such cool dudes.”
Voss added that in addition to their compelling sound, the duo behind X3SR is composed of genu-
ine people that he’s excited to have 
back in Gainesville.
“A lot of times with music it’s 
not always about going to get paid for a show,” he said. “They want to come to hangout and vibe with 
friends that they’ve made through 
the music scene.”
Voss added that he’s also look-
ing forward to Crosstown Sounds, a ﬁ  ve or six-man music collective that will play an extended set at 
The Atlantic from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
He’s also excited for Kelly Kochis and Tyler Hale who will be playing 
all-vinyl sets on the top ﬂ  oor of Ar-
cade Bar.
“Kelly is really someone that 
I’ve looked up to as a DJ for so long, and she’s got records on records on records,” Voss said. 
“Some of the tunes she pulls out, you’re like, ‘Wow, where did you 
even ﬁ  nd this?’”
In addition to a wide array of 
artists, the three-venue, three-stage setup will allow for unique atmo-
spheres all at one event. 
Voss said that the third ﬂ  oor of 
Arcade Bar will be more vintage with all-vinyl performers, The Al-
ley is going to be “more bumping party music” (mostly house music), 
and The Atlantic will host the more 
unique electronic groups Cross-town Sounds and headliner X3SR.
The Sunday Side Up Block Party 
will be ages 18 and older at The At-lantic and 21 and older at Arcade 
Bar and The Alley. Tickets will be 
available at the door for $5 for 21 years and older and $7 for young-
er than 21. The cost will move up 
to $7 for 21 and older and $10 for younger than 21 as the event ﬁ  lls 
up. Over Easy Creative to host 
Sunday Side Up Block PartyBy Gabriella Paul
Avenue Contributor
The funk-ﬂ  avored, rock/soul 
group Holey Miss Moley will have 
its ﬁ  rst appearance at First Magni-tude Brewing Company on Nov. 10 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for $5 per person at the door.  
“It’s a bigger band than we usu-
ally get for a place like this,” Simon McClung, the marketing coordina-
tor for First Magnitude, said. “So 
this is a chance for this crowd to spend $5 and see an incredible band, which is just an awesome 
opportunity in a really laidback at-
mosphere.”
McClung, 27, said you would 
normally have to pay more than 
$40 to see this band play in a show 
or festival alongside other groups.
The ten-piece group has col-
laborated together since 2012, per-
forming in over 450 notable shows in the past ﬁ  ve years. Their high-
energy sound is reminiscent of old school ’70s funk, according to the 
band’s website.
“Everyone is bringing a differ-
ent vibe to the table and it’s just, like, really good energy, which is 
totally our crowd, one to hang out 
and move to something that’s posi-tive,” said McClung.
The group originated in cen-
tral Florida under creators Ken-
neth Harvey and Jacob Cox, but 
now they’re trying to get into Gainesville’s music market, as 
well. 
Kenneth “Bonesaw” Harvey, 
bass guitarist and manager for the 
group, said they’re trying to in-crease their ticket market value, 
get attendance records up and es-
tablish a local fan base.
“Yeah, it’s my ﬁ  rst time there,” 
Harvey said. “I’m super stoked to 
play there.”
Harvey said they’ve built a re-
lationship with First Magnitude and they have already made plans to return if all goes well Friday. He added that the group draws a younger crowd that likes funk and loves to move. 
“Oh, that’s what we do, we play 
dance music,” Harvey said. “Just, 
you know, in your face funk — we 
like to bring the energy.”
Catt Awanatu Tuwa, a 23-year-
old studio art sophomore at Florida School of the Arts, is traveling from 
St. Augustine Beach to Gainesville 
for the show.
“I’m there for the funk and 
vibe,” Awanatu Tuwa said. “It’s 
going to be a huge turnout; I know 
it.”
Awanatu Tuwa said she has fre-
quently attended First Magnitude 
events in the past, but is especially 
excited for this Friday. She follows 
Holey Miss Moley’s live sets on YouTube, but she said she has yet to see them in person.
“Every time they play they 
sound a little bit different,” Awa-natu Tuwa said. “They’re going to kill it.”Holey Miss Moley to perform at First Magnitude on Friday 
MUSIC
Couresty to The Alligator
This will be the band’s ﬁ  rst appearance at First Magnitude.
Courtesy to The Alligator
The block party will feature three stages and various artists from across genres. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
Queen-size hide-a-bed sofa, salmon color, 
good shape $250; 2 living room chairs, mauve, swivel $50/ea; used wooden student desk, mahogany color, 62x23x30" w/7 draw-ers $100; black desk chair on rollers $25. Call Ron 352-843-8998    11-8-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-
mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
JOB FAIR! Nov 7-8, 2-4pm
GAOTR BTW - G'ville's newest premier din-
ing experience - Burgers + Tacos + Wings. 
1404 W University Ave. Across from Gator 
Wesley Foundation. For more info: 352-362-
9677, nickhurricanebtw@gmail.com    11-8-
14-3-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14CERTIFIED PART TIMELIFE GUARDS NEEDEDThe 300 Club Tennis and SwimConveniently located to campus    11-8-17-3-14
Oak Hall School hiring for 2018-19
Academic Dean(PreSchool-12 th grade) and 
Head of Lower School (PreSchool-Grade 5) 
Respond to: tedling@schoolstrat.com    11-
13-17-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       11-17-17-6-14
PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place
Experience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 
352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience 
preferred. Must have director's credential. 
Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. MEDICAL: What is a more com-
mon name for hypobaropathy?
2. MYTHOLOGY: What area of life 
did the Greek goddess Hygeia preside 
over?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was 
president when Vice President Alben 
Barkley was in office?
4. PSYCHOLOGY: What are peo-
ple who suffer from ophidiophobia 
afraid of?
5. MUSIC: What was the stage name 
of the 1950s rocker who was born Charles Hardin Holley?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What is generally 
considered the world’s longest river?
7. MONEY: What is the basic cur -
rency of Argentina?
8. MOVIES: What is the name of 
the royal lemur in the animated movie “Madagascar”?
9. LITERATURE: Who was the 
author of “The Blind Assassin,” which won the Man Booker Prize in 2000?
10. ANATOMY: About how many 
times does the average person blink in a minute?
Answers
1. Altitude sickness2. Goddess of health
3. Harry Truman
4. Snakes5. Buddy Holly6. The Amazon River, at 4,300 miles7. The peso8. King Julien9. Margaret Atwood10. 15-20 times
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 6, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACROSS
1 “That cracks me
up!”
5 “__ and the
Swan”: Rubens
painting
9 Paper Mate
product
12 1936 Olympics
standout
14 Goes it alone
15 “Te __”: Rihanna
song
16 *Golfer’s guide
for measuring
distances
18 Playful bite
19 House vote
20 Like much store-
brandmerchandise
21 Contact lens
solution brand
22 Soft boot material24 Winner’s wreath
26 Church seating
28 *Philatelist’s find
31 On __ of: for
34 Family guys35 Overhead
expanse
36 Superhero in an
armored suit
38 Place for a hot
stone massage
41 “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” novelist
42 Became clear to,
with “on”
44 *Hybrid retriever
48 Tough to learn
49 “Finally!”50 One of his stories
is the source ofthe “sour grapes”idiom
53 Relax in the tub54 Sonny and Cher,
e.g.
57 Sulu portrayer
John
60 Kin of net
61 *Winter warming
spell
63 Fla. neighbor
64 Athlete’s rep
65 Facebook option
66 Mario Bros.
console letters
67 Exercise break
68 Casino
conveniences
DOWN
1 Georgetown
hoopster
2 On the road3 “These are the
reasons”
4 “Go on ... “
5 Place for a hoop6 Musk of Tesla
Motors
7 Kid’s drawing
tablet
8 Pose a question9 Bakery-café
chain
10 “8 Mile” rapper11 Orange juice
specification
13 Customer-
drawing signword
14 Waste conduit
17 Supreme being
21 Road grooves
23 “Miracle on Ice”
team, for short
25 Yoga position26 “Masterpiece”
network
27 “There’s a
mouse in ourhouse!”
29 Sleep study
subject
30 Ewe guy
32 Low-calorie
brews
33 Place for big
headlines
37 Hooting bird38 Popular mobile
app ... and, as
shown by circles,what the inner
parts of the
answers tostarred clues do
39 __ capita40 Mix in41 Badlands Natl.
Park site
43 Detective’s
question
44 Garage container45 1962 Lawrence
portrayer
46 Peruvian pack
animals
47 Not skilled in51 Lux. setting52 Tofu beans
55 Change for a five
56 Fourth-down play58 Inflict pain on59 Is in arrears61 Cookie container62 Article in some
hip-hop titles
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/08/1711/08/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 8, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Like dorms for
both men and
women
5 Military sch.
9 Fall in folds
14 Chomp15 Swimmer’s path
16 More cold and
wet, weatherwise
17 Serb or Croat
18 “Liberal” pursuits19 Can’t stop loving20 Three Stooges
movie, e.g.
23 Michigan or
Mead
24 Update from a
pilot, for short
25 Induction 
cooktop
alternative
33 Double-reed
woodwinds
34 “What did you
say?”
35 Key with one
sharp: Abbr.
36 Light brown
37 Driver’s license
test
41 Post-OR area42 Three-pronged
Greek letters
44 Buffet table
coffee server
45 River mammal
47 Fluffy dessert
51 Eisenhower’s
nickname
52 Hip ’60s Brits53 Eco-friendly
request ... and ahint to sorting outthe aptly circledletters
59 Vonnegut literary
device
60 Enterprise
captain born
3/22/2233
61 Puts on TV
63 Low card64 Lawn border65 Finger or toe 
part
66 Chose (to)67 Evidence of
ownership
68 Community org.
known by its firstletterDOWN
1 “Kevin Can Wait”
network
2 Lubricates
3 Bibliography list
shortener: Abbr.
4 Reduce
monetarily
5 Denali National
Park state
6 Price-fixing
syndicate
7 Against8 Fam. tree member9 NFL player
selection events
10 Give off11 GI on the run12 Curly salon job13 Before, in verse21 Analyze
grammatically
22 One-named “We
R Who We R”singer
25 Offensive to
some, for short
26 Embarrass27 “Pagliacci” clown28 Treaty of __: War
of 1812 ender
29 “La Cage __
Folles”
30 Fails to include31 Bad habits
32 Accustom (to)
38 Winter holidays39 __ of Good
Feelings
40 In a funk43 Bill Nye’s field46 Florence’s region48 Approved49 Come to light50 Made fun of53 Practice for the
GMAT, e.g.54 Ill-mannered 
sort
55 Struggled to
make, with “out”
56 Taxi trip
57 Neeson of
“Kinsey”
58 Idle of Monty
Python
59 Wedding vow
words
62 Patty Hearst’s
abductors: Abbr.
By Andrew Sand
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/07/1711/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Corner ____
1.  Sugar ____5.  Apple ____
2.  Rhythm 6.  Whinny
3.  Preceding7.  Close
4.  Tremendously KTCPEO
KATCPERIDCE
HGNIE
NCCAEDE
RAEREILRBNAYE
GIYLHHANSWERS: 1A-Pocket  5A-Cider  6A-Neigh  7A-Nearby
1D-Packet  2D-Cadence  3D-Earlier  4D-Highly  B-Dick Clark11-8-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “If you want to stay young-
looking, pick your parents very carefully.”
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Former Florida guard Bradley 
Beal  has been making an 
impact for the Wizards through 
the first three weeks of the 
NBA season. Read about Beal 
and other former Gators, pg. 15.Del Rio calls out fans for conduct on social media
UF quarterback Luke Del Rio  critized Gators fans on Tuesday night for 
posting hurtful comments and threats on teammate  Feleipe Franks' 
Instagram account. "Be better Gator Nation, " Del Rio posted on Twitter.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
 
As interim coach Randy Shannon 
ended Florida’s practice Tuesday 
and walked to the south end zone 
of UF’s indoor practice facility, he 
made one request.
“I just don’t want to keep talking 
about Missouri,” Shannon said.
Maybe he wanted to forget 
about the final score from that game, a 45-16 loss on Saturday, 
one in which the Gators’ offensive 
ineptitude continued and its effort 
— by Shannon’s own admission — 
needed to be better.
Maybe it was because of Shan -
non’s one-track mindset, insisting 
that he is only focused on Florida’s 
next game and not on landing a job 
after this season.
Or maybe he was just so focused 
on his team having a better perfor -mance against South Carolina this 
weekend than it did against Mis -
souri that he wants to eliminate any 
distractions from creeping into the 
Gators’ focus.
Whatever the reason, Shannon 
made one thing clear on Tuesday: 
When the Gators (3-5, 3-4 SEC) play 
the Gamecocks (6-3, 4-3 SEC) on 
Saturday, he wants to see major im -
provement.
Meeting with reporters for the fi -nal time before the Gators play, here 
are three things he stressed:
 
Zaire needs to be better:
Malik Zaire, Florida’s graduate 
transfer quarterback who replaced 
redshirt freshman Feleipe Franks 
against Missouri, completed 13 of 
his 19 passes for 158 yards, one in -
terception and no touchdowns.
On Tuesday, Shannon said he 
needs to play better.“He did a nice job,” Shannon 
said, “but now he’s got to do a great 
job.”
The interim coach stressed that 
he wants to see Zaire string together 
multiple drives in which he moves 
the offense down the field instead of 
one good drive followed by a pair of 
three-and-outs.
Zaire led 10 drives against the 
Tigers resulting in five punts, one Three things Shannon wants to change before South Carolina
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
 
Nobody who had ever seen a soccer match 
would mistake young Samantha Chung for a 
great player. She wasn’t even average.
“I was the worst player on the field,” 
Samantha said.
“I would run away from the ball. 
Every time it would come near me, 
I would just run the other way. I 
was just like, ‘No way, I don’t 
wanna do that.’”
Between the ages of 9 
and 14, Samantha never 
started for her club 
teams.
“I was terrible,” she 
said.
Now a 20-year-old junior 
midfielder at UF, Chung 
will play in her third NCAA 
Tournament on Friday when the 
Gators take on South Alabama. But her 
journey here wasn't without suffering. 
A tough-love father who benched her 
in one of the biggest games of her life, a 
mother who endured two strokes and a 
younger sister with autism all impacted 
Samantha on her way from being terrified 
by incoming soccer balls to playing key 
minutes off the bench for a top-20 program. 
Samantha said her mentality, coupled 
with her family urging her to excel, made 
the difference.
“Friendly competition kind of helped me 
to get to where I am now,” Samantha said. “I 
want this, so I’m going to get it.”
 
“I just wanted him to come home.”
 
Samantha Chung’s 
father, Mark, took 
a measured pause 
before answering his 
daughter’s claim that 
she was terrible. 
“I wouldn’t say she was the best player on the team,” Mark said. 
“But she was hardworking.”
Mark would know. Between 1992 and 1998, 
he was a member of the United States men’s 
national team. He played in 24 matches for the 
Stars and Stripes, scoring twice. He also played 
Major League Soccer for 10 years, scoring 65 
goals and assisting on 80 more in 310 games.
He was a first-round pick in the inaugural 
MLS Draft for Kansas City. He was voted to the 
MLS Best XI — an annual list reserved for the 
best 11 players in the league — three times in 
his career, cementing his status as one of the 
greatest midfielders of his era.
All this is to say, Mark didn’t always have 
time for his family.
“That was one of the reasons I retired,” Mark 
said. “I was constantly away, and it was difficult 
to be around them and to help them.”
As a kid, Samantha didn't know her father 
was one of the greatest American players of his 
time. She did, however, resent what came with 
his fame.
“I just didn’t like when people came up 
to him and stuff like that,” Samantha said. “I 
would get weirded out, but then I just wanted 
him to come home.”
Mark and his family moved to South Florida 
when Samantha was 9, and she started playing 
youth soccer for Boca United FC. 
Her father's newfound stability helped her. 
Mark would take her to Loggers' Run Park 
in Boca Raton to train. He pushed her to join 
random pickup games. Mark said it took years 
to develop her shot in practice. 
 
“I’ve learned grit.”
 
When Samantha was 15, Boca United went 
to Phoenix to play in a tournament. By this time, 
Mark was coaching his daughter’s team.
In the finals matchup, the referees weren't 
giving her the calls she wanted.
“Samantha was throwing her hands up,” 
Mark said. “She was very frustrated. She was 
upset with herself, upset with her teammates.”
Mark took Samantha off the field after 15 
minutes. She never made it back on.“That night, there was a lot of crying in 
the stairwell,” Mark said. “She was saying she 
wanted to quit soccer.”
Samantha didn’t speak to her father for three 
days after the match. Nor did his wife. 
But Mark, a former pro, knew that you can’t 
become a competitor without managing your 
emotions on the field.
The rest of her family also guided Samantha 
through her growing pains. Her sisters, Daniella 
and Gabrielle, and her mother, Jennifer, all helped.
Daniella is following in her older sister’s foot -
steps by playing with Boca United. Samantha 
helps coach her sister’s team on occasion and 
said it has helped her as a player.
“It made me realize how hard it is for the 
coaches,” Samantha said. 
But for all the lessons Samantha taught her 
sister’s team, coaching her sibling has taught her 
a few lessons as well.
“I’ve learned grit, something I didn’t have,” 
Samantha said. “Fight. She’s feisty, but she’s an 
extremely talented player. She works hard, and 
that’s what I take from her is that grit.”
When the subject shifted to her mother, 
Samantha was hesitant to discuss the details. 
She shifted slightly in her seat and strained to 
find the right words. 
"My mom has gone through a tough time," 
she began. "She's a really strong woman."
Jennifer was a high school athlete as well. 
She played softball before pursuing a career in 
teaching. She has suffered two strokes in her 
lifetime but has completely recovered from 
each. Samantha says her mother’s strokes were 
caused by a patent foramen ovale — a hole in 
her heart.
“The doctors were like, ‘How does that hap -
pen?’” Samantha said. “She had a tough time 
taking care of Gabi, but I look up to her. She’s 
definitely my role model.” 
Gabrielle, Samantha’s 19-year-old sister, 
is autistic. Mark said she deals with social, 
academic and physical issues because of her 
condition, but she’s able to manage them all. He 
remembers Gabrielle needing to set aside time 
to work out, often running 90 minutes at a time Fueled by family, UF midfielder Samantha Chung thrivesFlorida  South Alabama
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16GATORS START 
NCAA TOURNAMENT
AT 6 P .M FRIDAYWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
Former Florida Gator Bradley Beal’s big-
gest moment so far this season came with the 
clock stopped. On Oct. 27, whistles sounded as players and referees charged toward the action 
underneath the basket.
Beal, now with the Washington Wizards, 
had just wrapped his arm around the back of Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green’s neck and pulled him to the ground. 
The two wrestled until they were separated by 
teammates. Green emerged with his jersey torn almost completely down the side.
The fight started after Green swatted away 
Beal’s layup attempt. Both players were eject-ed from the game and later fined, with Beal 
paying $50,000.
Beal responded with a four-game scoring 
frenzy, averaging over 32 points, including a 40-point performance against Phoenix.
Beal is currently a top-10 scorer in the 
league and has converted on more than half of his field-goal attempts. While the Wizards 
have lost five of their last seven games, Beal and teammate John Wall remain a serious 
threat to defenses around the league.
Apart from Beal, here’s how other former 
Gators have performed through an exciting three weeks of the NBA’s regular season.
The Boston Celtics, also contenders in the 
Eastern Conference, are on a nine-game win streak after an 0-2 start to the season. Al Hor-
ford has played a significant role in the team’s success. Through 11 games, Horford is the 
Celtics’ leading rebounder and has recorded 
four double-doubles. In a comeback win Fri-day against Oklahoma City, he scored 20 points and converted on all four of his three-point at-
tempts, one of which gave Boston its first lead 
following an 18-point deficit. The Celtics (9-2)  have the best record in the East.
Chandler Parsons has returned for his sec-
ond season with the Memphis Grizzlies. While 
injuries remain a concern, he entered Tuesday 
averaging over eight points per game. In an Oct. 28 win over the Houston Rockets, Parsons 
scored 24 points on 9-of-11 shooting in just 19 
minutes of play. Less than a month into the season, the Grizzlies have proven to be a threat 
in a highly competitive Western Conference.
In his 10th season in the NBA, and first with 
the Magic, Marreese Speights is proving to be valuable to a much-improved Orlando team. 
So far, he has posted double-figure points in an Oct. 21 upset over the Cleveland Cavaliers 
and in an Oct. 30 win over the New Orleans 
Pelicans.
Corey Brewer, a veteran on a young Los 
Angeles Lakers roster, has been limited to a career-low 1.8 points per game. After starting at small forward in their second game of the 
season, Brewer has settled into his role coming 
off the bench.
In Dallas, Dorian Finney-Smith is bat-
tling a knee injury in his second season in the league. He has only played in five of Dallas’ first 11 games. In his second contest of the 
year, Finney-Smith scored 14 points on 5-of-6 
shooting in a loss to Sacramento on Oct. 20.
Former Gators yet to play this season in-
clude Udonis Haslem and Joakim Noah. In 
Haslem’s 15th season with the Heat, he has settled into a leadership role off the court and 
will likely see limited minutes as the year pro-
gresses.
Noah was suspended before the season be-
gan for a violation of the NBA’s drug policy. He is eligible to return on Nov. 13 when the New York Knicks take on the Cavaliers.
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgBeal’s brawl and more: An early-season report on UF pros
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Nine weeks into the NFL sea-
son, several former Gators are 
having success at the professional level:
After bouncing around the 
league for several years, running back Mike Gillislee has estab-lished himself as a credible goal-line threat for the New England Patriots. Gillislee had a breakout performance in the team’s open-ing game, scoring three touch-downs in a loss to Kansas City.
After finding the end zone 
again the following week, Gil-lislee has slowed down a bit, fail-ing to score in his last six games. However, he has still been New England’s go-to running back, leading the team in attempts, yards and touchdowns.
Rookies making an impact 
on defense:
On the defensive side of the 
ball, safety Marcus Maye has been a consistent performer for the surprising New York Jets. Maye, a second-round pick in this year’s draft, is tied for the team lead with two interceptions and is third in tackles with 45.
Cornerbacks Quincy Wilson 
and Teez Tabor were also selected in the second round of this year’s draft. After playing in the Colts’ first two games, Wilson missed time with an injury and hasn’t played despite being healthy the last two weeks. Tabor, on the other hand, has seen his playing time increase as of late. After not playing for the first three weeks, he’s seen the field in three of the Lions’ last five games, finally re-cording his first tackle against Green Bay on Monday night.
Tabor was reunited in Detroit 
with former teammate Jarrad Davis, who was the only Florida player selected in the first round of the 2017 draft. Davis, a line-backer, has seen consistent play-ing time this year, despite missing a couple weeks with a neck and head injury. Davis had a big game in Week 2 against the New York Giants, registering six tackles and one sack. He is tied for second on the Lions with 41 tackles.Veteran defensive ends 
coming up big:
In his third NFL season, defen-
sive end Dante Fowler has had a bounce-back year for the Jaguars. After missing his entire rookie season with a torn ACL and only starting one game last year, Fowl-er has become a key contributor in a Jacksonville defense that has given up just 14.6 points per game, the best mark in the NFL.
With 5.5 sacks, Fowler has al-
ready eclipsed his total from last year and ranks third on the team in that category. Fowler has also forced two fumbles and has one fumble recovery that he took 53 yards to the end zone in Week 1.
Carlos Dunlap, now in his 
eighth season with the Cincin-nati Bengals, is having another solid campaign at defensive end. The two-time Pro Bowler has two sacks to go along with his 22 tackles and has forced one fum-ble. His pick-six in Week 8 earned him AFC Defensive Player of the Week honors for the third time in his career.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
Gillislee, defensive rookies having noteworthy seasonsGATORS IN THE NFLGATORS IN THE NBA
The Associated Press
Former UF guard Bradley Beal (left), now playing for the Washington Wizards, was fined $50,000 for a fight with Golden State forward Draymond Green on Oct. 27. 
The Associated Press
After scoring four touchdowns over a two-week span, Mike Gillislee has failed to reach the end zone in his past six games.
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2017
fumble, one interception and three field goals. 
None of them ended in a touchdown.
“His overall game (needs to improve),” 
Shannon said. “He’s got to be consistent.”
 
Florida’s slow starts have to stop:
Redshirt seniors Marcell Harris, Nick Wash -
ington and Jordan Sherit were the clear leaders 
of the Gators.
All of them sustained season-ending or 
long-term injuries.
“I don’t make excuses,” Shannon said, “... but we don’t have any veterans right now.”
Of the 23 starters on Florida’s depth chart, 
13 of them are underclassmen. And when 
asked to give a reason for Florida’s slow starts 
in games this season, both on offense and de -
fense, Shannon pointed to UF’s lack of experi -
ence.
“Early in the year when we had a lot of 
veterans on this team, we were starting fast,” 
Shannon said. “Right now, we’re counting and 
depending on these young guys to crank it up 
a little bit.”
Florida hasn’t scored on its opening drive 
since Sept. 16 against Tennessee, and it hasn’t scored a touchdown on its opening drive all 
season.
To Shannon, that represents a glaring prob -
lem that needs to be fixed by Saturday.
“Don’t make any excuses because you’re 
young,” Shannon said. “You’re a veteran now, 
you’ve played some games and you’re repre -
senting the Gators.”
 
Penalties need to be curbed:
Offensive lineman Martez Ivey and Jawaan 
Taylor both committed penalties against Mis -
souri, including holding calls and false starts.
So Shannon benched them.
“That’s unacceptable,” Shannon said. 
“You’re in the red zone and those things hap -
pen, that’s on you.”In total, Florida committed 11 penalties for 
84 yards against Missouri, a couple of which 
negated big plays on offense. 
During the second quarter, a 40-yard pass 
from Zaire to receiver Tyrie Cleveland was 
brought back because of a holding penalty by 
Ivey. In the third quarter, on third-and-goal 
from Missouri’s 6-yard line, a false start by 
Taylor forced the Gators into a third-and-long.
As a result, Florida has spent more time on 
getting its snap-count timing right in practice 
this week, Shannon said. 
“If you’re not fast enough or athletically 
you’re just not good enough, OK, we can ac -
cept those things,” the coach said. “But if (it 
is a) mental part of the game, that’s unaccept -
able.”
 on a treadmill.
Despite the setbacks, Gabrielle is 
also a brown belt in karate. She and 
Samantha bond over martial arts on 
occasion. 
“Sometimes we get into fights, and 
she teaches me some moves,” Saman -
tha said. “It scares me sometimes.” 
Their fights are lighthearted, joking 
most of the time. If they argue about 
anything, Samantha said it’s usually 
over “something stupid.” 
“But we always get along,” Saman -
tha said. “We’re pretty close now that I 
left for college.”
Samantha has a blue puzzle piece, 
a symbol for autism, tattooed on her 
ankle to remind her of Gabrielle’s 
strength.
“Through all that (Gabrielle) has, 
she keeps going,” Mark said. He said 
that’s why Samantha looks up to her.
Mark said one of his proudest mo -
ments coaching his daughter came a 
couple years after Samantha’s melt -
down in Phoenix. In the finals of the 
Florida State Cup, the highest youth 
competition on the state level, Saman -
tha’s team was down 3-0 in the final 15 
minutes of the match.“Samantha was the last player on 
the field to keep running and fighting 
and tackling,” Mark said. “She didn’t 
have to do this. The rest of the team 
had given up; this game was done. But 
she would not stop playing.”
 
“The last person she has left to 
please is herself.”
 
Around the time of Samantha’s 
Florida State Cup match, UF assistant 
coach Vic Campbell was already scout -
ing her. However, according to Sa -
mantha, her change in attitude wasn’t 
enough for him. She said Campbell 
told her she wasn’t mentally ready for 
the national stage. 
Though she took an official visit 
to UCF, she was verbally committed 
to attend USF on a soccer scholarship 
and follow in her father’s footsteps as 
a Bull. But Campbell’s words always 
stuck with Samantha.
“I thank him every day for that be -
cause he pushed me to get better,” Sa -
mantha said. Campbell watched nearly 
every game she played in high school. 
About a month after her verbal com -
mitment, Samantha received an offer 
from UF, but she declined.
In October of her senior year, a sec -
ond offer from UF came. This time, she 
decommitted from USF and accepted 
UF’s offer on the same day. 
Though Mark said her choice was a difficult one, he was excited to see her 
thrive through competition.
“She was really wanting that fight,” 
Mark said. “She was going to go after 
being a starter, working hard to be that 
type of player at UF.”
Mark said the most important thing 
he tells his daughter is that he’s proud 
of how far she’s come, from running 
away from soccer balls and getting 
pulled out of a match to never giving 
up late in a blowout and playing for a 
top-20 team.
“I always try to tell her that you’ve 
already surpassed anything that I 
thought,” Mark said. “The last person 
she has left to please is herself.”
Samantha still isn’t satisfied. After 
she graduates from UF, she wants to 
sign with the Orlando Pride and play 
professionally.
Samantha said she couldn’t have 
gotten this far without her family’s 
help. The combination of her father’s 
hard truths, her mother’s unfortunate 
tragedies and helping her sisters thrive 
under tough circumstances shaped the 
person she is today. Samantha said her 
drive to help others serves a singular 
objective.
“Just happiness within myself,” Sa -
mantha said. “Just to be happy with 
who I am and how I play. That’s my 
ultimate goal.”
 @MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgCourtesy of UAA Communications
UF midfielder Samantha Chung has blossomed into a savvy  
soccer player with the guidance of her family. 
Gators begin NCAA Tourney Friday
Gators facing 'Cocks Saturday
FOOTBALL,  from pg 14FEATURE,  from pg 14