We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 78 TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
Gators to play at Alabama
KeVaughn Allen will lead UF into Tuscaloosa 
tonight, pg. 13
Gainesville to celebrate MLK all week
There are numerous events planned around the city, pg. 5
Local Korean restaurant reopens Monday
It added more than 20 new menu items, pg. 4Exclusive look: UF’s new building
Check out our behind-the-scenes photos from inside Joseph Hernandez Hall, pg. 8
Grace King / Alligator Staff
A group of passengers wearing heavy jackets and long pants board a Regional Transit System bus on Newell Drive on Monday evening. At the time, the temperature was already in the mid-50s and predicted to drop later that night.
TEMPERATURES 
DROPPED TO 25 DEGREES 
LAST WEEKEND.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The past weekend was the cold-
est Gainesville has experienced so 
far this winter — with temperatures dropping to 25 degrees.
Because of the un-Floridian chill, 
UF students and Gainesville resi-dents have been bundling up and staying inside. Local homeless shel-ters, St. Francis House and Grace Marketplace also activated their Cold Night Shelter programs. Ben Nelson, a meteorologist at 
the National Weather Service in Jacksonville, said even though the 
temperatures have been low, they 
are expected to rise this week and in the weeks to come.
“For the foreseeable future, 
we’re back into a warm weather pattern, so (Monday) will be the last chilly night of the stretch,” he said.
Julissa Rodriguez, 19, said when 
the temperature dropped this week-
end, she was terriﬁ  ed she wouldn’t 
have warm enough clothes to spend time outside, which she normally enjoys.
“It’s kind of hard because in 
Florida, it’s really difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd winter wear,” the UF family, youth and community sciences freshman said. “So if I can ﬁ  nd it, I’ll buy it.”
Rodriguez said she recognizes 
that homeless people in Gainesville most likely do not have the money to buy winter clothing.
“Personally, I think I’d be really 
scared to not know where I’m going to sleep and not know where to ﬁ  nd any kind of warmth,” she said. 
About 80 people without homes 
took advantage of the program this 
weekend at St. Francis House, lo-
cated at 413 S. Main St., said Kent Vann, the organization’s executive director.
The program, which was used 
three times this Fall, runs between the beginning of November and the end of March, he said. The doors are open to about 90 people each night Friday through Monday and 
to fewer Tuesday through Thurs-
day.
Due to the organization’s limited 
staff and funding, only 35 people can stay overnight during the week, mostly women and children.
“The Cold Night Shelter program 
is set up to house people and pro-tect them from the elements,” Vann 
said.
Vann, 55, said the program costs 
about $19 per person each day, 
which includes breakfast, showers and laundry. No one was turned away at St. Francis House this week-end, which prioritizes the shelter of homeless families and children over individuals.
“A third of the people in the shel-
ter on any given night are under the age of 10, usually with a single par-ent,” Vann said.
In order to run the program, 
Vann said St. Francis depends on outside grants and donations.
“The other strain is ﬁ  nancial be-
cause even though a certain amount of money is funded through the 
city, that’s a small portion of what 
we need to operate (the Cold Night Shelter),” he said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org  Cold away from home: Gainesville braces for weather
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Aside from the dust on the 
stairs and boxes piled high in the 
ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor lab, the new chemis-try building on Buckman Drive is nearly complete.
Following almost a decade of 
planning and two delays in the past year, Joseph Hernandez Hall is set to open April 21. The build-ing was constructed to help with the increasing demand for chemis-
try classes, said Jeanna Mastrodi-
casa, the associate vice president for operations with UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.The total cost to complete the 
building is about $66.5 million, said Frank Javaheri, the senior project manager. Construction alone cost $52.5 million. The rest of the money went toward other costs, including furniture, decora-tions and utilities.
Midway through Fall, workers on the 110,000 square-foot hall found a manufacturing error in lab desks. Before that, there were problems with a water leak on an upper level and too few people available to work on the building, Javaheri said.
Since 2008, more than 500 peo-
 After 2 years, 2 delays, chemistry building to open in April
SEE CHEM,  PAGE 8It will ease registration demandsWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Back To School Poster Sale at 
the Reitz Union outdoor ta-
bling areaThe Reitz Union is hosting a Back To School Poster Sale. 
Starting today until Friday, 
from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., there will be a table outside the Reitz Union featuring posters. Most posters are priced between $5 and $9. 
Learn basic Arabic at the 
Headquarters Library start-
ing in January 
Arabic for Adults will be taught at the Alachua County Headquarters Library starting Wednesday. An experienced teacher who is a native speak-er will conduct classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Wednesdays. Registration is not required. 
These classes offer adults the 
chance to learn the basics of the language. For more in-formation about library pro-grams, visit aclib.us/events or contact Nickie Kortus at 352-334-3909 or nkortus@aclib.us.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Visiting Artist Lecture Series with Arthur Ou on ThursdayThe UF School of Art + Art History is presenting artist Arthur Ou on Thursday as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series. Ou will present at 6 p.m. in the Music 
Building, Room 101. Ou works 
in photography, painting, sculpture and installation. Ou will give a lecture about con-temporary art and culture as it relates to national and in-ternational trends. For more information about the Visiting Artist Lecture Series, visit arts.
ufl.edu.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to the University Gallery 
Gainesville Cultural institutions are host-ing Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from January to March. Cuban mu-
ralists, dancers, musicians, au-
thors and academics are among those who are featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery. The 
University Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, curator of the Popular Culture Collections at Smathers Library, on Friday from noon to 1 p.m. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit 
arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21
Collectors from across the re-gion will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors dur-ing the 38th Collectors Day 
on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. This free event is the mu-seum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to interact with collectors and learn about the context and historical significance of their collections. The registration deadline to display collections 
is Saturday. For more infor-
mation on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collec-tors-day-registration or call 352-273-2061.
Free Citizenship Classes of-
fered by the Latina Women’s League
Starting Jan. 26 through 
March 9, the Latina Women’s League will be offering citi-zenship classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Thursdays at the Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. People who want to register for the classes can attend the 
first class. It is open to the 
community.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28Beginning Jan. 28, Florida Museum of Natural History visitors will be able to get up close and personal with big — 
and even poisonous — frogs 
in the museum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Showcasing various species of frogs and toads, “Frogs!” is the most advanced traveling frog exhibit in the country. Guests may view tree frogs, bullfrogs, horned frogs, 
giant toads and poison dart 
frogs. The museum will host a public opening celebration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Jan. 24 or $15 for UF students with a val-id Gator 1 Card. Late or race-
day registration is $30 or $20 
for UF students. For more in-formation or to register for the race, visit fl mnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students; $5 for children aged 3 to 17; and free to museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. The Florida Museum will display “Frogs!” through Sept. 4.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design ChallengeOn Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda Chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 
2017. During the event, Spring 
Break tips, information and giveaways, including a live SEXpert panel, will be featured. The event will also feature the Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to reg-ister yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/con-
dom-design-challenge.
Harn hosting writing competi-
tion
Words on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by 
art. Winning contestants will 
be awarded prizes. See guide-lines at http://harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The deadline is March 17, 
352Creates Leadership Team 
OpportunityThe Center for Arts in Medicine 
is seeking students to join our 
352Creates Leadership Team for a 60-hour apprenticeship in the center to work with the management team. Please con-tact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a resume. For more info: 352Creates.com.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 78
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  70° LOW  48°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris   
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students headed to Gaines-
ville’s bars and clubs will soon be 
able to hitch a free ride while learn-ing about sexual consent. 
Starting Thursday, an electric 
car decorated in comic-book-style illustrations depicting sexual sce-narios will be available to ferry stu-dents from campus to the bar scene and back as part of a UF campaign to teach riders about the impor-tance of consent.The car, a Green Operated Tran-
sit Carrying Humanity Around, or GOTCHA, Ride, is one of about 
ﬁ  ve currently operational cars, run 
through an independent company 
in partnership with UF transporta-
tion services.
The vehicles have been around 
for more than ﬁ  ve years, but for the ﬁ  rst time they will promote consent 
through their illustrations, said 
Scott Fox, director of UF’s trans-
portation and parking services.
For UF ﬁ  nance senior Felipe Bri-
cio, it’s about time. The 21-year-old said some students are not clear on 
what constitutes consent. A friend to some students who have been 
raped in the past, Bricio said the 
consequences of ignorance make a 
program like this necessary.
“I see how much damage some-
thing like that can do,” he said. 
The Sexual Trauma Inter-
personal Violence Education, a UF sex-education program run 
through GatorWell, is behind the 
newly decorated rides, GatorWell 
Spokesperson Joel Axon said. 
STRIVE, funded by student health fees, paid $12,500 for the car’s ad-
vertisements during Spring, said Rita Lawrence, the interpersonal 
violence prevention coordinator for 
GatorWell.
Students call the service, like 
they would a taxi, to set up rides during Fall and Spring semesters 
from 9:30 p.m. to 3 a.m. from 
Thursdays to Saturdays, he said.
The advertisements will stretch 
around both doors of the black car, 
which ﬁ  ts up to eight passengers, 
Axon said.
“It’s a really good way for us to be out there in the community with 
the UF students,” he said.
Although the ride is free, GOT-
CHA’s business model encourages passengers to tip drivers, he said. 
In January 2016, the company re-
ported 4,512 riders to UF transpor-tation, Fox said.
STRIVE’s directors are advertis-
ing with GOTCHA Ride for sexual-
consent awareness after a Spring 
2014 focus group revealed that col-
lege students didn’t clearly under-
stand consent, said Rita Lawrence, 
the interpersonal violence preven-
tion coordinator for GatorWell.
Phase one and two of the sex-
ual-consent educational campaign, which began Aug. 22, aimed to ex-
plain consent and how students are 
negatively affected by sexual as-
sault. The group’s website deﬁ  nes 
consent as a process in a relation-
ship or a series of sexual activities 
involving clear verbal and nonver-
bal communication.
The campaign’s ﬁ  nal phase 
gives strategies for communicating about consent, including the GOT-
CHA advertisements, Lawrence 
said.
“I’m hoping they see it as some-
thing they can get onboard with,” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is a Green Operated Transit Carrying Humanity Around, 
or (GOTCHA), Ride, a free transportation service for students. 
 Free rides to downtown, Midtown to promote consent
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A hot-tub session turned 
violent Monday when one man threatened another with a shot-gun, Gainesville police said.
It was about midnight at 
the Ridge Apartments, located at 3718 SW 24th Ave., when 18-year-old Cristian Gutierrez, of Gainesville, walked passed 
the hot tub toward the apart-
ment’s gym, according to a po-
lice report.
A man in the steaming-
warm water with friends then asked Gutierrez for a cigarette. 
He said he didn’t smoke — 
and then retrieved the shotgun from his car’s trunk and point-
ed it at the man, according to 
the report. 
Gutierrez told police  he had 
a shotgun shell in his hand, but 
he threw it into the tub.
He said he was having a bad 
day, according to the report.
After his arrest, Gutierrez 
told police the man in the hot tub, who he said was drunk, 
called him a “b----” and threat-ened to ﬁ  ght him after Gutier-rez told him he didn’t smoke, according to the report. 
He told police the man 
taunted him, prompting him to retrieve his gun from his car, according to the report.
Gutierrez said he didn’t in-
tend on shooting anyone, ac-cording to the report. After the incident, he got into his car and drove away.
Police arrested Gutierrez on 
a charge of aggravated assault. Authorities took him to Ala-chua County Jail on Monday, where he remains in lieu of a $15,000 bond.
As of press time, Gutierrez 
could not be reached for com-ment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  GPD: Gainesville man points shotgun at hot tub visitor
He said he was having a bad day
Gutierrez
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
After  waiting more than two 
weeks, Hannah Choi, 28, sat at a 
bar on Tuesday and enjoyed her favorite meal: Chimaek — which translates to Korean fried chicken 
and beer. 
The meals at Momoyaki, a Ko-
rean cuisine restaurant, always re-
mind her of home. 
“You definitely start to miss 
it when it’s not around,” the UF pharamacy graduate student said. 
The local restaurant relocated to 
1624 SW 13th St. after 10 years in the same spot near Southwest 34th Street. On Monday, a steady stream of customers inaugurated the full bar, communal seating area and a new menu that included more than 20 new items. Meal prices range between $5 to $14.
After the restaurant’s lease end-
ed in December, the owners man-aged to find the new location at the last minute, said Dylan Sobien, the restaurant’s general manager. 
“We took this move as an op-portunity to change our image and try new things,” Sobien said.
At the new location, more of 
the menu items are hand-crafted, including cocktails. Sobien said he wanted to transform the restaurant into a farm-to-table model, offering 
fresh and local ingredients.“We’re constantly trying to im-
prove in every area,” Sobien said. 
“The focus is on Korean flavors, 
but we want it to be modern too.”Some customers who walked in 
were surprised by the changes, but 
Sobien said he’s confident they’ll 
adjust.
With a space closer to UF and 
downtown Gainesville, he said 
he hopes to draw a larger, more professional crowd while keeping 
prices low.
“Not everyone is rich,” he said. 
“A large part of the population here 
is in school and taking out loans.” 
Choi, who usually eats at the 
restaurant twice a week, said the 
food was worth the wait.
“There aren’t a whole lot of 
places in Gainesville that serve Ko-rean cuisine,” Choi said.
Even though the restaurant is 
changing, she said she’s confident 
the quality will remain the same 
and bring in an even larger crowd 
than before.
“I feel like the new location 
keeps the tradition with a new 
twist,” she said. “It’s very excit-
ing.”
@ced0624
 cdickson@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Kyle McKenna, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, chats with his older brother Sean McKenna, 25, and Michael Haas, 26, at Momoyaki. McKenna decided to visit Momoyaki’s grand opening before he starts working there.
Korean restaurant in Gainesville reopens at new location
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
While the new year often 
brings about far-fetched promis-es, resolutions are typically saved for people — not fast-food chains vowing to be healthier.
At the turn of 2017, the Mex-
ican-style chain Taco Bell an-nounced its plan to rid its menu of extra-large sodas and remove preservatives and additives from its food by 2018.
In 2015, it became the first 
quick-service restaurant to offer American Vegetarian Association certified options and since 2008 has reduced the sodium in all menu items by 15 percent.
In Gainesville, where Taco 
Bell’s two locations see constant student traffic, the resolution has been met with both skepticism and excitement.“I would imagine a reduction 
in sodium by any means is prob-ably good, but it’s probably still pretty high,” said Brandon Mc-Fadden, a UF assistant professor of agricultural food and market-ing.
McFadden said although he 
isn’t an expert on Taco Bell’s nu-tritional profiles, it’s common for fast-food restaurants to take any angle possible in order to improve declining sales.
“In general, if you eat away 
from home, you’re going to con-sume more salt and fat,” McFad-den said.
Waldo resident Daniel 
Ximenes, who visits Taco Bell at least once a week, said after be-coming a vegetarian his budget-friendly options are limited, so he welcomes the restaurant’s com-mitment to healthier eating.
“The only other place I some-times go is Burger King because they have the veggie burger,” the 28-year-old said.
Ximenes said although he has 
a picky appetite, Taco Bell’s rice and beans usually gives him the protein he’s looking for.
Maddie Boyd, 19,  said she 
eats fast food two to three times a week and thinks Taco Bell’s healthier options will probably be an incentive for some to go.
The UF art sophomore said 
she chooses where to eat based on overall taste and how bad she feels after eating.
“I personally hate Taco Bell,” 
she said while eating Chick-fil-A. “I’ve known people who’ve worked there, and they’ve said it’s literally like dog food meat, and it’s not appealing to me at 
all.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
Taco Bell’s New Year’s resolution: 
serving up healthier options
By Madison Hamilton
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences launched a 
new website to teach Florida resi-dents how to preserve, and pos-sibly protect, the state’s quality of water. 
The site, originally published in 
September for a trial period, was not available to the public until January. The website was created by a team of seven institute em-ployees to help people learn about the institute’s water programs, said Kati Migliaccio, a UF agricultural and biological engineering profes-sor and a member of the team who helped create the website. 
“It is designed to help you find 
that set of information,” Migliaccio said. 
The team wanted the website 
to teach different types of people how to be more efficient with their water usage, she said. Topics in-cluded water use in agriculture involving irrigation and fertilizers, water use in nature — like aquifers and wetlands — how homeowners and builders use water in urban settings and outreach programs. 
Users can access more than 10 
subcategories to assist them in finding more specific information, Migliaccio said. 
She said the site only has infor-
mation regarding the university in-stitute’s programs.
The website was designed for 
users to find information as fast as possible, said Tatiana Borisova, a UF associate professor and exten-sion specialist focusing on water economics and policy, who helped create the site.
“The goal was for the general 
public in Florida to have the most simple way to access information by clicking one or two times,” she said. Borisova, who moved to Flori-
da eight years ago and who works with UF’s Water Institute, said Florida residents should realize how their actions affect the state’s water.
“Water is the bloodstream of 
Florida. It’s important for the econ-omy; it’s part of people’s world-view when they think about the state,” Borisova said.
The new site can be found at 
http://water.ifas.ufl.edu.
UF website to teach residents about water conservationBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
For one local radio station, 
kids are the future.
In an effort to cater to a young-
er audience, the WMBT 90.1 FM radio station will rebrand itself today by consistently playing modern hip-hop and rhythm and blues music instead of its previ-ous genres, which were made up of old-school soul and older R&B.
“We want to cater to the stu-
dent population, and honestly, the student population isn’t lis-tening to the ‘60s classic hits,” said Christina Johnson, the sta-tion’s operations manager.
The station will still play clas-
sic soul music occasionally — Sundays after 6 p.m. and Mon-days through Fridays between 10 p.m. and midnight. But be-sides that, the music will consist of current hits, as well as some classic ‘90s R&B, which came out around the time many college kids were born.
At the end of December, 
WMBT 90.1 hired a new music director, as well as a new, am-bitious program director, Akeem Thompson, who said he wants to propel the station to a premiere level among other stations.
“My goal is to make the sta-
tion number one and make it a competitive station,” Thompson said.
Johnson said she will entrust 
the new hires to bring more lis-teners to the station.
“At this moment, we don’t 
have that impact,” she said. “We’re not making an impres-sion on our listeners, and that’s what we want.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgLocal radio station 
catering to studentsTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Daniela Arias
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 15 events are hap-
pening in Gainesville this week in 
honor of Martin Luther King Jr.
Events celebrating his life be-
gan Sunday and will end Monday 
on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. 
Gainesville residents can enjoy 
concerts, ceremonies and confer-ences, which will happen through-out the week.
Akil Reynolds, the assistant 
treasurer for the Black Student Union, believes events like these, which honor the civil rights leader, are a wonderful way of promoting 
inclusion and diversity.
“One of his visions was for all 
people of ethnic or racial back-
grounds to come together and form a better tomorrow,” the 
19-year-old UF health science 
sophomore said.
He said he hopes the entire 
Gainesville community, not just African-Americans, get involved 
in the celebrations.
Shirley Watts, a pastor at the 
Community Praise Center, said the Praize Gospel Concert is be-ing hosted by her church Saturday at Lincoln Middle School. Singer 
Jekalyn Carr, who was nominated 
for a Grammy in Best Gospel Per-
formance or Song, and goes by the name Sistar Cantaloupe as a come-dian, will be performing.
It’s the third year the concert is 
being held, Watts said, adding she hopes the concert is motivating, captivating and entertaining.
Watts said she enjoys being 
part of the celebration because it 
brings the Gainesville community 
together to promote peace and love. 
She said it’s important to re-
member and honor King’s legacy 
and teach the next generation to 
be active in their community. 
“We teach our children to go 
out and march,” she said.   Gainesville celebrating 
MLK holiday all week
THE MULTICULTURAL 
AND DIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
WANTS TO ELIMINATE 
HARMFUL BEAUTY 
STANDARDS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff 
UF’s Multicultural and Diver-
sity Affairs kicked off its new, 
themed monthly events by teach-ing students about healthy New Year’s resolutions.
The event, titled “Decolonizing 
New Year’s Resolutions,” aimed to encourage students to improve themselves overall, rather than focusing on a speciﬁ  c goal that could perpetuate harmful Western standards of beauty and health, said Diana Moreno, the depart-ment’s assistant director. Students 
participated in art activities in four 
areas of the Reitz Union.
“It would mean really focusing on improving your entire self and not just your physical self,” she said.
Morano, 29, said the event was 
the ﬁ  rst the department held this 
Spring. The events, which were 
held sporadically in Fall, will now be regularly held the second Mon-day of every month. 
An example of an unhealthy 
resolution would be a student starting the new year trying to lose 20 pounds, Moreno said. Since someone’s health can’t be 
determined simply by a number, 
the student should address why they want to lose weight and fo-cus on being healthy or in shape. 
Other healthy resolutions 
could include students working to improve personal relationships or academic life, she said.
Students in the LGBTQ+ ofﬁ  ce 
placed ﬁ  ngerprints on a poster board in categories representing which parts of their lives they would like to improve in 2017. The Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander 
American Affairs ofﬁ  ce held can-vasses for students to paint a pic-ture or words representing their resolution.
Visitors to the Black Enrich-
ment Center used a worksheet to map out a healthy goal.
Cristian Laureano, a 20-year-
old UF criminology junior, sat in 
the Hispanic Latino Affairs ofﬁ  ce 
cutting magazine headlines to cre-ate a collage. Phrases he pasted onto the orange paper included “I’m Ready,” “To Be Outspoken” and “Radiance.”
Laureano said his goal for the 
new year was to simply improve every part of his life. 
“Most of these are just things I 
need to work on myself,” he said. “I feel like a lot of people make goals because they want to im-press other people rather than im-
press themselves.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  UF’s MCDA begins monthly eventsMax Chesnes / Alligator Staff
SOLE-TOUCHING
A dancer touches her soles during a stretch before her tryout at the Sabor Latino Spring 2017 auditions in the Reitz Union, Room 3315, on Monday evening. Around 40 dancers attended.
• Jan. 10 at 6:30 p.m. —  
“Remembering Martin and 
Coretta” at Upper Room 
Ministries, 3575 NE 15th St.
• Jan. 11 at 6:30 p.m. — T own 
Hall Symposium: “Bias On 
the Bench — A Community Dialogue” at Martin Luther 
King Jr. Multipurpose Center, 
1028 NE 14th St.
• Jan. 12 at 6 p.m. — UF MLK 
Opening March & Ceremony 
at Institute of Black Culture, 
1510 W. University Ave.
• Jan. 14 at 6 p.m. — Praize 
Gospel Concert  at Lincoln Middle School, 1001 SE 12th 
St.• Jan. 16 at 11 a.m. — Hall of 
Fame Award Enshrinement Program at MLK Memorial 
Garden, 200 E. University Ave.
• Jan. 16 at noon — National 
Holiday Kick-Off Program at Bo Diddley Community Plaza, 111 E. University Ave.
• Jan. 16 at 1 p.m. — King 
Celebration Annual Commemorative March Begins 
at MLK Memorial Gardens, 
200 E. University Ave.
• Jan. 16 at 2 p.m. — National 
Holiday Gospel Program 
at Martin Luther King Jr. 
Multipurpose Center, 1028 NE 
14th St.EVENTS HAPPENING THIS WEEKThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORThe Hypocrisy of 
Calling Liberals 
Oversensitive 
Let’s talk about Liberals — capital L — in the way people 
like Tomi Lahren and Bill O’Reilly refer to them. Perhaps the most common critique of Liberals is how overly sensi-tive they are, clamoring for political correctness and safe spaces. We’re familiar with Brown University’s backlash 
for having a ‘safe space’ full of coloring books and bubbles after a campus debate on rape culture, and conversely, the uproar fol-lowing the University of Chicago’s decision to release an email saying they were not in favor of trigger warnings and safe spaces. But we’re not here to debate the validity of these safe spaces. We’re going to analyze the claim that conservatives keep going back to — that Liberals are awful because they are oversensitive — and refute it with one, big counterpoint: our current President-elect, Donald Trump.
Criticism of presidential candidates isn’t unique to this elec-
tion cycle alone. There has always been a commotion, ranging from relevant criticisms about a candidate’s qualifications and plans, to more childish and irrelevant insults about birth certifi-cates and a resemblance to the Zodiac Killer. As long as there has been an available outlet, supporters have been sending zingers to the opposing candidate (a notable example being a cartoon of Grover Cleveland and his illegitimate child circulating the papers during the 1884 election cycle.)
But candidates and established politicians are familiar with 
criticism and humorous jabs. During the 2008 election, “Satur-day Night Live” had a field day with Tina Fey’s impersonation of vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, who even got a laugh out of it, since she had once dressed as Fey for Halloween. On the other side of the political spectrum, claims that President Barack Obama’s birthplace was outside the U.S. have been circulating since he started campaigning. In response, at a 2011 press confer-ence, President Obama released a video of his birth — a clip from 
the opening scene of “The Lion King.”
This past year’s election cycle and its aftermath have shown 
a different type of candidate: one who doesn’t take kindly to 
criticism. It’s seen in reactions to political analyst commentary, “Saturday Night Live” sketches and Golden Globes acceptance speeches. Perhaps that’s what the people want though. After all, the president-elect’s prime selling point is that he says what’s on his mind, and damn anyone who makes fun of his hair or ques-tions his policies. In response to the “SNL” sketches, President-
elect Trump took to Twitter and tweeted how “totally biased 
(and) not funny” they were. In response to Meryl Streep’s Golden Globes speech, in which she eloquently expressed her concerns about Trump, he hopped on Twitter again, blaming “liberal Hol-lywood” and the “over-rated actress” — though in 2015, he had called her one of his favorites, but who’s checking? Once again, maybe this is the type of candidate Americans want. His sup-porters are big fans of people who complain about criticism and jump to social media every time they decide something is wrong.
But wait, isn’t this the same exact criticism that Trump sup-
porters have of Liberals: that they complain too much, are easily insulted and are overly sensitive? How can it be that they rally behind a candidate who vividly demonstrates the exact same be-havior they condemn? It’s hypocritical for Trump supporters to idolize the president-elect’s quickness to anger and oversensitiv-ity when those are the same abhorrent traits they attribute to Liberals. If you’re going to pick a behavior to mock, make sure it’s not your candidate’s quintessential character trait.
The Electoral College is wack; and here’s why
With Inauguration Day just around the 
corner, I feel appropriate in bringing 
up the harsh reality of the most re-cent election — a reality the losers 
love to force into our ears, and the 
winners wish we’d all forget: Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by more than 2 million 
votes. If Clinton won by such a large number, then how did President-elect Donald Trump se-
cure the most desired seat in American politics? 
You already know the answer: the Electoral 
College.
The Electoral College is like the ice cream machine at 
McDonald’s: Everyone knows it’s broken, but no one can 
tell you why or how to fix it, so we all just roll with it. 
I’m so tired of rolling with something that is confus-
ing, ancient and ruining our country by disproportionately 
making some votes count less than others. Before you get 
heated and throw the Opinions section to the ground, just hear me out.
Unlike McDonald’s, we can’t take our business to a real 
restaurant, keeping this presidential to keep it simple), and 
it’s the fate of our country. Why was the Electoral Col-
lege first created? Well, two reasons: The first, because our 
Founding Fathers feared a presidential candidate could get 
tyrannical by swaying public opinion — which ironically 
enough is what the presidential campaign has become: a 
battle between people, not policy. Electors were created to select someone fit for the presidency because the Founding 
Fathers didn’t believe the population could ever make the 
right choice. 
The second, more important reason is because the 
Founding Fathers didn’t want campaigners to focus solely 
on the more populous states. They dictated that regardless 
of population, all states were given three electoral votes to 
begin with. To understand this, you need to know what’s 
going on with electoral votes in the first place — please 
read slowly; it’s about to get wild. The Electoral College 
is given electoral votes by the total number of represen-tatives in Congress. This is summated from 
the 100 seats in the Senate — an unchanging 
number — and the currently held 435 seats in the House of Representatives — which is 
based on population. That gives us 535 total 
electoral votes. These votes are then suppos-
edly distributed evenly among the population 
of the entire U.S. (approximately 324,118,787/ 535 = 605,829) meaning a single electoral vote 
is given per 605,829 people in the state. If you 
remember from earlier, the Founding Fathers 
dictated each state must receive three electoral votes out of the total 535 before considering their population. This 
means that people who vote in smaller states have an 
unfair vote compared to those who vote in larger states, 
like Florida, which has four fewer electoral votes than it 
should. This is eerily Orwellian for the U.S.: All votes are 
equal, but some votes are more equal than others.
The Electoral College doesn’t even do the most impor-
tant job it was designed to do. The smaller states always fall in favor of Republicans, so they’re rarely given atten-
tion by Democrats. California almost always votes Demo-
crat, so Republicans rarely campaign there. You get the 
point. Campaigners typically push for four paramount 
swing states: Ohio, Florida, Pennsylvania and Virginia, 
and they just skip the small states or go there once to smile 
and wave. 
This wouldn’t be a problem if our system wasn’t also 
winner-take-all: If you win the slightest majority of 50.1 percent, then you get all the electoral votes of a state, ex-
cluding Maine and Nebraska. If you do the math, a candi-
date can win all the small states by 50.1 percent, win the 
electoral vote by 50.19 percent and lose the popular vote 
with only 22 percent secured. We should not have a sys-
tem that allows for the possibility of anyone winning the 
presidency by only securing 22 percent of all the people 
who vote. And that is why the Electoral College is wack.
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
There is a lot to be said about the choice 
to remain blissfully ignorant, especially in regard to things we cannot change — like genetics. Having watched the science ﬁ  ction ﬁ  lm “Gattaca” on a slow 
day in my high-school biology class, with its depictions of a futuristic society driven by ge-netic discrimination, I am all too aware of the dangers of knowing too much about one's ge-netic proﬁ  le. So when my parents bought me the 23andMe ‘Health + Ancestry’ kit to ﬁ  nd out more about our family’s ancestral back-ground, I felt an unsettling mixture of antici-pation and apprehension as I shipped my test 
tube of spit off to a California lab.
As someone who grew up with no strong 
ties to any particular ethnic group, I was unde-
niably excited to ﬁ  nd out my “ancestry compo-sition,” as the company’s website puts it. Yet with this information additionally came the “health reports,” complete with carrier status, wellness and traits reports that detail how my genome affects my current and future health. Though 23andMe previously in-cluded estimations of users’ risk of diabetes, breast cancer and macular degeneration, the MIT Technology Review reports that the Food and 
Drug Administration banned the 
tests in 2013 due to supposed inac-curacies. The health report also ex-cludes many of the diseases I fear the most, such as Alzheimer’s, so my fears essentially boiled down to the carrier status report, which de-tailed whether I could pass on any of 36 pos-sible inherited diseases to my future children.
It goes without saying that my curiosity 
trumped my anxiety, and I can now live my life with the knowledge that I am more likely to be a sprinter (which is hilarious to those who know me), less likely to sneeze after eating dark chocolate and more likely to gain weight on a diet high in saturated fat (damn). It was amusing to ﬁ  nd out how incorrect my previ-ous ancestral knowledge was as I reﬂ  ected on all the times I had told people I was mostly Italian, when in reality I was only 0.6 percent.
In all, the reports were little more 
than a momentary amusement, 
since the results made no difference 
to my daily life. But I would be lying if I said I wasn’t nervous when I ﬁ  rst opened up those reports with my friends peering over my shoulders.
I received a wide variety of re-
sponses from friends regarding the 
23andMe test, but the most surprising ones were those underscored by paranoia. Several 
friends marveled at my audacity in handing 
over my genome to a random corporation, and likely, the U.S. government. While I doubt the country will go full-on “Gattaca” any time soon, I do understand their hesitation about sharing that information considering its possible use by health insurance agencies and police. Other friends were opposed to 23andMe’s sale of ge-netic information to more than 13 drug com-panies, like Pﬁ  zer, Genentech and Biogen. For the most part, people don’t like their personal information to be commoditized, whether that information takes the form of their genetic makeup or Facebook browsing history.
In the end, I chose to shirk the paranoia 
and focus on the beneﬁ  ts my genome could have on the scientiﬁ  c community since an av-erage 23andMe customer contributes to more than 230 studies, according to the company’s website. Overall, direct-to-consumer genetic testing is an exciting new frontier with its own novel drawbacks. While genetic tests that re-veal more serious health risks require greater 
consideration of how much we value knowl-
edge for knowledge’s sake, simpliﬁ  ed tests can provide limited yet valuable insight. Though the future of this industry is unclear, the no-tion of jumping the middleman and taking your genetic information into your own hands is an empowering one.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior.   
Her column appears on Tuesdays.Weighing your options: genetic testing kits and the burden of knowledgeColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
null, null Tuesday, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
ple have worked on the 32 divi-
sions to create the new building in a plot that previously served as a 
parking lot at the corner of Buck-
man Drive and West University 
Avenue, he said. During the first 
year, the team planned the build-ing and installed infrastructure, in-
cluding water pipes and electrical 
lines.
But the project halted in 2010 
after the underground wiring was in place, he said. UF decided to 
go ahead and begin the on-ground 
construction in 2014, adding $24 
million to the building’s original 
funds.
The state provided the remain-
ing money to the building’s bud-get, Javaheri said.
By the end of Spring, the build-
ing’s first-floor general chemistry lab will house about 250 students, while the second-floor organic 
chemistry lab will hold about 120, Javaheri said. Upper levels, 
which will have restricted access for graduate students conducting research, can fit about 60 students.
Mastrodicasa said there has 
been a huge demand in recent years for class space from students in all majors who need to take chemistry.
“It’s not just that we needed 
something new and shiny,” she said.
Because the hall is focused on 
providing labs and classrooms for students, there are hardly any ad-ministrative offices in the building, said Margaret Fields, the associate dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
“This building is entirely stu-
dent-centered,” she said.
Though Javaheri has been 
working on the project since 2008, he isn’t sad to see it completed — 
even now, he has begun looking 
into his next project on Norman 
Hall’s renovations.
“Hopefully when I get this 
building done, the building’s going 
to shine,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgCHEM,  from pg.1It cost about $66 million
The new organic chemistry lab will be located on the second floor of the Joseph Hernandez Hall and 
will be able to accommodate more than 120 students. The building will be ready for occupancy this upcoming Summer. 
Frank Javaheri, the Senior Project Manager, mentioned that the fume hoods are energy efficient much like many other aspects of the building, which is certified Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED, Gold.
A view of the hallway located adjacent to the new organic chemistry lab on the second floor of the Joseph Hernandez Hall. This will be UF’s  first educational building to ha ve all-LED lighting.
A view of the general chemistry lab from the stairs located perpendicular to them. The new general chemistry lab located on the first floor has 16 stations with the intent of accommodating 16 students per station for an estimated occupancy of 250.
This atomic structure made by artist T ony Stallard will hang above the entrance of the Joseph Hernandez Hall.
Photos by Alan Alvarez
Alligator Staff
“This building is entirely 
student-centered.”
Jeanna Mastrodicasa
Associate VP for Operations, IFASTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Fri., Jan. 13, from 2 to 5 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Staff Writers, Staff Photographers, 
Copy Editors, Sports Writers, Sports 
Copy Editors, Contributing Writers 
and Contributing Photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
VISIT US AT 
EITHER LOCATION
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
By the numbers: Joseph Hernandez Hall
plans begin
2008construction halts2010construction begins2014ﬁ  rst setbackMay 2016second setbackJan. 2017expected date of completion
April 2017 Scheduled grand opening/dedication: April 21
What it took:
• About 111,000 square feet
• 380,000 bricks used
• Six levels $
• $66.5 million project cost
• $100,000 for “Arts in Sciences” 
sculpture 
• $24 million from the university• 500 workers in 32 divisions
• 250 students can ﬁ  t in ﬁ  rst-level lab
• 120 students can ﬁ  t in second-level lab
• 60 students can ﬁ  t in fourth-level labTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-2**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
LARGE 2 bedroom with wood floors located 
downtown. $1150/mth with utilities included. 
237 SW 2nd Pl. Call 870-2760     1-10-17-5-2
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th 
Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
MOVING SALE!!!! Items include: Kenmore 
Washer/ Dryer set $225, Glass dining table set $150, Dresser with mirror $200 AND LOTS MORE. For more details, Contact 561-329-3781.       1-12-17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
GoAutoBid.com
Sell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647          1-6-1-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a quick-ser -
vice setting. We will be opening very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and Williston Road, next to Publix and across from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an email to tacodel -
margainesville@yahoo.com saying "I'm in-terested." We will respond by sending you an application.
1-17-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-11-17-5-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Doofus
5 Dodge Aries and
Plymouth Reliant
10 Smack on the
mouth
14 Letter-shaped
support piece
15 “For real!”
16 Pop singer
Brickell
17 Dice roller’s
exhortation
19 Scrabble piece20 TV preview21 Taken as a whole23 Satchel feature26 Margarita glass
rim coating
27 Curved sword30 Application info:
Abbr.
32 Pool measure35 What soccer
shootouts
resolve
36 Peaceful state
38 P-like Greek
letter
39 Actress Thurman
40 Actor with near-
synonymous first
and last names
41 Museum hanging
42 Amount after
costs
43 Suitcase
attachments
44 Yuletide45 Not so hot?47 __ Lanka48 Swollen49 Upper, in Ulm51 Male voice range53 “Toodle-oo!”56 Evaluate for tax
purposes
60 Wee bit61 Cause trouble ...
and a hint to this
puzzle’s circledletters
64 Time in office65 Emulate
Vesuvius
66 Scarlet letter of
fiction
67 Slow Churned ice
cream brand
68 Hagar of Van
Halen
69 Wine bottle
numberDOWN
1 Random House
vol.
2 Woodwind
instrument
3 Dalai __
4 Locks on heads
5 Soup mix brand6 “Blue Bloods”
extra
7 Pie-mode
connection
8 TV host Kelly9 Applies
weatherstrippingto
10 Stovetop 
whistler
11 Pretty darn
simple
12 Housecat’s
perch
13 Watermelon
eater’s discard
18 Four: Pref.22 Saddled (with)24 People with skill25 Toaster snack
27 Publicity ploy
28 Evangelist __
Semple
McPherson
29 Verses by Allen
Ginsberg, e.g.31 Shake it on the
dance floor
33 Burglar
34 “Deck the Halls”
greenery
36 Free (of)37 Yearbook gp.40 One on horseback44 Room with a crib46 Steel girders48 Luxurious50 Greets the judge52 Well-dressed53 Mention in a
footnote
54 Broke up some
clods
55 Senorita’s “other”57 Weapon with a
tip guard
58 Scotch go-with
59 Walk of Fame
figure
62 Periodic table
suffix
63 Turntable no.
By Janice Luttrell©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/10/1701/10/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 10, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
PART TIME SALES ASSISTANT needed 
for local Audio/Video retail store. approx. 15-17 hrs per week.Thurs & Fri 12-6pm and Sat 10am-3pm. Ideally, applicant should be tech savvy, have some retail experience, be organized and posses good communica -
tion skills. Position starts at $10 per hour. Applicants can email resume to mark@elec -
tronics-world.net.    1-13-17-5-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger & Harder Immediately. Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Brochure: 1-800-354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com                  1-6-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305                 1-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-11-17-5-15
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching 
& aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-17-17-8-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Bryan Shelton and the Florida 
men's tennis team competed in an individual competition over the weekend. Find out how players fared, pg. 15Two Florida football freshmen honored
Offensive lineman Jawaan T aylor and linebacker David Reese were 
announced as Freshman All-Americans by the Football Writers Association of America on Monday.  T aylor started every game but UF's first at right tackle while Reese filled in for injured starter Jarrad Davis. MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
KeVaughn Allen didn’t even 
know he won SEC Player of the 
Week. 
“At first, I didn’t know what 
(coach Mike White) was talking about when he said congratu-lations,” the 6-foot-2 shooting guard said Monday. 
Not getting caught up with in-
dividual accolades is a virtue of Allen, the Gators’ silent, effective assassin. 
While the sophomore averaged 
18.5 points, five rebounds and three steals last week to earn the award, he's more grounded than cocky. 
“He doesn’t understand some-
times how good a scorer he is,” White said about Allen. “He’s such an unselfish kid. We did 
have to prod him for a while.”
And 15 games into the season, 
the prodding is paying off. 
Against Tennessee on Satur-
day, Allen led a second-half UF comeback during which he made 
every shot he took, including four critical three-pointers. 
White said Allen is becoming 
one of the most consistent play-ers on the team. 
Over his last seven games, 
he’s shooting 51 percent from the field and 53 percent from beyond the arc.
The Gators (12-3, 3-0 SEC) 
will look for another dependable performance from the sophomore guard when they play Alabama (9-5, 2-0 SEC) on the road at 9 
tonight. 
In last season's matchup, 
Alabama held Florida to under 
30-percent shooting from the field in the Crimson Tide’s 61-55 
win at the O’Connell Center, their 
first win in the arena since 1995. 
And Alabama’s defense has 
improved. The Crimson Tide 
rank 13th in the nation, allowing 61.1 points per game thanks to intimidating rim protection from forwards Jimmie Taylor and White: KeVaughn Allen doesn't 
understand how good he is
Grace King / Alligator Staff
KeVaughn Allen looks on during Florida's 94-71 win against Arkansas-Little Rock on Dec. 21 in the 
O'Connell Center. On Monday, the sophomore guard was announced as the SEC Player of the Week for the first time in his career. 
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15NATIONAL
CLEMSON SCORED 
THE GO-AHEAD 
TOUCHDOWN 
WITH ONE SECOND 
REMAINING IN  
THE GAME. 
The Associated Press
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Col -
lege football's first national 
championship rematch was fitting sequel to the original, with an unusual twist at the end.
Deshaun  
Watson and Clemson de
-
throned the champs and 
became the first team to beat Nick 
Saban's Ala
-
bama dynasty in a national 
title game, taking down the top-ranked Crimson Tide 35-31 Monday night in the Col
-
lege Football Playoff.
Watson found Hunter Ren -
frow for a 2-yard touchdown pass with a second remaining to give the Tigers their first national championship since 1981. 
A year after Alabama won 
its fourth title under Saban with a 45-40 classic in Ari
-
zona, Clemson closed the deal and denied the Tide an unprec
-
edented fifth championship in eight seasons.
The lead changed hands 
four times in the fourth quar
-
ter, but Watson got the ball last. Likely playing in his final college game, the junior quar
-
terback threw for 420 yards and three touchdowns.
Coach Dabo Swinney had 
built an elite program at Clem
-
son that was missing only one thing, and now the Tigers can check that box, too.
The Tigers took a 28-24 lead 
with 4:38 left in the fourth quarter when Wayne Gallman surged in from a yard out.
The Tide's offense, which 
had gone dormant for most of the second half, came to life with the help of a sweet call from newly promoted offen
-
sive coordinator Steve Sarki -
sian. 
Receiver ArDarius Stewart 
took a backward pass from Jalen Hurts and fired a strike to O.J. Howard for 24 yards.
On the next play, Hurts 
broke free from a collapsing pocket and weaved his way through defenders for a 30-yard touchdown run to make 
it 31-28 with 2:07 left.
More than enough time for 
Watson, who hooked up with 
Mike Williams and Jordan 
Leggett for great catches and 
big gains to get to first-and-goal.
A pass interference on Ala
-
bama made it first-and-goal at the 2 with six seconds left. Time for one more play to avoid a tying kick and poten
-
tial overtime. Renfrow slipped away from the defense at the goal line and was alone for an easy toss. 
It was the walk-on receiv
-
er's second TD catch of the night, adding to the two he had last season against Ala
-
bama.
When it ended Clemson's 
315-pound defensive lineman Christian Wilkins did a cart
-
wheel and Ben Boulware, one of the toughest linebackers in the country, was in tears.
The Tigers had snapped 
Alabama's 26-game winning 
streak and beaten a No. 1 team 
for the first time ever.In championship 
rematch, Clemson 
claims CFP title
UF plays at Alabama tonight at 9Watson
“Coach Dabo Swinney had 
built an elite program at 
Clemson that was missing 
only one thing, and now the 
Tigers can check  
that box, too.”14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
IT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
You know the drill.
Every new year comes 
with a caveat: Society tells 
us that we must resolve to 
do at least one thing dur-
ing the upcoming year to better ourselves and/or those around us. 
Inevitably, we fail. We may 
make a resolution to exercise more only to spend the ﬁ  rst week of January in the gym before not returning until March, realizing 
that Spring Break is fast approach-
ing and that couch-potato bod is deﬁ  nitely not Daytona Beach ready.
But that’s depressing. Why fo-
cus on ourselves here?
Instead, sit back, relax, and 
venture on a holier-than-thou journey with me as we hand out 
New Year’s resolutions to a few of 
UF’s sports teams. 
Let’s hope they don’t skip the 
gym until March.
Football:Find a damn quarterback.That’s it.I’m convinced that even if the 
Gators see a drop-off next year — if their defense suffers with the loss of multiple starters to the NFL Draft, if they get manhandled by 
Alabama in the conference title 
game again, and if a lackluster 2017 recruiting class sees little 
production in its ﬁ  rst season — all will be forgiven if a quality 
quarterback arises as the signal 
caller of the future.
We’re looking at you, Feleipe 
Franks. 
Of course, UF 
could also turn to Kyle Trask or incoming true freshman 
Jake Allen. But 
Franks was the 
highest-rated re-cruit of the three 
out of high school and likely the most mobile. 
And in a college football land-
scape that favors the mobile-minded passer (see: Deshaun 
Watson, Lamar Jackson, Jalen 
Hurts), Franks can earn a leg-up in the QB race if he plays well in Spring practice.
Men’s basketball:Second-year head coach Mike 
White and the Gators need to make the NCAA Tournament. 
Plain and simple.
But here’s the strange thing: 
The No. 23 Gators may be good 
enough to do more than just earn 
a tournament berth this season.
UF hasn’t qualiﬁ  ed for the Big Dance since 2014 — the second-
to-last year of former coach Billy Donovan’s tenure and the year UF lost to eventual-champion UConn 
in the Final Four.
This year 
should be differ-
ent. 
To start, the 
Gators have a better offense 
than last sea-son. They’re al-
ready averaging 
78.9 points per contest — about 
four more than last season —and with its athletic wings, shot block-ers and quick guards, UF usually 
plays sound defense.
Add on the fact that the Gators 
have played the nation’s No. 
1-ranked strength of schedule so 
far and have looked impressive 
throughout (UF is 12-3 with losses to No. 5 Gonzaga by ﬁ  ve points, No. 7 Duke by 10 points and No. 9 Florida State by ﬁ  ve points, all away from home), and the rest of UF’s schedule looks like a cake-walk.
So, in summation: Assert your-
selves as the second-best team in the Southeastern Conference (behind No. 6 Kentucky), Gators, 
and get back to the NCAA Tour-
nament.
Because if you do, who knows 
what could happen from there.
Softball: Re-establish your dominance.After winning two straight 
national championships in 2014 
and 2015, the No. 1-seed Gators 
couldn’t make it past their own Super Regional last season, end-ing the year in shocking fashion with two straight losses to No. 16-
seed Georgia.
But with an-
other strong re-
cruiting class 
and coach Tim 
Walton still at the helm, the 
Gators will en-ter this season 
ranked as the 
No. 1 team in the nation.
Prove it.
Show the nation that last year 
was a ﬂ  uke. Win the SEC, make 
it to the NCAA Tournament and, more than likely, the national 
championship game.
Yes, those are high expecta-
tions. 
But for a program one year re-
moved from a repeat, that’s where 
the expectations should be.
Baseball:
Time for coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan to prove that the multi-
year extension he signed during 
the offseason was a smart invest-ment by UF.
The Gators 
made the College World Series 
last year but were promptly booted out of 
the postseason 
with two 
straight losses, 
including one to eventual national 
champion Coastal Carolina.
So, as they are nearly every 
year, expectations for the Florida baseball team reside somewhere near winning the school’s ﬁ  rst na-
tional title.
Go get it done, Sully.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer 
whose column appears on Tues-
days. Contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on  Gators sports teams: Here are your New Year’s resolutions for 2017
Walton
Franks
O’Sullivan
White
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbBy Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Some of the world’s top young tennis 
talent assembled in Plantation, Florida, over 
the weekend. 
The qualifying rounds  of the USA F3 
Futures Pro Circuit tournament, which pumps in competitors from all over the world, opened on Friday, with nine Florida 
men’s tennis players and one UF signee 
competing on the clay for a spot in the main singles draw. 
And according to UF head coach Bryan 
Shelton, the pro tournament is a special test 
for his athletes. 
“For us, being able to play these pro events 
gives us an opportunity for our guys to play 
against really good competition,” he said 
in a release. “We’ve got guys on our team 
that aspire to play professional tennis when they’re done with their college career, so we certainly want to give them a taste of it.”
Florida responded well to their first taste 
of action in 2017.  
Eight of the nine Gators who competed 
won their first-round draw. However, as the weekend progressed, the field thinned and 
only four of those eight UF players advanced 
to the third round: senior Elliott Orkin, junior Chase Perez-Blanco and the doubles tandem of sophomore Alfredo Perez and freshman Johannes Ingildsen.
Future Gator Andres Andrade, who signed 
a letter of intent with UF in November, also made the third round. Andrade had an impressive run for an 18-year-old but was 
eliminated in the third round by Evgeny 
Korolev of Russia in two sets. 
Orkin was also defeated in the third round, 
bounced by Argentinian Felipe Martinez Sarrasague, who went on to qualify for the main draw.
Ingildsen, Perez and Perez-Blanco then 
advanced to the fourth and final round before the main draw.
Ingildsen squared off against No. 2-seed 
Hunter Callahan (USA) for a berth in the main draw and defeated the American in two sets, 6-3, 6-1.
Ingildsen’s doubles partner, Perez, 
faced an American as well in Aleksandar 
Kovacevic. The sophomore also took care of 
his opponent in two sets, 6-2, 6-4, capturing a spot in the main draw.
While both Ingildsen and Perez claimed 
their spots in the main draw, Perez-Blanco was battling in a hard-fought, three-set match against No. 4-seed Genaro Alberto Olivieri of Argentina. Despite winning the first set (6-4), Perez-Blanco dropped the last two sets (2-6, 
2-6) and was denied entrance into the main 
draw by the Argentine. 
Despite only two of his players remaining 
in the tournament, Shelton is optimistic that 
the F3 Futures has been a valuable experience 
for his team. 
“The competition has been great here 
and is certainly helping us prepare for our upcoming dual season,” Shelton said. 
The F3 Futures tournament marks the 
end of any action the men’s tennis team will see until the start of the dual season on Jan. 
21, when Florida begins its season with a 
doubleheader against Georgia Southern and Kennesaw State at the Ring Tennis Complex.
As for Ingildsen and Perez, action resumes 
today in the main draw with Ingildsen facing Venezuelan Ricardo Rodriguez and Perez taking on Olivieri. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
KEVAUGHN ALLEN IN CONFERENCE GAMES
opponent points FG-FGA 3PM-3PA FT rebounds steals turnovers minutes
Arkansas 21 7-16 5-9 2-2 2 1 0 34
Ole Miss 14 4-9 4-7 2-2 5 2 1 31
T ennessee 23 8-13 4-6 3-5 5 4 1 33Gators compete in 
professional tournament
Alligator File Photo
UF coach Bryan Shelton (right) congratulates McClain Kessler during Florida's 
6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Donta Hall.
“Playing against Alabama was tough,” Allen 
said. “Going into the half, we (were) down, and we had made a lot of mistakes going into that game.”
Allen was largely neutralized against the Crim-
son Tide last year, scoring 12 points but shooting 1-for-5 on three-point shots. 
But Allen was a freshman in that game, and this 
year, his teammates have made a point of urging their leading scorer to be more aggressive.
“Nights when I’m not on," Allen said, "you 
know, I’m just missing, and they just come up to me and try to encourage me to shoot, you know, 
just continue to shoot and eventually that it’ll fall. 
That means a lot to me.”
Individual success aside, Allen knows earning a 
weekly award won’t help UF’s chances of winning 
the SEC. 
“We have a ways to go,” Allen said. “We’re try-
ing to get to a point where we can play 40-minute 
games, you know. And as of right now, we’re not 
right there. Just gotta continue to work and even-
tually we’ll be there.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg13Allen scored 12 points in UF's 61-55 loss to Alabama last yearName (Year) Country Result in Competition
Alfredo Perez (So.) USA Competing in Main Draw
Chase Perez-Blanco (Jr.) USA OUT  4th Round Qualifying
Joseph Guillin (Fr.) France OUT 1st Round Qualifying
Elliott Orkin (Sr.) USA OUT 3rd Round Qualifying
Stephen Madonia (Fr.) USA OUT 2nd Round Qualifying
McClain Kessler (So.) USA OUT 2nd Round Qualifying
Johannes Ingildsen (Fr.) Denmark Competing in Main Draw
Maxx Lipman (Sr.) USA OUT 2nd Round Qualifying
Jordan Belga (Jr.) USA OUT 2nd Round QualifyingUF PLAYERS WHO COMPETED AT THE F3 FUTURES
Grace King  / Alligator Staff
KeVaughn Allen dunks during Florida's 94-71 win against Arkansas-
Little Rock on Dec. 21 in the O'Connell Center. 
MEN'S TENNIS16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 2017
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
