We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 115 FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
Hill ﬁ  nally living up to potential
The senior was a disappointing ﬁ  ve-star recruit 
until this season, pg. 13
UF alumnus donates $1.5 million
The donation went toward an engineering program, pg. 9
Local mom enlists deputy to catch speeders
She said motorists speed by her kids’ stopped buses, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After a rash of resignation an-
nouncements at UF’s Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs, details of the department’s apparent instability 
have begun to surface.
One ofﬁ  cial called it a toxic en-
vironment. Another said it was  
crumbling. A third doubted it could change.In a span of 11 days, three direc-
tors for UF Multicultural and Diver-sity Affairs announced their resigna-tions, two of whom left after holding their positions for only about seven months.In four years, 12 directors have 
resigned. Since MCDA’s inception in 
2002, which is intended to be a place 
to support underserved communi-ties, the longest-serving director has stayed for ﬁ  ve years.
UF’s Vice President for Student 
Affairs David Parrott said turnover is common as people leave for other jobs. Records show most of those who 
resigned said they wanted a new opportunity, but reports of inﬁ  ght-ing and structural disarray have cast doubt on the department’s stability.
“After four years, there’s only so 
much you can take,” said Vee Byrd, the former director of Black Affairs. 
‘Toxic environment’: MCDA’s instability surfaces
BETA THETA PI HAS BEEN 
VANDALIZED BEFORE. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Beta Theta Pi Fraternity mem-
bers woke up Thursday morning 
to ﬁ  nd the letters of their house 
vandalized, again. 
The fraternity’s Greek letters, 
, are displayed diagonally 
along a white wall in black ink — with enough room for someone to add “ER” in spray paint next to 
them. 
Sometime before Thursday 
morning someone did just that 
to the house on Fraternity Row, 
spelling “BONER.”
The phrase “DEEZ NUTZ” was 
also written on the far right of the wall.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlan-
do said the fraternity contacted 
UF’s Sorority and Fraternity Af-
fairs about the incident. The sign 
has been similarly vandalized 
in the past, but Orlando said he 
didn’t know when or how many 
times. 
“There could be consequenc-
es in relations to vandalism,” he said. “There’s no indication that we know who did it.”
The fraternity’s president, Sean 
Murtha, declined to comment.
Homar Hernandez, a UF tele-
communication freshman unaf-
ﬁ  liated with the fraternity, said he 
saw the paint while waiting at the 
bus stop near the house at about 
7:40 a.m. 
The 18-year-old, who lives 
across the street from the house in Springs Residential Complex, said he saw similar vandalism in 
a previous semester in red paint. 
When he returned to his resi-
dence hall at about 2 p.m., he said 
it looked like someone attempted 
to cover it up, but the black letters 
were still faintly visible. 
“It kind of sucks for them,” he 
said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF fraternity house vandalized with phallic phrasesAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
PROTESTING FOR SKIN 
Stacey Van Buskirk, 24, a University of Michigan alumna, leads a group of more than a dozen 
protesters across Southwest 34th Street on Thursday morning. The protesters were comprised of the nonprofit group Bloodstained Men and Their Friends, who protect “children and future generations from genital cutting, ” as stated on their flier.
THEY BELIEVE IT’S 
HARMFUL AND CRUEL.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Amid downpour and shouts 
of disgruntled drivers, a group 
of about 20 protesters rallied in 
Gainesville on Thursday in a ﬁ  ght 
against male circumcision.
The Bloodstained Men and 
Their Friends, a nonproﬁ  t or-
ganization, stood on the corner 
of Southwest Archer Road and Southwest 34th Street wearing white bodysuits with faux blood-stains on their groins.
The group’s goal is to protect 
children and future generations from genital cutting, said founder Brother K, who legally changed 
his name in 1986.
“All genital mutilation of chil-
dren is gruesome,” he said. “It’s 
a tragedy, and it’s a crime against humanity.”
Hoisting signs that read phras-
es like “Doctors lie, circumcision harms,” and “End male genital mutilation,” the group cheered 
between the honks — both sup-
portive and oppositional — of passing drivers.
The protesters have seen 
their fair share of retaliation, K said. Besides the occasional cuss 
word and middle ﬁ  nger, boxes of 
tampons have been ﬂ  ung at the group. In Ocala on Wednesday, a woman released her dog in front 
of the group and yelled, “sic ‘em.”
“I won’t give up as long as I 
have breath in my body,” the 
69-year-old said.Protesters speak out 
against circumcisionSEE MCDA,  PAGE 4
SEE CIRCUMCISION,  PAGE 3“All genital mutilation of 
children is gruesome.”
Brother K
Anti-circumcision organizer
CAMPUSClaims of inighting, controversySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 115
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  71° LOW  41°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send 
an email with “What’s Happening” 
in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publica-tion in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 
p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS:
In an article published March 1, originally titled “Cuban-born UF grads to sell paintings for hur-ricane relief,” the Alligator incor-rectly reported the artists hope their artwork can help bring fi-nancial relief to Baracoa, Cuba. Their only hope is to uphold their Hispanic heritage, although 
money raised will go to hurricane 
relief.In that same article, the Alligator incorrectly reported the exhibit would run for one day. The ex-hibit will run for a month. In an article originally titled “Cuban-born UF grads to sell paintings for hurricane relief,” the Alligator incorrectly reported Alvaro Labañino to be Cuban. He is Cuban-American.
FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
SPRING BREAK PLANS?
Let your pet stay in the lap of luxury
DELUXE SUITES • INDIVIDUAL 
PLAY TIME • TLC & CUDDLES 
FROM STAFF • GROOMING
 shoresanhosp.com/boarding
3717 NW 13th St • 505-5304
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Nyssa Retter, 32, carries Robbie, her 16-month-old child, while standing on the corner of Southwest 34th 
Street and Southwest Archer Road. Nyssa held a sign that read, “Foreskin is not a birth defect. ”
The nonproﬁ  t was founded in 2012 in response to a policy 
statement released by the American Academy of Pediatrics that 
seemingly endorsed circumcision, K said. The group has trav-
eled nationwide since then. They visited 60 cites in 2016.
The Florida cities on this year’s tour include Miami, Fort 
Lauderdale, Ocala and Panama City, said Harry Guiremand, a 
Bloodstained Men spokesperson. Gainesville was picked for this 
year’s tour because it’s a highly populated college town.
Guiremand has been protesting male circumcision nation-
wide for about 20 years. He said he ﬁ  ghts for the babies who can’t speak for themselves.
“These babies cry because they do not want to be cut,” 
Guiremand said. “If somebody attacked your genitals with a 
knife, you’d be screaming, too.” 
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.orgCIRCUMCISION,  from pg.1A baby was among 
the bloodied 
protesters Thursday 
afternoonByrd has said she is one of many 
directors who have been essentially pushed out of the department.
•   •   •
On Feb. 1, Roxie Patton, the for-
mer director for LGBTQ Affairs, an-nounced she would leave for a posi-
tion at the College of William & Mary 
on Feb. 23, citing a new opportunity elsewhere.  
On Feb. 7, Byrd announced she 
would leave for a position at Florida State College at Jacksonville, citing a changing university and new op-portunity elsewhere, according to Al-ligator archives. 
On Feb. 20, Krystie Nguyen, the 
director of APIA Affairs, sent in her resignation, citing a need for self-care.
Despite what their exit interviews 
said, however, deep tension may have contributed to their departures.
But outgoing and former directors 
said the department’s damaging cul-
ture made them leave. Ambassadors 
said some directors made them feel unsafe in their offices.
For Byrd, the final straw was 
when she said she was overlooked for the interim executive director po-sition after former MCDA executive director Lloren Foster’s contract was not renewed in September, accord-
ing to Alligator archives. 
Documents between Mary Kay 
Carodine, the assistant vice president 
for Student Affairs, and UF Human Resources show Foster was fired for multiple reasons, including lack of 
leadership, failure to meet deadlines 
and inappropriate communication — including him asking someone if they were having sex.
“Sex helps your skin look clear,” 
Foster said, according to the HR doc-
ument. 
Byrd said Carodine asked if she 
would consider the interim role. 
But after Byrd went on personal 
leave, she came back to discover 
she wouldn’t be getting the position, despite feeling like she met qualifica-tions. 
That same day, Byrd told Caro-
dine she was leaving UF. 
“I felt like I was backed into a 
corner, because there’s only so many times you’re going to get to disre-
spect me when I know what I bring 
to the table for the department,” Byrd said. For Patton, every day in the office 
came with anxiety. She said Krystie Nguyen, the former director of APIA 
Affairs, harassed her, mocking her 
partner and disability until Patton was desperate to leave. 
After hearing APIA ambassadors’ 
similar experiences, Patton said she wishes she came forward with the legal action she considered.
“It is the most toxic environment 
I have ever worked in in my entire 
life,” Patton said. 
Patton said the issue wasn’t only 
Nguyen, but the work culture that 
allowed the situation to continue. 
She said several people were aware 
of her problems but were scared to speak up, in fear of being fired by Carodine.
Carodine said when the adminis-
tration learned of the situation, they tried mediation and opened an in-vestigation.
Patton said more could have been 
done.
“There’s a sense of if I speak up, 
if I say anything wrong, I’ll be next on the chopping block,” Patton said.
Following news of Nguyen’s plan 
to resign, allegations surfaced detail-ing instances of her asking students to fold her laundry and clean her dishes.
Madeleine Hill, an executive di-
rector for Gatorship, a program un-der MCDA, said she feels the depart-ment is crumbling.
“It’s a perfect storm of bulls--- 
and an administration that’s trying really hard in all the wrong places,” Hill said.
•   •   •
MCDA began in 2002 under the 
Dean of Student’s Office. When Carodine moved from her position 
as an assistant dean to assistant vice 
president, five departments, includ-ing MCDA, moved with her to Stu-dent Affairs.
Carodine said since then, eight 
new positions were created, includ-ing an LGBTQ Affairs director in 2004 and an APIA Affairs director in 2011. 
She said she requested the 2018 
to 2019 budget to include funding for a full-time associate director, a direc-tor of intercultural engagement and 
another program coordinator. 
She said the three recent resigna-
tions are an opportunity for the in-
coming executive director to choose their own team.
•   •   •
Alex Cena, the director of APIA 
Affairs from 2013 to 2016, said MC-DA’s purpose is unclear. 
“Where’s MCDA going? What is 
the five, 10-year plan?” Cena said. “What is the mandate from the uni-versity to MCDA?”
Cena said the lack of clarity 
leaves directors confused about their roles and what to focus on.
Carodine said MCDA’s purpose is 
to support, educate and advocate for 
students from different backgrounds. 
She said directors should know about their area and be able to work with students and stakeholders. 
On Wednesday night, Carodine 
and Parrott met with some MCDA ambassadors to talk about their con-cerns. They’ve held previous meet-ings with ambassadors, specifically 
those from APIA concerned about 
Nguyen. 
Hearing from Parrott gave Ka-
limah Ujaama, a Black Affairs am-
bassador, hope for the department. 
She said Parrott listens to students and seems willing to take action, but she’s still cautious to trust them. 
“If we can fix the internal prob-
lems with MCDA, such as hiring new people, hiring a new team, if we can fix the trust, the lack of trust that we don’t have and the lack of 
transparency and accountability, I 
think once that happens MCDA will be all right,” she said.
•   •   •
Carodine said reference and 
background checks for some previ-ous candidates weren’t “to the cali-
ber it needed to (be).”
Moving forward, she said there 
will be extensive background checks. 
Although the search for an  execu-
tive director is ending, there will be 
three new search committees created to fill vacant director roles.
Ujaama said in the executive 
search committee, some offices 
within MCDA weren’t represented.
Madeleine Hill, a Gatorship ex-
ecutive director, said the committee 
appeared stacked in favor of internal 
candidates: current interim execu-
tive director Will Atkins and current interim associate director Gabe Lara. 
“The least charitable reading I 
can give is that she’s trying to stack 
it in favor of Gabe and Will, and the 
most charitable reading is she didn’t even consider it,” she said. •   •   •
Byrd said her department was 
made to fight on behalf of communi-ties it represented.
Yet as a director, Byrd said she 
did more fighting in-house than out, receiving the most support from stu-dents rather than the professionals in 
the office. 
Byrd said her last month at UF 
was one of the worst months of her 
career. She said that in an HR meet-ing with Carodine, she was told not 
to be vocal about her concerns and 
to write down her feelings instead. 
“If that’s the group dynamic, 
then that’s something that we need 
to work on, not telling me to be qui-
et so that everybody else is happy, because I’m damn miserable in the process,” Byrd said
Lara, the interim associate direc-
tor and current director of Hispanic-Latino Affairs, has been working for a year and a half, watching seven people leave or be fired. 
“A lot of people didn’t expect me 
to last longer than a year or two,” Lara said. “But like I said in the (ex-ecutive director) interview, I believe in MCDA.”
Lara said seeing colleagues leave 
can be disheartening after building friendship with them. 
“At the same time, I understand 
why some left, why they needed to leave, why they weren’t happy. I get that,” he said, pausing for a mo-ment. “It makes you wonder.”
•   •   •
Cristobal Gonzalez, the graduate 
assistant for the Institute of Hispanic and Latino Cultures in 2015  said 
during his time, the administration 
appeared to be in shuffle. 
Although Gonzalez had a good 
working relationship with Carodine, 
he said she micromanaged. 
Hill, who works closely with 
Carodine on Gatorship, also said she 
can micromanage. Hill said Carodine is deeply involved with students and 
cares for them and fostering diver-
sity, but she said Carodine can be resistant to feedback and surrounds herself with people who agree with 
her, causing some to be intimidated 
voicing opinions.
“The expectation is definitely that 
we’re gonna just go by her vision,” Hill said.
Carodine said if she gives benefits 
or promotions to certain people, it’s because they’ve done their jobs well.“I believe that when each per-
son in each department fulfills the 
goals we have set, then you get to do 
more,” she said.
Hill said Carodine may have con-
tributed to a “crumbling MCDA,” but doesn’t think it’s solely her fault. 
She said it’s a structural problem.
Hill wants to see change, espe-
cially as a student who once benefit-
ed from the security and comfort of 
the LGBTQ Affairs office before quit-
ting in Fall, saying the environment grew tense after Patton was hired.
“There’s all this stuff about stu-
dents having a voice,” she said. 
“But a lot of the time it feels like we 
don’t.”
Carodine said students do have 
power — the power to create the 
environment they want, to weigh in 
on searches and to create their own activities. 
“In a way, too, that rebuilds that 
to being the kind of space that we 
can all believe in,” she said. 
Byrd, Patton, Gonzalez, Hill, 
Cena and Ujaama are acknowledged 
there was no easy fix for the depart-
ment. But Byrd said acknowledging 
the problem comes first.
“I think there needs to be some 
personnel changes in things that are done,” Byrd said. “But I also don’t 
think it’s going to happen.”
•   •   •
A planned review will look at 
MCDA within the year, Carodine 
said. The review, done in part by 
an undetermined outside group, will 
make recommendations for future courses of action, Parrott said. 
An upcoming forum with UF 
President Kent Fuchs is also being planned, Carodine said. 
Agassy Rodriguez, an ambassa-
dor with the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, said he still remem-
bers when he learned Eric Castillo, 
the former director of the institute from 2011 to 2013, was leaving. 
Rodriguez said he trusted and 
confided in Castillo, one of the few Latino faculty members Rodriguez knew. 
He said he felt heartbroken, un-
able to confide in anyone else.
“As a student, you see profession-
als who look like you saying, ‘This is not a place for me,’” Rodriguez said. “What kind of a message does that 
send to the students?”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
MCDA,  from pg.1‘It’s the most toxic environment I have ever worked in.’
FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTESBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
When Liz Getman was 19, she 
struggled with anorexia. 
At 25, it almost killed her.
Now 29, the UF alumna has 
channeled her ﬁ  ght into a video 
spotlighting self-love, in recogniz-
tion of National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, held Feb. 26 to March 4, she said. 
With the support of friends and 
family, she recovered in 2014 and has learned to value her body. 
She wanted to create a positive 
video to help destigmatize eating 
disorders.
Getman, who graduated from 
UF in 2015 with a master’s degree 
in Latin-American studies, worked with ﬁ  ve UF journalism and com-munications students and UF pro-fessor Iman Zawahry to produce the one-minute video, which in-cludes people of different races, 
religions and body types holding 
handmade signs displaying some-thing they like about their bodies. .
They dance and laugh with one 
another, proudly displaying their happiness.
“We are all strong, capable be-
ings,” Getman said. “It’s impor-tant to reﬂ  ect on our own sense of 
worth.” 
The video was posted on Za-
wahry’s Facebook page Tuesday 
and has been viewed more than 5,200 times as of Thursday
National Eating Disorders 
Awareness Week was organized by the National Eating Disorders As-sociation to bring attention to the 
disorders and promote recovery 
resources.
Trevor Storch, 21, is seen to-
ward the end of the video with his shirt off and muscles ﬂ  exed.
“I’m sexy” is scrawled in purple 
ink on his torso. While helping to create the video, the UF telecom-munication senior agreed to be part 
of it to show support.
Storch said he’s been skinny 
all his life and still has moments 
of negative self-image. He hopes people of all genders ﬁ  nd a positive message in the video.
“No matter where you’re from, 
what you look like, how old you are, how young you are — love 
yourself, and others around you 
will love you as well,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
While many students leave Gainesville for 
Spring Break, UF student Stephanie Bittner will be spending much of her time with a 7-month-old kitten named Nala.
She’ll be joined by a dog, gerbil, turtle, ﬁ  sh 
and two cats, which belong to Bittner.
The UF food and resource economics se-
nior  has turned her passion for taking care of animals into a job. For the past four years, the 23-year-old owner of UF Pet Sitting has offered to take care of pets year-round, taking care of dogs and cats for between $7 and $14 a visit.
But every Spring Break, pet sitters like  
Bittner, and Gainesville resident Stephanie Dorris see a spike in business.
Dorris, 53, owner and operator of A Dog’s 
Life Pet Sitting, said she stops by about 10 to 15 apartments and homes every day during Spring Break. With many students traveling away from Gainesville, pet owners will leave their animals behind, Dorris said.
“The demand is usually high for this week,” 
she said. “It keeps me busy.”
She charges between $15 and $20 depend-
ing on the pet.
Bittner uses the website Rover to schedule 
her pet visits, which allow owners to track her 
with a GPS map.
“I provide reliability and accountability,” 
she said.
She has more than 12 customers for next 
week, including Caridad Santos, Nala’s owner.Santos, who was looking for a pet sitter for 
Spring Break, said Brittner offered her pet-sit-
ting services on a Facebook page. 
Santos said she doesn’t mind paying $10 a 
day for Brittner to look after Nala. 
“It’s hard enough to have an animal in col-
lege, but anything helps,” she said.
Bittner will take time off from her job at 
PetSmart to concentrate on pet sitting.
“I like to get to know (the pets), she said. 
@merylkornﬁ  eldUF alumna, students 
produce video to show body-positivity
Gainesville pet sitters prepare for Spring Break rushBy Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Nyssa Retter will do whatever it 
takes to keep her ﬁ  ve children safe. 
So when the 32-year-old mother 
took notice of cars speeding by her 
children’s stopped school bus go-
ing what she believed was about 60 
mph, she said she had to act.
For the past two months, the 
Archer resident has been ﬁ  lming 
cars speeding past the bus stop on 
Southwest Archer Road as children boarded for school, she said.
The videos are now being used 
as evidence for county law enforce-ment to prove drivers are violating state statute 316.172, which states that drivers must come to “a full 
stop” when a school bus displays a 
stop signal.
Retter said she hopes she can 
raise awareness for the safety issue by ﬁ  lming the speeding cars.
“No matter how responsible my 
kids are, it’s not safe,” she said.
According to the statute, failing to 
stop for a school bus could cost driv-
ers up to $200.
Deputy Drew Davis, a school re-
source deputy in Alachua County, 
has parked by the bus stop 11 times since Retter began ﬁ  lming, he said.
While Davis and other deputies have been stationed next to the bus stop, no drivers have violated the law, he said. 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
initiates Operation Bluebird every school year to remind the public to stop for loading school busses, Davis said.
Next year, Retter’s area will be a 
focus for increased safety measures, he said.
“The two seconds that you save 
when passing a bus is not worth a child’s life,” Davis said.
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org
HE WAS CAUGHT SITTING 
IN ANOTHER VEHICLE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was caught 
stealing from a truck after he stole from a Gainesville Police patrol car Thursday, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
A 911 caller said they saw Luis 
Anthony Velez, 19, inside a parked GPD patrol car at the Reserves at Kanapaha, located at 4440 SW Ar-cher Road, at about 2:39 a.m., ac-cording to an arrest report. 
The witness said he was wearing 
red shorts and a black Puma jacket, according to an ACSO Facebook post.
When an ACSO deputy arrived, 
Velez, matching the description the witness gave, was sitting in the driver’s seat of a gray Ford truck that 
did not belong to him, according to 
the report. The truck’s owner said he didn’t have permission to be inside his truck.
The owner also said his center 
console was previously closed, but after Velez was found in it, the con-sole was open and items that were inside were missing, according to an arrest report.
ACSO said Velez could not ex-
plain why he was there, even though he had a trespass warning. 
Deputies found a GPD-issued 
camera, which was taken from the patrol car, on the truck Velez was found in, according to the post. 
Police arrested Velez on charges 
of burglary, theft of law enforcement equipment and trespassing. Authori-ties took him to Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $70,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgMom enlists ACSO to catch speeders
ACSO: Man caught stealing from GPDThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Being anti-abortion, or ‘pro-life,’ is hypocritical 
In the spirit of controversial news, let’s 
talk about abortion. Something that has always struck me as odd, not to mention hypocritical, is that so many people who consider themselves to be anti-abortion 
don’t seem to care much about the life of the child or mother after the baby is born.
Most affiliates of the anti-abortion club 
hinge their membership on the idea that abortion is murder. All accusations of mur-der aside, the legality of abortion should be a question of the quality of life the child and the mother are going to have after the birth of the child, not a ques-tion of murder.
Contrary to popular conservative belief, women get 
abortions when the only options they have left would leave the child with a slim chance of living a happy life, not because they lack morality.
Sometimes, women become pregnant when they 
don’t have the time, money or readiness to raise a child. Women in such a position are left with three options: Raise a child they do not want and often cannot sup-port, give the child up for adoption or terminate the pregnancy. Without much thought, the first two options seem like logical alternatives to abortion. Unfortunate-ly, the future they hold is bleak. 
If a mother keeps a child she cannot financially care 
for, it’s likely the child will be raised in poverty. Look-ing at this from a statistical standpoint, children who grow up in poverty are much worse off than those who don’t. They’re 11.4-percent more likely to drop out of high school, 14.3-percent more likely to experience food insufficiency and 4.6-percent more likely to be involved in reported cases of child abuse and neglect, according to a 1997 Princeton University study on the effects pov-erty has on children.
Adoption, although sometimes a safe and viable op-tion, inevitably creates a host of issues. Even if a mother gives her child up for adoption, she is forced to endure nine months of an un-desired pregnancy. This means nine months of morning sickness, fatigue and general dis-comfort. A woman will have to take off work for the actual birth, and if she is still in school at the time of the pregnancy, it is likely she will not finish that year of school and will not graduate on time, if she graduates at all. 
Unless a woman is lucky enough to find 
parents to adopt the baby right after its birth, the child will be put into the foster care system. Issues with the foster care system are plentiful, to say the least. While in the system, children often face abuse and neglect, and only so many actually get adopted. 
I am aware that in rare cases women are able to 
successfully raise an unwanted child and live a happy, prosperous life with them. I am just as aware that in infrequent cases, adoption goes smoothly and a child is left with a loving and supportive family. However, in the much more common cases, abortion can be a far more logical option and should not be off the table for any woman in America.
Many women cannot bear the thought of bringing 
a child into this world only for it to live a life of pov-erty, misery and struggle. Anti-abortion advocates are downright misguided if they believe forcing a child to live a life like this is morally preferable to terminating a pregnancy. I beg anyone claiming to be anti-abortion to explore the very definition of their appellation. By as-serting yourself as anti-abortion, you claim to recognize the importance of a life. In this same sense, I urge you to recognize the importance of the quality of life you are forcing upon this unborn fetus. 
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Fridays.If you’re reading this, then your Spring Break probably 
hasn’t started yet. Or maybe it has, and while your friends are off on their expensive cruises or visiting their parents, you’re in good ol’ Gainesville. Or maybe you’re a dedicated student and are determined to show up to lecture with the five other people in the 200-person hall. Whatever it is, we are honored that on this blessed final day before Spring Break, you’ve de-cided to pick up a copy of your local newspaper and flip open to the pre-Spring Break …
Darts & Laurels
So perjury sucks right? We’re all familiar with the whole 
Bill Clinton “I did not have sexual relations with that wom-an” schtick. We all know that it can ruin someone’s political career. So it comes as no surprise that people from both sides of the political spectrum are shaking their heads at Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who denied having contact with Rus-sia during his confirmation hearing, which apparently is not true. It’s a bit of a mess, to put it lightly, and both parties are calling for an explanation. Obviously, Jeff Sessions gets a dart, for not learning from literally every other political horror story of perjury.
But hey, it’s Spring Break, so shouldn’t we be talking about 
something more fun than old white guys in Washington D.C.? How about the fact that last week NASA found not one, not two — but seven planets potentially capable of supporting life? That’s pretty darn exciting. We spend so much time fo-cused on the world around us, bogged down by the same old political problems and the same old battle cries threatening to tear us apart that we forget in the grand scheme of things, we are just specks floating in space. There’s a whole universe out there to explore folks; a whole glistening, endless world that we are only just beginning to get a glimpse of. So a laurel to NASA, to space, to a reminder that existence is 
more than just our day-to-day troubles. Keep that in mind as you worry about your Spring Break deadlines.
Now the obligatory segue back to politics. But hey, since 
it’s Spring Break, let’s have some fun and put a twist on it. We’re not going to talk about old white guys in D.C. this time, but young, hunky guys in Canada. That’s right, Cana-dian Prime Minister, and your newest political crush, Justin Trudeau. Move aside JFK, the throne of resident North Amer-ican hot political leader has been taken. Some old photos of Trudeau popped up on the internet this week, showing us that this beautiful man has always, in fact, been beautiful. He can even make quilted vests and poofy ’80s hair look good. And that’s not to mention his commitment to reversing climate change and opening his sleeveless, muscled arms to refugees. We’re not Canadian political experts by any means, but right now, compared to our current political leader, we’re just a little jealous. Anyway, a laurel to Trudeau for caus-
ing us severe leader envy.
Finally, we’re wrapping this up with a dart to the Price-
waterhouseCoopers accountants responsible for the infa-mous Oscars mix-up last Sunday night. We won’t dwell too long on this, but we just want to say that “Moonlight” — an independent drama about a gay black man, featuring not a single white person, a movie about the LGBTQ+ commu-nity where no one died, a movie about black people where they weren’t maids or slaves or some white person’s pity project — winning Best Picture was an important moment. It shouldn’t be reduced to having to share the stage. “Moon-light” deserves better than this. Its producers and directors deserved a full moment on stage — and a headline all their own. 
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORAbigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
On the third ﬂ  oor of Turlington 
Hall, there aren’t any windows. At least none that professors and 
teaching assistants, huddled in 
their dingy, cramped ofﬁ  ces can 
see. The walls are gray, or might as well be, and its narrow corridors taste of stale 
air. It’s cold. 
Contrast that with the $35 million Heav-
ener Hall, whose open, spacious halls brim 
with sunlight and are plastered with inspir-ing messages in soft whites and blues.
Variations on these two themes can be 
seen across UF’s historic campus, where some old, red brick buildings wither away from years of infrastructural neglect, while 
others embody luxury. This disparity is to 
be expected, to a degree (renovations can’t happen all at once), and while some build-ings like Newell Hall and the O’Connell Center undergo repairs, others will neces-
sarily wait untouched. 
But it’s worth asking whether new in-
stallations like Heavener, Cypress, and In-
ﬁ  nity Halls are worth the expense, despite 
a steadying undergraduate enrollment and a handful of buildings like Turl-
ington in need of updates. 
Here’s where a typical story 
might slip into scandal, expos-ing reckless spending ﬁ  gures and gross lack of oversight with regard to planning projects. 
But this is not a typical story. 
Instead, I’ve found UF runs a surprisingly transparent Plan-ning, Design, and Construction Division complete with building reports 
for each year, clear and accessible project 
lists that quote budget ﬁ  gures and initia-tives dedicated to the preservation and upkeep of our campus’ historic buildings. 
Campus and community representatives 
were included in the development of a 10-year Campus Master Plan, which was then presented for screening by “the four joint Faculty Senate committees of Lakes, Veg-
etation and Landscaping (LVL), Preserva-
tion of Historic Buildings and Sites (PHBS), Parking and Transportation Advisory Com-mittee (PTAC), and Land Use and Facilities 
Planning (LUFPC).”Not only that, but UF ﬁ  nan-
cial reports are easily acces-
sible online. They break down 
revenues and expenditures in 
simple language that non-ac-countants can understand. A quick read ﬁ  nds little to manu-
facture outrage about — com-
pared with the other major pub-lic Florida schools (University of Central Florida, University of 
South Florida or Florida State University) 
and comparatively sized out-of-state pub-
lic schools (University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Ohio State University), UF’s operating expenses break down simi-
larly. We could arguably spend more on 
scholarships and fellowships for students, but more on that in a later column.
At present, what can seem like a boring 
trail of numbers and account information 
actually amounts to a rarity in the world 
of university spending: a university en-couraging itself to be held accountable by the community it serves. On each of the 
above sites you’ll ﬁ  nd feedback forms, and the accessibility of the accounts keeps the 
information easy to check against national statistics. That means the dollar ﬁ  gures rel-
evant to you (rising tuition costs, ﬁ  nancial 
aid disbursements, etc.) can be checked and double checked against other universi-ties and against alternative budgetary al-
locations to ensure UF is doing the most it 
can to aid its students.
UF placed 50th on U.S. & World News’ 
ranking for best colleges. Such institutional clout inevitably leads to more donations 
and greater surpluses with which to spend, 
an advantage smaller, struggling universi-ties don’t have. But, as Harvard University  and Yale University show, multibillion-
dollar endowments do not always lead 
to careful spending practices. We should acknowledge that our university oper-ates with the student (and the taxpayer) in mind and other universities, as well as 
the legislatures and donors that fund them, 
should take note. 
Champe Barton is a UF economics and 
psychology junior. His column appears on 
Fridays. 
Our university oﬀ  ers a lesson in smart spending and ﬁ  nancial transparencyColumn
Champe Barton
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A former Macy’s employee was arrested 
Wednesday with the personal information, 
such as social security numbers and dates of birth, of 61 people, authorities said.
At about noon, a Florida Highway Patrol  
trooper pulled over Raynard Vinton Newton, 35, of Tampa, for speeding, tailgating and us-ing the wrong blinker when changing lanes on Interstate 75, according to an arrest report.
When the trooper pulled him over near 
Micanopy, Florida, the smell of marijuana prompted the trooper to search the vehicle.
The trooper found a cup with marijuana 
residue in the center console of Newton’s 
car, according to the report. In the trunk, the 
trooper found a large blue plastic container containing clothes and a yellow envelope.
The envelope had pieces of paper with names, dates of birth, so-cial security numbers and unidentiﬁ  ed account num-
bers of 61 people, accord-
ing to the report. None of 
this information matched personal information for Newton. 
After his arrest, Newton 
told FHP he got the names 
and account numbers when he was an em-ployee at Macy’s, according to the report. He 
said when customers called in he saved their 
information.
Police arrested Newton on 61 counts of 
fraudulent impersonation. Authorities took him to Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $610,000 bond. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgBy Rachel Porter 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers may have discovered a 
cheaper way to deter pests from avocado trees.
Researchers with the Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences, in a study published Feb. 18, found a repellent, made from methyl 
salicylate, that deters beetles on avocado trees. 
The chemical is emitted by the redbay tree, which is similar to avocado plants, said Xavier Martini, a UF professor of entomology at the 
institute’s North Florida Research and Educa-
tion Center in Quincy, Florida. 
The chemical will prevent redbay ambro-
sia beetles from injecting deadly laurel wilt fungus into the trees, which grow mainly in southern Miami-Dade County, Florida.
Florida avocados contribute $100 million a 
year to Florida’s economy, according to a UF press release.
Martini said researchers tested the chemi-
cals on redbay trees and will begin testing its 
efﬁ  ciency on avocado trees within a year. 
“We have a 90-percent reduction on the at-
tacks from beetles on our logs,” he said. 
Avocado growers use verbenone to repel 
the beetles, but it costs about $500 per kilo-
gram, Martini said. When verbenone is com-bined with methyl salicylate, it will be cheap-er. 
Mark Philcox, the president of Grove Ser-
vices Miami Inc., said because of the fungus, it’s hard for growers to decide if they should grow avocados in the ﬁ  rst place.
“It’s costing between $100 and $125 a tree 
to dispose of it, and it’s affecting the produc-tion,” Philcox said. “When you replant a tree it takes seven years before it’s in full produc-tion, so that’s money out on that end too.”FHP: Former Macy’s employee 
stole identities of 61 peopleResearchers discover chemical 
that can save avocado trees
Newton
FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
YAPPY HOUR
Madison Schwartz, an 18-year-old UF linguistics freshman, gives treats to dogs Siggi, a Havenese, and 
Gabe, a Shi-tzu, at the Yappy Hour event at the UF Counseling & Wellness Center on Thursday. The two dogs are there every Thursday from 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. for anyone who is feeling stressed.
HE DONATED TO THE 
ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP 
INSTITUTE. 
By Gabrielle Rueda
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF alumnus gave $1.5 million to a UF 
Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering pro-
gram to teach students leadership skills. 
William Wadsworth, who graduated from 
the UF in 1976 with a bachelor’s degree in civil 
engineering, signed a check for the donation in February. He said he wanted to give back 
to the university by donating to the college’s Engineering Leadership Institute.
The institute, which has been running for 
six years, provides students with special class-es in leadership and communications, said 
Wadsworth, the former vice president of the 
engineering company HDR Inc.
“It’s a very focused institute within the Col-
lege of Engineering, to give the engineering students something different from purely tech-nical know-how,” he said.
Franklin Hagenbeck, the institute’s direc-
tor, said since 2010, about 2,100 students have been enrolled in classes through the institute.
“It’s all about our students gaining and un-
derstanding a perspective of leadership within an engineering framework,” Hagenbeck said.
He said the money donated by Wadsworth 
will be used for scholarships, sending students 
to conferences and expanding the institute. 
“The fact (Wadsworth) was willing to pay 
back, if you will, both to the University of Flor-
ida and the College of Engineering in particular speaks volumes about the kind of person he is,” Hagenbeck said.
The largest donation made to the college 
came from UF alumnus Herbert Wertheim, who donated $50 million and for whom the college is named
Wadsworth said he also wanted to donate 
because he thinks the institute teaches future engineers valuable skills.
He said when his company hired engineers 
and scientists from universities, they had good technical skills but lacked communication skills.
“It’s kind of like taking the technical side of 
engineering and then adding to it how to get along with people, how to communicate ideas, how to work as a team,” he said.UF alumnus donates $1.5 million to engineering program
CLASSES BEGIN 
SATURDAY. 
By T aylor Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County and UF are team-
ing up to offer classes in sustainabil-ity this month.
Starting Saturday, the classes, 
which have been offered before, are 
open to anyone with beginner to in-
termediate experience in gardening, said Denise DeBusk, an environ-mental and community horticulture agent. Most of the classes will take place at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, located at 2800 NE 39th Ave.
“The majority of these classes are 
workshops,” DeBusk said. “They give a baseline of how to either grow food or grow plants, as well as how to protect the environment.”
The classes include Managing 
your Pests on your Favorite Plants, which is free, Vegetable Gardening 101, Irrigating your Edible Garden and Water Efﬁ  ciently. They cost be-tween $5 and $35 per person.
Previous classes have held more 
than 70 students but will now only have 25 to 30 available seats for more hands-on experience. 
Small sizes will be an advantage, 
especially in the vegetable gardening 
class, she said. 
“Some of the new ones — the 
Vegetable Gardening 101 — they are 
actually going to get to build a square-foot garden,” DeBusk said.
Ella Donaho, 22, said she plans to 
attend the Irrigating your Edible Gar-den program March 14. She has been gardening since she was 10. 
“I want to go so I know how not to 
over-irrigate, and what’s the proper amount, so I don’t destroy my edible garden,” the UF sustainability and the built environment senior said. 
She said she’s excited to see what 
the class can offer her and how much she can learn. 
“I want to be able to get the qual-
ity that I want out of my edible gar-den, while still being productive and healthy.”Alachua County, UF 
oﬀ  er gardening classesFRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray. Odorless, Long Lasting.Available: Hardware Stores,The Home Depot, homedepot.com.Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!      3-3-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
TEACHER FOR 1 yr old & 4 yr old
CLASSES FT/PT. Prefer experience with 45 
DCF hours and a FCCPC. $8.75 - $12 / hr. 
Call 352-375-8900     3-16-5-14
Marketing Representative wanted
Full time. Must me self-motivated and outgo-
ing. Please email resume to:
office@servproacw.com.      3-16-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
AIRLINE SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeksnot years to become acertified aircraft dispatcher.Job placement assistance.Call AIM 888-242-2649.         3-3-1-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Medical Billing and CodingCareer Training at Sullivan andCogliano Training CentersCall 1-888-535-9909 orclick learn.sctrain.edu Financial Aid Available to those who qualify. SCtrain.edu/disclosures       3-3-1-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334-7726 and make a REAL connection.      3-3-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.QuickBooks and PayrollCareer Training at Sullivan andCogliano Training CentersCall 1-888-535-9909 or
click learn.sctrain.edu
Financial Aid Available to those who qualify. 
SCtrain.edu/disclosures      3-3-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years. Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305      3-3-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Test in which
contrasts are
helpful, briefly
4 __ stiff
10 Minor set-to14 Huffington Post
owner
15 Wedding offering
16 Defunct food
coating
17 Domestic
shamelessness?
20 Boundary
21 Legal tender with
a torch
22 Dealer’s offering
23 __ voce25 Body shop
supply
26 Near giveaway at
the liquor store?
30 2016 Billboard
Top Artist
31 Besides Linus,
the only Nobel
laureate in two
fields
32 Take badly?
35 Alluring36 Postgame staple37 Candy __38 Feb. setting in
Spokane
39 Artist at Giverny40 Opposite of 
56-Across
41 Fort Knox?43 Philosophers’
group
46 “Cutthroat
Kitchen” hostBrown
47 Second name,
perhaps
48 “Zounds!”51 They’re often
tough to beat
53 Result of way too
many leaves inthe eaves?
56 Opposite of 
40-Across
57 Album contents58 ENT’s group59 Arcade
trademark word
60 Part of many art
museum names
61 Table support
DOWN
1 Ancient spell
caster
2 Produce stand
sites
3 “My turn”4 Part of NSF: Abbr.
5 Telling it like it is
6 Opposition
leader?
7 First name in
Chicago politics
8 It’s thrust in
competition
9 Phone button
letters
10 Without
aggression
11 Zeus remains
largely neutral
during its
narrative
12 “A dagger of the
mind, a __
creation ... ”:Macbeth
13 Potatoes may be
cooked in one
18 Unloose19 How stand-up
comics usuallywork
24 Ring site25 Salon sound
26 [I’m shocked!]
27 Enhance through
change
28 Showed
impatience, in away
29 Poetry Muse32 One moving with
frequency?
33 Russian
Orthodox church
feature
34 City on the Aare36 Kaiser, for one37 Songs of Seville39 Maine road sign
image
40 Nothing41 Buffalo Bill feature42 Really loving43 Generational tales44 Barnyard sound45 Request to a
dealer
48 Verify the story of49 Above the
crossbar andbetween theuprights
50 Forced bet52 Obstruction54 Tach stat
55 SEAL’s org.
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/24/1702/24/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 24, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The Florida women's basketball team, led by Ronni Williams, lost to T exas A&M on Thursday, 67-48, eliminating UF from the SEC T ournament in the second round. Read the story, pg. 14 UF linebacker reminisces on big hit vs. LSU QB 
Vosean Joseph still gets attention for his hit on QB Danny Etling last season. 
“I don’t really like to watch it like that because I’ve seen it so much, " Joseph 
said on Thursday. "Every time I check my Twitter or my Instagram somebody is tagging me in it. I just be like ‘ahhhh. ’”By Ian Cohen 
Sports Writer
After Canyon Barry ﬁ  nished his 
last regular-season home game on 
Wednesday, collecting a team-high 14 points, four rebounds, three assists and one emphatic block, coach Mike White 
delivered a message to would-be award 
voters.
“He’s gonna be the sixth man of the 
year in this league,” White said. “Or I’m going to throw a ﬁ  t.”
On many other Division I teams, 
Barry, a graduate transfer, would be a starter. He chose to play at Florida last summer in order to help bolster 
an NCAA Tournament team and make 
a postseason run in his ﬁ  nal year of college basketball.
And despite coming off the bench, 
Barry averages 22 minutes per game — comparable to starting forward Justin Leon. Barry is also second on the team at 12.4 points per game despite battling 
through a few minor ankle injuries this 
season.
“He could’ve chose some other 
schools where maybe the coach prom-ised him he’s gonna start, or maybe he plays 38 minutes and gets 25 (points) a game,” White said. “But he decided to 
come be a part of something special. 
“He’s as unselﬁ  sh as you can get.”
Hill redeeming himself in ﬁ  nal 
year:
Every now and again, the voice on 
the other end of the phone will make an unusual request of White: If I come visit Florida, can I meet Kasey Hill?
“YouTube him,” White said of Hill. “He was a national phenomenon.”
So much so, White said, that poten-
tial recruits often ask to see Hill during on-campus visits. They still remember the Montverde Academy point guard crossing over defenders, executing spin 
moves in the paint and making no-look, 
behind-the-back passes. Videos of Hill have racked up hundreds of thousands of views.And while many expected Hill, a for-
mer ﬁ  ve-star recruit, to have an immedi-ate impact at Florida, things never quite came together for the highly touted point guard. 
Until this season.
“He’s under the microscope,” White 
said. “He’s shown a lot of mental tough-
ness.” Barry makes case for sixth man award, 
Hill redeeming himself in ﬁ  nal season
Keith Stone stood in the right corner as 
Canyon Barry drove toward the basket.
With no more room to operate, Barry 
kicked the ball out to Stone, who launched 
a contested three-pointer as the shot clock 
expired. 
Stone hadn’t made a shot from beyond the arc in 
over a month.
He swished it, giving No. 12 Florida a command-
ing lead over the Razorbacks with under six minutes to play in Wednesday night’s game. 
On none other than Senior Night, what a moment 
for the redshirt freshman.
Prior to Wednesday night, Stone had been in a 
major offensive slump.
After scoring a career-high 17 points against Geor-
gia on Jan. 14, Stone hadn’t scored more than two points in a game, including eight scoreless contests. He’d hit one of his last 20 shots from the ﬂ  oor and was 0-for-14 on three-pointers.
That all changed against Arkansas.Stone scored eight points on 3-for-4 shooting and 
grabbed three critical rebounds in nine minutes of action.
UF coach Mike White wasn’t sure his team would 
have won the game without Stone’s effective play.
White also added that Stone had some of his best 
practices since his slump began in the days leading up to the Arkansas game.
“He showed signs probably 10 days ago,” White 
said. “The last two days were the best two practices he’s had in six, eight weeks… . We thought he was getting closer and closer.
“He’s gaining some conﬁ  dence back.”
And at a good time, too.
With just one regular season game remaining 
— a Saturday afternoon contest against Vanderbilt in Nashville — Florida is one step away from the postseason, where it will need to be playing its best basketball of the year.
Since the 2013-14 season, the Gators haven’t 
made an NCAA Tournament appearance, and they’ve failed to advance past the quarterﬁ  nals of the 
SEC Tournament. 
With a shot to erase the team’s recent mediocrity, 
Florida will need a collective effort to go as deep as it 
can into March — especially considering the absence of center John Egbunu, sidelined with a torn ACL.
With the “smooth” now back in Stone’s game, 
there’s no telling how far the Gators can go.
“He’s back playing like the way he was earlier in 
the season,” senior guard Kasey Hill said. “He got 
his conﬁ  dence back, and he’s playing great. We’re 
gonna need him to keep playing like that.
“And I think he can.”Stone’s play against 
Arkansas was a 
reassuring signHERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Canyon Barry shoots during Florida's 78-65 win over Arkansas on Wednesday. 
NOTEBOOK
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Senior Delanie Gourley struck out 12 
batters en route to earning her ﬁ  rst career 
perfect game as Florida (16-1) took down 
the Iowa Hawkeyes 8-0 in ﬁ  ve innings in its ﬁ  rst game of the Judi Garman Classic on Thursday.
The Gators' scoring began early with 
three runs recorded in the ﬁ  rst inning. After Iowa pitcher Shayla Starkenburg loaded the bases by walking Amanda Lorenz and Kayli Kvistad and drilling So-
phia Reynoso with the ball, it was then 
freshman Jaimie Hoover who got hit.
Bringing home Lorenz, it was the ﬁ  rst of Hoover’s three RBI’s in the game.
Two sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  ies brought home an-
other two runs, quickly making the score 3-0.  
In the second in-
ning, two more runs were scored after a sin-gle by Janell Wheaton, 
an RBI double by Lo-
renz and an RBI single from Hoover.
Florida scored again in the fourth in-
ning, when UF notched three of its six 
stolen bases.  
First it was Ocasio, who stole second 
and eventually reached third off a passed 
ball. Then it was Jackie Switzer, who, after pinch running for Kvistad, stole second base. And after Hoover knocked in her third RBI of the game, she stole a base as well. 
An RBI single from Jordan Roberts 
and a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y from Nicole DeWitt brought in the ﬁ  nal two runs of the game.
Lorenz, Hoover and Wheaton each 
had a pair of hits in the game.  
Meanwhile, Gourley, who threw 62 
pitches, notched the ﬁ  rst perfect game for Florida since Stephanie Brombacher in 2011.
In its second game of the day, Florida 
dominated Long Beach State in a 17-0 blowout.  Gourley tosses perfect game as UF wins two SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15Gourley
SOFTBALL14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Cruising down the floor of Bon Secours 
Wellness Arena in Greenville, South Carolina, 
Ronni Williams charged towards the basket with the ball in her hands before coming to a 
screeching halt at the free-throw line. 
In one fluid motion, the senior forward 
from Daytona Beach pulled up from 15 feet 
away with her defender off balance, nailing the mid-range jumper with ease.
It’s a signature move Williams has perfect-
ed over her career at UF, making opponents pay time and time again.
But that doesn’t matter anymore. Because  
following UF’s loss to Texas A&M in the second round of the SEC Tournament, Williams’ playing days in a Gators uniform were over. 
“I’ve been blessed for the opportunity and 
blessed to be here,” she said. “I wouldn’t 
change anything.”
Florida fell to the Aggies 67-48 on Thursday 
night after blowing a seven-point advantage in 
the first half to choke its season away.
UF took a 21-14 lead with 2:03 left in the 
second quarter after holding Texas A&M to 23-percent shooting in the first 20 minutes of play.
However, the Gators were unable to con-
tain the Aggies after that, allowing them to 
convert 16-of-26 field goals in the second half 
to seal the contest with a 19-point victory.
Williams concluded her four-year career at 
Florida with an 18-point performance off 8-of-
15 shooting from the floor. Freshman guard 
Delicia Washington and junior forward Haley 
Lorenzen contributed for UF as well, notching 
10 and eight points, respectively. After the game, Washington reflected at length on her 
one season playing with Williams. 
“I wouldn’t be the person I am now with-
out Ronni,” she said. “She’s my sister. She (will) always have a place in my heart. There 
is nobody that will ever take her spot. Ronni 
is that teammate I always wanted to play with 
no matter what, no matter that she’s not here anymore. I’ll still look up to her.” 
Williams answered with, “I love you.” “I love you too,” Washington answered 
back.
For the Aggies, junior center Khaalia Hills-
man led the way with 24 points and 11 re-
bounds. Sophomore guard Danni Williams 
also totaled double-figure scoring with 17 points, and senior guard Curtyce Knox tallied 
nine points and a game-high nine assists.
After Texas A&M’s ugly offensive perfor-
mance in the first half, it came out of the inter-mission with a bang.
Hillsman scored eight consecutive points 
to open the third quarter off of three made 
baskets in the interior coupled with a pair of 
free throws. A three-point jumper from Danni 
Williams at the top of the key then gave the 
Aggies a 29-27 advantage.
Later in the period, multiple field goals 
from Hillsman, sophomore forward Anriel 
Howard and senior forward Taylor Cooper 
sparked an 11-2 run for Texas A&M, blowing 
the lead wide open to shift all the momentum 
into its corner.
The Aggies finished out the game outscor-
ing the Gators 25-14 in the fourth quarter, sending Florida home with its sixth loss over its past nine SEC Tournament games.
UF finishes its season with a record of 15-
16, a mark not good enough to qualify for 
postseason play.
The Gators are well out of contention to 
receive an at-large bid from the NCAA Tour-
nament selection committee, and the WNIT requires all at-large teams to have a winning 
percentage of .500 or better.
Florida has only missed the postseason one 
other time under the tenure of head coach 
Amanda Butler, failing to qualify in 2015. 
“Our record did not demonstrate the suc-
cess we experienced this season,” coach Amanda Butler said. “In a way, that’s hard to know unless you were in our locker room. But 
I’m very proud of them.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida’s season ends with a whimper against Texas A&M
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams attempts a layup during Florida’s loss to Ole Miss on Feb. 6 in the 
O’Connell Center. Williams’ college career ended on Thursday. FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s ..$50.00  (74.75)
6........... $75.00 (103.50)
6+ .....$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th Street
Hill had 12 points, four assists and three 
rebounds during Florida’s 78-65 victory over 
Arkansas — his ﬁ  nal home game in the O’Connell Center — on Wednesday. He’s also putting up career-high numbers for the 
season, averaging 9.6 points, 4.8 assists and 
2.9 rebounds per game.
And while those numbers may fall short of 
the expectations that come with a ﬁ  ve-star re-
cruit, White said Hill has learned to measure 
his success in other ways.
“I know at times (the expectations) have 
been really hard on him, whether he admits it or not. And I only open up with that to show you how far he’s come,” White said. “And to have all the ups and downs that he’s had, he’s shown great perseverance.”
Keith Stone turning a corner:Ever since freshman Keith Stone was 
diagnosed with an ear infection in January, White said the forward has been “a shell of himself.”
Stone had scored two points over the 
course of Florida’s last 12 games, not playing in two of them. He was out of rhythm. His conﬁ  dence was shaken.
That changed Wednesday.When the Gators needed him the most, 
Stone hit a clutch three-pointer late in the sec-ond half and ﬁ  nished with eight points and three rebounds in nine minutes.
“My goodness. Keith was huge,” White 
said. “If Keith was kind of in his funk there that he was in for a little bit … I don’t know that we win the game.”And with the absence of starting center 
John Egbunu, who tore his ACL on Feb. 14 and is out for the season, Keith’s play as a 
forward/center hybrid will hold more weight 
than usual as UF heads into the postseason.
“He’s kinda had some struggles lately, 
been sick. I think he’s getting back to his nor-mal self,” Barry said. “If we want to make a deep run in this (SEC) Tournament, we deﬁ  -nitely need him to keep stepping up.”
Noteworthy:With its win against Arkansas, Florida 
clinched the No. 2 seed and a double-bye in the SEC Tournament, which begins March 8 in Nashville. UF will play its ﬁ  rst game of the tournament on March 10.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org 
HOOPS,  from pg. 13Hill is averaging 9.6 points and 4.8 assists per game
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
UF point guard Kasey Hill (left) passes to Justin Leon (right) in Florida's win over Arkansas on Wednesday in the O'Connell Center.  
On just the ﬁ  fth pitch of the 
game, Lorenz hammered a hom-
er to left ﬁ  eld, putting Florida up 
early.
The Gators then mustered six 
runs in the second inning after 
Ocasio converted an RBI single 
with the bases loaded. With 
the bases still loaded, Lorenz 
and Kvistad both drew walks to 
increase the lead. Two errors by 
the 49ers brought in the ﬁ  nal runs of the inning.
Florida scored another six runs 
in the third inning, beginning 
with an RBI single to second base 
by Justine McLean to bring home pinch runner Switzer.
The Gators then loaded the bas-
es and converted easily. Reynoso, DeWitt and Roberts each had RBI singles, and Hoover powered an RBI double.
Four more runs were added in 
the fourth inning.
Each Florida player in the start-
ing lineup recorded a hit during the demolition, and the Gators totaled 
15 hits on the night.
And Barnhill took control on the 
mound, striking out nine in ﬁ  ve in-nings. 
Today, the Gators will compete 
in top-25 matchups against No. 23 
Cal and No. 7 UCLA, starting with the Golden Bears at 5:30 p.m.
@camundson_ 
camundson@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 13Barnhill 
struck out 
nine hitters16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2017
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
As the Gators stepped onto the 
court, the players could feel their op-
ponent’s hostility toward them. 
Facing Georgia in the semiﬁ  nals 
of the National Indoor Champion-
ship, the rivalry was felt by every 
player. And when conference play starts today at LSU, that’s a feeling Florida will have to get used to. 
“When you play on the road in 
the SEC, you go to a lot of places that don’t like you,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “And (at) the end of the day, you ﬁ  nd yourself in a great battle.”
With nine SEC teams in the top 
25, Thornqvist said the conference 
is talented, well-coached and tough 
this year. 
While the second leg of the sea-
son will be mentally challenging, Thornqvist believes that his team is up to the challenge. The Gators have already played highly ranked com-petition this season and have experi-
ence ﬁ  ghting back. 
After losing the doubles point 
— something that’s only happened 
twice this season — against Oklaho-ma State on Feb. 18, the Gators were able to ﬁ  ght back to win the match 4-2. Thornqvist anticipates that this is something Florida will need to be able to do heading into conference 
play. 
The players feel ready, however. 
They plan to build off the momentum 
of their February slate, which included a National Indoor Title and wins over Stanford and North Carolina. 
“(Last) weekend (was) the start 
of what’s ahead,” senior Belinda 
Woolcock said. “If I have to be bru-
tally honest, if I was another team looking at our team, I’d be pretty in-timidated.”The Gators are conﬁ  dent in their 
depth and talent. Brooke Austin cites their ability to score on every court 
as a major asset this season.
Florida won the SEC last year, go-
ing undefeated in conference play. 
And with the exception of one play-er, the Gators have nearly the exact same lineup as last season.  
UF will face LSU today at 5 p.m. 
and No. 20 Texas A&M on Sunday at noon. Thornqvist expects this to 
be the start of tough competition, as 
the Gators are the team to beat this season. 
“Most of the time when we roll 
into town, it’s the match of the year,” he said. “The other team has nothing to lose. So they’re going to give us everything they have. And it’s important for us to be ready.”
spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org  Woolcock: ‘If I was another team... I’d be pretty intimidated’
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
When the Gators play Texas A&M to-
day, they’ll take the court with newfound 
confidence in one specific area: doubles. 
Florida is coming off of a match where 
it won the doubles point over one of the 
top teams in the nation, No. 1 Ohio State.
“I liked the three teams that I saw this 
past weekend, and we are going to go with those three teams again this weekend,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said. “I thought that 
we put ourselves in good positions out 
there with our formations, and we played 
to our strengths on each of those doubles 
matches.”A tandem of underclassmen leads 
the doubles brigade: sophomore Alfredo 
Perez and freshman Jo-
hannes Ingildsen. This 
partnership is currently 
ranked as the ninth-best doubles team in the 
country and has only lost 
once in 2017.
Following the young 
guns are two teams made 
up of upperclassmen.
The second team for the Gators fea-
tures senior captain Elliott Orkin, who lost early season partner McClain Kessler 
to injury, and senior Maxx Lipman. The 
final partnership consists of juniors Chase Perez-Blanco and Josh Wardell, who won 
their doubles match easily over the Buck-
eyes by a score of 6-2.
Getting the doubles partnerships right 
will be massive help to the Gators, who 
need to have chemistry and be familiar with their SEC opponents come the con-
ference tournament. It will also help them 
focus on singles play.
Singles has been a strength for Florida. 
However, against the Buckeyes, a weak-
ness was exploited in Florida’s physical-
ity.
“We’ve got to be more physically tough 
throughout,” Shelton said. “So we are go-ing to push our guys, change the workouts 
a little bit to increase the intensity and re-ally get them to feel their hearts pumping. 
We’ve got to get physically stronger as we 
go through the season.”
In their matchup with Ohio State, the 
Gators looked as if they were fading late 
in the match. The high quality Buckeye tennis caused lots of stress on players’ 
legs, causing looks of fatigue and visits 
from the trainers.
“We have to be able to go the distance 
if we have to,” Shelton said. “If a team 
pushes us to that place we’ve got to con-
tinue to get stronger as those matches go along. It’s only going to get warmer.”
 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org Gators up workout intensity to ‘feel their hearts pumping’WOMEN’S TENNIS
MEN’S TENNISAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coach Roland Thornqvist looks on during UF’s match on Feb. 18
Perez
