We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 22 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators host Texas A&M on Saturday
Florida coach Jim McElwain is looking to avoid 
back-to-back SEC losses. Read the story, pg. 13.GFR hosts spooktactular ﬁ  re safety event
The event was called Screaming for Safety, pg. 4.
Teen steals electronics, jewelry from two women
He tied them up with thier oxygen tubes, pg. 9.
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Sophie Feinberg 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Falisha Kurji worries what she’ll 
do if she gets her period on campus.
Kurji, a UF sustainability studies 
sophomore, said being stuck without menstrual products is a big concern on campus. 
“Whenever I or a friend forgets to pack pads or tampons, we risk the embarrassment of being stuck in a restroom with ruined clothes and the 
realization that we got our period 
unexpectedly, but we don’t have any 
means to move on with our day,” 
the 19-year-old said. 
That’s one reason why she signed 
the petition a new campus and com-munity group, Gators Matter, Pe-riod., posted on Change.org on Mon-day night. 
The petition, called, “Bring Free 
Menstrual Products to UF,” has more than 3,200 signatures as of press 
time. It garnered 1,500 signatures in 
less than a day. 
The coalition’s goal is to promote 
public health and accessibility on campus by providing access to free menstruation products, said Chase Werther, a UF philosophy and po-litical science junior. The Gainesville 
chapter of National Women’s Libera-
tion, Planned Parenthood Genera-
tion Action, Pride Student Union and 
the Women’s Student Association make up the club.
Werther is a member of both the 
National Women’s Liberation and the Planned Parenthood group. She said the coalition works to ensure accessible products for students who 
need menstrual products, regardless 
of their gender identity.
Kurji said having to purchase 
menstruation products creates ﬁ  nan-cial inequality. 
“When you have periods, it’s Group rallies for free menstrual products on UF campus
SEE PETITION,  PAGE 4
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After more than three years of 
planning, UF will kick off its $3 bil-
lion fundraising mission with a night of celebration. 
The kickoff, which is Friday in 
the O’Connell Center at 7:30 p.m., will feature presentations and perfor-mances focusing on UF’s strengths and examples of its work, said Joe Mandernach, the senior associate vice president and chief develop-ment ofﬁ  cer of the University Alum-ni Association. 
Mandernach said the campaign 
kickoff is to honor UF’s achieve-ments and thank donors. 
“It’s a celebration of the Universi-
ty of Florida,” he said. “A campaign isn’t a campaign for a campaign’s sake, a campaign is to help the uni-versity achieve what it’s set out to do.”
Mandernach said UF hopes to 
raise the $3 billion by 2022, and has currently raised $1.35 billion since July 2014.
“The fact we recently became top 10 obviously doesn’t stop anything,” Mandernach said. “If anything it gives us more momentum to push 
forward.”
He said UF celebrities will make 
guest appearances, but didn’t say 
who the celebrities will be. He said all students are invited to the event.
“Students are the key to this, be-
cause one of the things we want to do is really generate a lot of excite-ment and enthusiasm as if to capture UF’s momentum,” he said. “Nobody does that better than students.”
Courtney Spillman, a 21-year-old 
UF chemistry junior, will perform with the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band on Friday at the event.
Spillman said she’s excited for the 
fundraiser kickoff and hopes the pro-ceeds raised will go to a good cause.
“It’s going to be a great effort from 
the university to hopefully improve things around campus,” she said. “I’m hoping some of the funding will go toward old buildings like the Mu-sic Building and Norman Hall.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF fundraiser pushes 
for $3 billion goal
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Porthos, a boxer, looks lovingly at the camera as he sits by the sidelines during 4-Legged Friends 
Week at Swamp Sports on Thursday. Dogs were the theme for the third week of Swamp Sports Kickball. Read the story on pg. 8.
MEMBERS OF UF’S FEE COMMITTEE 
WANT TO FIND ANOTHER WAY 
TO GET RESOURCES.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After the Counseling & Wellness Center’s 
proposal for a fee increase was voted against, director Ernesto Escoto remains hopeful.
On Oct. 4, the center asked student fees to 
increase by 71.4 cents per credit hour, which 
would bring the CWC’s budget from $5.9 mil-
lion to $6.4 million the next year, according to Alligator archives. The money would provide a permanent funding source for the 12 counsel-ors the CWC will hire over the next four years. Although the proposal was denied Monday, the hiring process will still continue, Escoto said.“It was a bit of a surprise, but also under-
standing these are complex matters and the health fee committee is attending to multiple 
requests from various ofﬁ  ces,” he said.
At the local fee committee meeting Monday, 
the four students on the council voted against 
raising fees. The committee is made up of As-sistant Vice President Kim Pace, Student Gov-ernment External Affairs agency head Haley Smith, Student Body president’s Chief of Staff Nick Meno, Action SG chair Jackie Phillips, Associate Vice President Jeanna Mastrodicasa, Associate Director of UF’s Student Financial Af-
fairs Ron Anderson, Vice President of Human 
Resources Jodi Gentry and Student Body Vice President Mario Agosto, according to Alligator archives. 
The CWC was one of four groups that asked 
for more funding.UF Counseling & Wellness Center’s fee proposal denied
SEE FEE, PAGE 4Its petition has more than 3,200 signaturesSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 22
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-19 financial 
aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at 
fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-19 FAFSA 
is now available. UF’s “on-time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-19 FAFSA from the fed-
eral processor is Dec. 15. Apply 
well before Dec. 15 to ensure the 
federal processor has time to ana-
lyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or assistance with completing 
your FAFSA, visitfafsa.ed.gov or 
contact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Pop-Up Culture
Pop-Up Culture is part of UF’s celebration of National Arts and Humanities Month. The event will be held on the Plaza of the Americas on Friday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. An array of activities will take place to celebrate the 
arts and humanities at UF. From 
musical performances to poetry readings and dancing to opportu-nities to paint, there’s something for everyone. To learn more, visit arts.ufl.edu/ahmonth. These var-ious moments of culture are all aimed to increase awareness, ap-preciation and excitement for the 
arts and humanities at UF. The 
event will be free and open to the public. 
Freaky Friday at The Wooly
A dinner and show will be held at The Wooly, located at 20 N. 
Main St., on Friday from 6 p.m. 
to 10:30 p.m. The show features the performance group Guts and Glory GNV. The dinner and show is $45 per person. The ticket in-cludes a complimentary drink and dinner, and all attendees must be at least 21 years old. The 
show starts at 7:30 p.m. For more 
information, visit woolydinner-party.bpt.me.
Tango classes
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned 
dancer, everyone is welcome. 
No experience, partner or special shoes are required. A thick pair of socks will be sufficient. Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., followed by advanced-level lessons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Find  the UF Argentine Tango Club on Facebook for more details.
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program pride eventsUF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program is hosting a fundraiser 
called, “A Pride Extravaganza,” at First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., on Sunday from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. in celebration of Gainesville Pride. The fundraiser will include a resource fair, photo exhibition and live performances. 
The history program is also host-
ing a panel called “Queer in the Capital: DC Pride 2017 Fieldwork Trip Roundtable,” for students to hold a multimedia presentation of their trip to Washington, D.C., for the Equality March for Unity and Pride. The panel will be Oct. 25 from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the sec-
ond floor atrium of Ustler Hall on 
the UF campus.
Authors@UF: Victoria Pagán
Victoria Pagán is a professor in the Department of Classics. Her talk on Tuesday at 1 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100, is titled, “Tacitus and his Eternal 
Works.” The Roman author, 
Tacitus, is most famously known for his depictions of the historical events of the first century CE, but his influence is still discernible in the works of modern writers, painters and musicians. Pagán provides a valuable look at his lasting impressions on artists in 
her new book.
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21
The David and Wanda Brown 
Center for Leadership and Service is holding a Fall 2017 Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join several hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service for a wide 
variety of nonprofits, including 
Keep Alachua County Beautiful, Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more infor-mation, call 352-392-1215, email cls@leadershipandservice.ufl.
edu or visit bit.ly/daysofservice.
Sunday Series: Fall Harvest 
Dinner with Farm Kitchen 
CollectiveJoin Forage & Working Food, lo-cated at 219 NW 10th Ave., on Oct. 22 from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. for a fresh, farm-to-table meal 
featuring Gainesville local farms. 
A discount will be available for Working Food members. RSVP by Tuesday. For more informa-tion, visit workingfood.org.What I did this summer: Seedy 
AdventuresMeet Melissa DeSa, a self-de-scribed local seed-aholic and bio-diversity addict. Learn why seeds are important for the future and get a taste of the travels and con-
nections that have been made 
over the last few years. The work-shop will be held Oct. 23 from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Forage & Working Food, located at 219 NW 10th Ave. The workshop is free to the public but donations are accepted. For more informa-tion, visit workingfood.org.
UF Fulbright Information Session
UF Fulbright Program is hosting “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” on Oct. 26 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. Presentations will be quick and concise. The event will be an opportunity to 
network with U.S. and interna-
tional Fulbright participants. Light refreshments will be served. To register, please visit eventbrite.com and search by event title. The presentations are "Determination, Recklessness and Luck: The Feasibility of Improbable Paths" by Sergio Marconi; "Nerve 
Tissue Engineering" by Syed-
Mustafa Jamal; and "How Do Photojournalists Make Such Great Pictures?" by Mindy McAdams. For more information, email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plications
Gainesville’s largest independent 
craft show is looking for artists and crafters who make unique, giftable goods for the upcoming Dec. 3 holiday shopping event at First Magnitude Brewing Company. Apply online by Nov. 1 at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  89° LOW  71°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When Patreis Young found out Student 
Government wanted her input on a campus 
issue, she was surprised.
“My ﬁ  rst thought was ‘Finally, Student 
Government is asking for my opinion,’” the 
UF microbiology and cell science sophomore 
said.
SG sent out an email survey Wednesday af-
ternoon asking students about their overnight study habits to determine future 24/7 spaces. The survey will close Oct. 27.
Student Body President Smith Meyers said 
he and SG Student Senate leadership decided to send out the survey after approving the SG 
budget June 30, when they cut Library West 
hours from 24/7 to 24/5 to fund Newell Hall’s 24/7 operation costs.
He said negative backlash from students after their decision reafﬁ  rmed the survey idea.
Young took the survey as soon as she saw 
it because she said she wants to make Library West 24/7 again.
“I love West,” the 19-year-old said. “They 
should’ve asked for our opinion before they changed the hours.”
It took a little more than three months 
for SG to coordinate the creation of the ﬁ  ve-minute survey with different campus groups, Meyers said.
Smith said SG hopes the survey will show 
how much students need both spaces. He said 
SG will use the data to request funding from 
UF.
“I would love to see a lot of students come 
together to show the university they should pay for overnight hours, if that’s what they want,” Smith said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgSG survey asks students 
about 24/7 study space
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Wednes-
day afternoon after he burned his and his 
roommate’s belongings at his Spyglass apart-
ment, Gainesville Police said.
The 22-year-old man, whose name will 
remain conﬁ  dential due to a possible mental illness, became upset and began destroying 
his roommates’ furniture in their apartment, 
located at 701 SW 62nd Blvd., according to an arrest report.
The man then put his laptop, passport, 
cellphone and his roommate’s laptop into the oven and turned it on to burn the items. He took more items in a garbage can into the parking lot and set them on ﬁ  re as well, ac-cording to the report.
A witness at the apartment complex said 
she saw the man light the garbage can on ﬁ  re and roll around on the ground, according to the report.
The man walked to the apartment’s front 
ofﬁ  ce but did not notify anyone of the ﬁ  re, ac-
cording to the report. When police found him 
at the front ofﬁ  ce, the man admitted to start-ing the ﬁ  re to “destroy the demons,” wrote 
GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an 
email.
In addition to the man’s two roommates, 
there were eight other people in the building. The apartment sustained smoke damage, and 
the oven was damaged, according to the re-
port.
The man was arrested on charges of ar-
son and criminal mischief. He was taken to 
the Alachua County Jail where Baker Act pa-
perwork was delivered based on his apparent mental status, Tobias said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgGPD: Man intentionally 
starts ﬁ  re in his apartment  By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Jeff Goldstein remembers 20-year-old Tom 
Petty  — before the stardom.
The late American rock legend and 
Gainesville native was just “Tom” from the 
ﬁ  ve-man group Mudcrutch in the early ’70s, 
Goldstein said. Petty’s young country-rock 
quintet played bars and house shows before they met Goldstein from The Rose Community Center, a student-run music booking group.
That’s when Petty started rising to local 
fame, playing for thousands of fans on the Pla-za of the Americas and in the University Audi-torium between 1970 and 1974, Goldstein said.
Now, Goldstein, a UF alumnus and retired 
computer engineer, wants to build a music his-tory museum downtown to display the history of talent that emerged from Gainesville in the last 60 years.
“Some of the best music ever produced in 
the history of the planet came from Gainesville, Florida,” Goldstein, 65, said. “We want to doc-ument it, archive it and present it for poster-ity.”
Goldstein said he got the idea for the mu-
seum about three years ago and thinks it’s needed even more after Petty’s death Oct. 2. 
The museum will include data and song 
selections from local artists, he said. It will 
also display music from other genres, such as 
Rhythm-and-Blues artist Charles Bradley and Ellas “Bo Diddley” McDaniel, the late singer for which Bo Diddley Community Plaza is named.
Goldstein said he hopes to start fundraising 
for the project early next year.
Shelby Rubin said she grew up on Tom 
Petty’s music.
As a little girl, she remembers her mom, 
Diane, playing “Stop Draggin’ My Heart Around,” performed by Petty and singer Stevie Nicks, in the car or at family hangouts in West Palm Beach.
Rubin, a 20-year-old UF telecommunication 
junior, said she’d love to see a museum dedi-cated to Gainesville music. From old legends to current local artists playing at High Dive and Heartwood Soundstage, she said Gainesville music deserves to be documented.
“I’m amazed at how many legends have 
come through here, the amount of people that have come through here that are so extremely talented,” she said. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org UF alumnus plans Gainesville music history museum4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017harder to pay for your education when you have to spend 
so much money on necessary sanitation products,” she 
said.
To find funding for their proposal, Gators Matter, 
Period. is lobbying Student Government and UF admin-istration. They hope to allocate money from the health 
and service fee students pay, Werther said.
Werther said other campuses across the country, like 
Brown University and Florida State University, provide free menstruation products to students. and other uni-versities have began pushing for free menstrual prod-
ucts in the past two years. She said because UF is a top-
10 public university it should be leading by example. 
“We don’t want to be the last ones,” the 20-year-old 
said.
Even if the group doesn’t accomplish its goal, she 
said she hopes the petition will start a dialogue and 
show SG officials and UF administrators that the issue 
matters to students. 
Werther said it’s vital that UF shows students it cares 
about their basic human needs.
“I think it’s a really important message to send,” she 
said.PETITION,  from pg. 1They are lobbying 
UF and SGSHE WILL SPEAK AT SHE’S 
THE FIRST’S ‘DAY OF THE 
GIRL ’ SUMMIT.
By Kaylee Kaestle 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The owner of Orlando’s Pulse 
nightclub, Barbara Poma, will 
speak at UF next week for Interna-tional Day of the Girl.Poma will be the keynote speak-
er at the third annual She’s the 
First’s Day of the Girl summit, tak-
ing place at the UF College of Pub-
lic Health and Health Professions on Oct. 22 at 11 a.m. The event is inspired by the U.N. International 
Day of the Girl Child, which raises 
awareness about global gender in-
equality. 
Poma will discuss her work 
starting the OnePulse Foundation after the Pulse nightclub shooting in June 2016. The event will not be 
about the shooting, said Valentina 
Lopez, the UF She’s the First chap-
ter president.
“Her appearance ties back to 
our goals of female empowerment 
and education, which she has al-
ways been an advocate for,” Lopez 
said.
Lopez, a 21-year-old UF mar-
keting senior, said the event cel-ebrates women and inspires people to take action.
Poma is scheduled to speak at 
1:15 p.m. Presale tickets are $7 and $9 at the door for students with a Gator 1 Card. Community mem-bers can buy presale tickets for $14 
or pay $18 at the door. 
All of the money raised from 
the event will be used to spon-
sor scholarships for girls. Like the U.N., Lopez wants to remind ev-eryone attending the event about the ultimate goal. 
“It’s about the Day of the Girl,” 
she said. 
Kyra St. George, a 19-year-old 
UF chemical engineering sopho-more, just joined She’s the First 
and is looking forward to hearing 
Poma. 
“I just think she’ll have insight-
ful things to say for all of us to 
hear,” she said.Pulse owner and OnePulse founder to speak at UFABOUT 200 PARENTS AND 
CHILDREN ATTENDED.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Dressed as Batman, BB-8 droids and Disney 
princesses, Halloween came early for dozens of trick-or-treaters. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue hosted its 11th annu-
al Screaming for Safety event from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. at the Safety City campus next to its head-
quarters, located at 1025 NE 13th St., for about 
200 residents Thursday. Safety City, co-owned by GFR and the Kiwanis Club of Gainesville, has a miniature intersection with a traffic light 
and crosswalks to teach pedestrian safety to 
kindergartners.
Costumed children roamed the streets with 
buckets full of candy and lined up to take turns 
sitting in a GFR fire truck. Families posed for 
pictures at the purple blow-up castle doorway 
outlining the campus’ front entrance. 
Partnered with 13 other community groups, 
including law enforcement and local nonprof-
its, GFR held the event to honor fire prevention 
week, said Krista Ott, a GFR fire and life safety 
educator. 
“It’s a week where pretty much every fire 
department in the United States really tries to focus on a hard push for fire safety and pre-
vention information,” Ott said. “Screaming for Safety provides us an opportunity to get out safety information as well as have the kids have a safe place to trick or treat.” 
Each community group had a station at the 
event where volunteers gave away candy and offered parents Halloween-night safety tips.
Ashley and Corey Smith pushed 5-month-
old Caleb in a bright orange stroller while walk-ing behind their three other children — Josh, 9, Joseph, 7, both dressed in full-fledged Captain America suits, and Aubrey, 3, who donned a white princess dress. 
Ashley Smith said this is the third year she’s 
brought her family to the event. 
“We get good information here, especially 
day care stuff this year,” Ashley Smith, 28, said referring to Early Learning Coalition of Alachua County’s station. 
At the Gainesville Police station, Officers 
Ernest Graham and Nicole Lardner sat in lawn chairs around a patrol car, handing out candy, baggies and police badges to superheroes and witches walking by. 
Lardner said they ran out of their first supply 
of candy within 30 minutes. 
“It’s really an insane amount of candy, but 
the kids are having fun,” she said. “That’s all that counts.”
 GFR hosts 11th annual trick-or-treat, safety event for kids
David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
Three-year-old Chloe Momanis, dressed as Tinker Bell, giggles as Gainesville Police Officer Ernest Graham readies a trick-or-treat package of candy, a slap bracelet and a free baggie to give her on Thursday evening at Gainesville Fire Rescue’s 11th annual Screaming for Safety event near its headquarters, located at 1025 NE 13th St. 
“I think at this point in time college af-
fordability is of the utmost importance to 
our students,” said Smith, one of the stu-dent committee members. 
During the meeting, she pointed out 
the difficulty of the decision.
“Either we’re the students who in-
crease tuition and nobody likes that, or we’re the students who don’t help with resources,” she said. 
Escoto said the CWC will speak to the 
committee and UF’s provost next year. He doubts they will receive state funding from Gov. Rick Scott’s administration.
“We’ll continue to provide the same 
quality service we’ve been providing,” he said. “We’re focused in on hiring these 12 positions, the first four of the 12, and we know that will begin to make a dent in our ability to meet increased demand for ser-vices.”
Smith said she sees a need for more re-
sources and wants to help provide money 
— but not by affecting students’ finances.
“It’s not that we don’t want to do 
something about it, but we think there are 
other ways to do it,” she said.Smith said she wants to meet with UF’s 
chief financial officer, Michael McKee, to reduce the overhead payment on the CWC so it can keep more funding. It’s the third option she’s hoping for after the previous two — voting to raise fees and sending a legislative budget request — failed.
The overhead is a 13 percent charge 
against the expenditures of auxiliary or-ganizations, which bring in revenue, said UF spokesperson Janine Sikes. The only 
exception is SG, which pays a 10 percent 
overhead. The overhead money is spread to groups that don’t bring in a revenue, such as UF public safety.
Smith said adjusting the overhead 
could raise about $500,000 without in-creasing student fees. Escoto agreed that this option could help the center get more resources.
“Not all of our fees are going toward 
what we are paying for them to go to-ward,” Smith said.
During the meeting, UF Vice President 
for Human Resources Jodi Gentry asked the students to reconsider their position to deny a raise.
“These are not flighty things,” Gentry 
said. “These are really serious things that get, in many respects, to the absolute core of students’ experience at the University of Florida and maybe for their whole life.”
Smith said the CWC provides essential 
services that students need. She said she wants to resolve the fee issue before she graduates, but if it’s not, she said other students in SG will keep working for it.
“If we’re not providing these services 
to students, we are not meeting every goal to helping students graduate in four 
years,” she said.
Niccole Smith, a UF psychology sopho-
more, said she tried to use the CWC last 
Spring, but by February she couldn’t get an appointment with an individual thera-pist. 
“I feel like the CWC gets booked really 
quickly,” the 19-year-old said. “I just want to see a change where it’s, like, more ac -
cessible throughout the semester.”
Though she doesn’t want her tuition 
to increase, she said mental health is a worthy cause.
“As long as there’s some sort of money 
going into the CWC, then I think that’ll be an improvement overall,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
FEE,  from pg. 1The center will still hire 12 new counselorsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORIt’s Friday the 13th — the spookiest day of the year. You decide 
to take advantage of the eerie end of the week and break out your 
old Ouija board with some of your friends.
After rummaging through the closet where you store all of your 
childhood games, you ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nd the long-lost Ouija board that 
once served as a major source of entertainment at slumber par-
ties and get-togethers. Everyone puts on a brave face, but inside, you’re all a little scared.
“Should we really bother the spirits?” says one of your less 
courageous friends. “Oh please, ghosts aren’t real!” says another, as if to assert their dominance and bravery.
You all decide to go through with it. After lighting some can-
dles and getting things started, you ﬁ  nd there is a spirit among you. When you ask the spirit how they died, the cursor moves 
across the board to spell out:
In a world that feels like it’s spinning out of control, we’ve 
been trying to ﬁ  nd a few glimmers of hope among the chaos and 
devastation we’ve recently been exposed to. This past week, UF 
proved to offer us a vote of conﬁ  dence and comfort that we have 
all been in desperate need of.
As we are sure you are all already aware, white supremacist 
Richard Spencer from the National Policy Institute has ofﬁ  cially 
signed a contract to speak at UF on Thursday, effectively earning him our ﬁ  rst dart of the week. What gives us hope, however, is 
the way our president and the rest of UF has handled the news.
UF President Kent Fuchs and other campus leaders have sent 
out multiple emails and video messages, explaining their personal positions on Spencer and UF. The dean of the UF College of Jour-nalism and Communications, Diane McFarlin, put it best, we be-lieve, we she said, “The First Amendment gives him every right to speak. But we have every right not to listen.”
Although UF can’t legally keep Spencer away, faculty and staff 
have been working tirelessly to educate students on the situation and increase security measures around campus on the day of the event so every student feels safe and comfortable. They’ve been ensuring that every student knows they are valued and respected, 
no matter the preachings of this hateful man. The valiant and ami-
able efforts made by UF faculty and staff have proven to be the laurel we’ve all been hoping for.
Unfortunately, while things might not be going too well at UF, 
they are going worse on a national scale. According to NBC news, President Donald Trump began attacking Puerto Rico once again Thursday morning. Over Twitter, of course, Trump claimed the island’s power grid and infrastructure were a disaster before the two hurricanes hit last month. He further threatened to pull fed-
eral emergency management workers from the island, leaving the 
American citizens to fend for themselves. 
The apathetic way Trump has been handling the situation in 
Puerto Rico is rightfully our last dart of the week. Twenty-one 
days after Hurricane Maria ravaged the island, 84 percent of peo-ple are still without power. How could Trump consider hanging 
these people out to dry? Through every effort made so far, Trump 
has acted nothing short of irked and bothered that he has had to do anything for the island at all. We can only hope his threats to pull emergency responders are just that — threats.
Per usual, we’d like to leave you all on a positive note with one 
last laurel. Last Monday, 55 cities decided to forgo celebration of 
Columbus Day. Instead, they chose to celebrate a day referred to as Indigenous Peoples Day. The day recognizes Native Ameri-
cans, who were the true ﬁ  rst inhabitants of what later became 
the U.S. 
Advocates of Indigenous Peoples Day explain that Columbus 
Day does not celebrate the discovery of America, but simply hon-
ors the mass genocide and colonization of the people indigenous to the land.
We believe the celebration of Indigenous Peoples Day is some-
thing America should be proud of, and the 55 cities who chose to celebrate it are taking a step in the right direction.A summary can never compare to a real book
For almost 20 years, SparkNotes has been providing students with easily under-stood summaries and analyses of works commonly found in high school and col-lege classrooms. Before that, CliffsNotes 
was offering student study guides since 1958, serving as a lifesaver for students struggling to wade through and extract some sort of mean-ing out of their assigned Shakespeare readings. When you’re in 11th grade and you’re having an exam on “The Catcher in the Rye” in your next class, these guides can be invaluable tools in gar-nering enough knowledge to throw together a slipshod analysis of Holden’s hunting cap, but are they anything 
more than this?
Millions of students have likely passed tests (and even 
courses) because of these guides, but should you suggest 
they are equivalent to reading the actual texts to a litera-ture professor, you’ll likely be laughed at. To suggest that reading the SparkNotes for “The Grapes of Wrath” is of equal utility as trudging through the novel’s actual about 400 pages is an insult to John Steinbeck. It suggests the entire scope and overarching signiﬁ  cance of an author’s 
work can be boiled down to a series of brief paragraphs, 
capable of being skimmed in ﬁ  ve minutes or less in a doctor’s waiting room or a bus ride home.
No, it does not work like that. You cannot shave off 
10 hours of reading time and still expect to receive the same beneﬁ  ts as actually reading the book. There is a reason a classic work like “Of Human Bondage” is about 650 pages; if W. Somerset Maugham had a couple big ideas capable of being conveyed in two pages, why did 
he waste his time writing the other 648?
Blinkist is a growing mobile app that claims to let 
you read entire books in just 15 minutes or less, under 
the idea of providing “big ideas in small packages.” For  $4.99 a month, you can receive the “big ideas” from more than 2,000 nonﬁ  ction books.
“Of Human Bondage” is not an easy or fun book to 
read, yet it is still, by far, the book that has had the big-gest impact on my life. It wasn’t read on a Sun-day afternoon before a Monday reading quiz, but instead took an entire summer to consume. Could I have gotten the main ideas and deeper meanings or signiﬁ  cance in a couple of minutes 
online instead? Yes, I deﬁ  nitely could have, but 
Maugham’s ideas would have had no effect on me and would have likely been forgotten later that week.
The impact that Maugham’s work had on 
me was closely tied to the actual reading itself. 
Reading such a novel is not a sprint, but a marathon — an often arduous journey through a dense and some-times abstruse work. Somewhere, however, over those 
650 pages, the protagonist’s, Philip Carey, story slowly 
becomes your own. His struggles become your struggles, his victories yours as well, and before long, when the trials of life come hurling toward Philip, you share, and essentially mimic, his own reactions. How? Because over the last several hours of reading, you have invested your own time in exchange for temporarily living another life.
Reading such novels can be frustrating, tedious and 
even physically exhausting, but the side effects are noth-
ing less than costs paid in exchange for experiencing the 
same epiphanies, revelations and triumphs as the charac-ters you have loyally and enduringly followed.
Blinkist only offers summaries of nonﬁ  ction books, 
which often contain main ideas more easily extractable than complex ﬁ  ction. Despite this, I still believe such a service detracts from the works themselves, in the same way that SparkNotes or CliffsNotes does. Cutting out 95 percent of a book and releasing a hyperconcentrated 
“big idea” is only a hedonic shortcut to the end goal of 
reading itself. It slices out the actual experience, leaving only crumbs of “big ideas” needing to be assembled, and drains the fun out of reading a book, ultimately defeating its own purpose in the process.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.Column
Darts & Laurels
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
Letter to the EditorFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
In light of a white supremacist 
rally at UF, the undersigned members of the UF Department of Wildlife Ecology and Con-servation, and the UF School of 
Forest Resources and Conservation emphatically state that we person-ally abhor the rally participants’ messages of hate, extremism and white supremacy. We believe ideas of racism, sexism, homophobia, xe-nophobia and indeed any denigra-tion of a person as the other and not deserving of equality and respect has no place in our society. We believe our strength as an academic commu-nity and city is in our diversity and 
acceptance of people from different 
cultures and backgrounds.
It is not enough to not be racist — 
we must be anti-racist. This means not being racist is not enough. As members of an educational institu-tion that values diversity, we are compelled to speak out.
We fully afﬁ  rm UF’s non-dis-
crimination policy that says, “The University is committed to non-discrimination with respect to race, 
creed, color, religion, age, disability, 
sex, sexual orientation, gender iden-tity and expression, marital status, national origin, political opinions or afﬁ  liations, genetic information and veteran status as protected under the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act.” Our strength as an academic community and city is in our diversity and acceptance of peo-ple from different cultures, societies and backgrounds.
Through this letter, we — as in-
dividuals — express our full support of organizations and people who en-gage in peaceful efforts to help com-bat bigotry, racism and intolerance. We reject everything white suprem-acy stands for and instead stand in resolute solidarity with students, staff, faculty and citizens most af-fected by hateful ideology which has no place in our society.
Eighty individuals from the UF 
Department of Wildlife Ecology 
and Conservation and the UF School of Forest Resources and Conservation signed this letter. To see the full list of signatures, visit iﬂ  a.news/2hEb9Wh.
An open letter from some members of UF IFAS departmentsNo part of America has been 
untouched by President Donald Trump’s already di-sastrous presidency. In less than 10 months, Trump and 
his supporters have resurrected and instrumentalized racism and xeno-phobia, undermining the dignity of America and Americans.
I never feared Trump, because he 
isn't intelligent enough to have his own ideology. His modus operandi is endless drama, meaningless “deals” and an obsession with ratings. 
His followers, plenty of whom are 
still recovering from a black man's authority over them and that a wom-an and a Jew wanted to replace him, have become a grave threat to civility and peace in our country.
The rise of the “alt-right” — really 
just a brutally honest Right — has en-
dangered everyone in the U.S. who 
isn't white. As with any totalitarian ideology, the contradictions and ha-tred within the movement will bring its collapse.
Until then, we are faced with Na-
zis coming into our space and threat-ening everything we stand for. We shouldn't act like it's not painfully 
clear what people like Richard Spen-
cer stand for and their stated aim of a “white ethno-state.” UF will shell out $500,000 to protect this ideology next week. Protecting us would have entailed canceling the event.
One of my colleagues said, “I 
expected more of this place”. Every 
statement from Fuchs says he ﬁ  nds 
the racism and ideology of these peo-ple abhorrent, but draws a line in the sand and says he can't do anything.
The imminent threats against UF 
were enough to cancel the ﬁ  rst event, and this risk has only intensiﬁ  ed in past weeks. Fuchs' cowardice is truly upsetting, and no website or strongly 
worded email will change the fact 
that UF is knowingly endangering our safety.We are supposed to seek com-
fort in the obscene sum of money being spent on security, and we are tempted to forget who will receive that small fortune: the police. The 
same state segment that has stood 
by as the characters being let onto our campus brutalized and murdered people protesting their fascist, geno-cidal ideology. This is poignant in a city where the police are still, one month later, investigating an ofﬁ  cer who made jokes about concentration camps and gas chambers.
UF has proclaimed we've attained 
greatness in an arbitrary numeric ranking. Yet UF’s administration has failed us, as the faculty union de-tailed in a recent letter, neglecting to provide a safe environment for learn-ing and working.
As a Swahili proverb reminds us, 
he who taught the leopard to eat peo-ple was a man. Those who appease and enable the forces of evil within the world, no matter their intentions, are vehicles for evil too.
I expected so much more of this 
place.
Jordan A. MacKenzie is an 
adjunct lecturer in the UF Center for African Studies and a former opin-ions columnist for the Alligator.
A column for UF President Kent Fuchs: Make UF great, for once8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
QUARTER-SIZED QUARTET
UF’s Quarter Sized Tuba Quartet serenades students on their way to class outside of Century 
T ower. On Thursday, members (from right to left) Brandon Hidalgo, a 22-year-old music education senior; Ryan Klitz, a 19-year-old music and business administration sophomore; Bryan Burwell, a 21-year-old music performance senior; and Christa Verbsky, an 18-year-old music and biology freshman, played a selection of UF gameday songs including “We Are the Boys from Old Florida. ”
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Volunteering in the Dominican Re-
public gave Mica Wiley the motivation 
to tear down metaphorical and physi-cal walls in America.
“Once you have that personal con-
nection, why wouldn’t you help?” Wi-ley said. 
Wiley is the arts project director 
for the Future of Freedom and Walls, which began in September and will run to Nov. 14. The festival is screen-ing four free movies, two of which screened on Oct. 4 and Oct. 10, in the Reitz Union Auditorium on Tuesday 
and Oct. 24 at 7:30 p.m. The films will 
show the political issues in Europe, 
she said.
Wiley, a 21-year-old UF interna-
tional studies junior, said she hopes students attending the film festival will learn to step outside their American 
comforts. 
“If you’re not helping then you’re 
ignoring the fact that these people are, like, dying because you’re too lazy or too unwilling to make a difference,” she said. 
The last freedom festival on campus 
was in 2009, Wiley said. She said glob-al issues in 2009, like heightened rac-ism, are similar to what is happening in 2017, which motivated the festival.
Melissa Gutierrez, a UF health sci-
ence sophomore and Cuban immi-
grant, said she has dealt with many 
metaphorical walls in America. 
She said people assume she is Mexi-
can or came to the U.S. on a raft, but if people were more informed, they 
would not make those assumptions.
“It’s just being viewed so different-
ly,” she said, “when I don’t think I am different at all.”Film festival showcases 
modern European issues
STUDENTS LEARNED TO 
CHANGE A BICYCLE TIRE 
IN THE FIRST CLASS.
By Nicholas Aguila
Alligator Contributing Writer
After Wednesday, Kristen Duff-
ield knows how to change a flat tire 
on a bike.Duffield was one of eight women 
who signed up to learn how to re-pair their bikes in a four-week class 
at The Freewheel Project, located 
at 618 S. Main St. The class, which 
is designed for female bike riders, 
first met Wednesday and will meet weekly from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. until Nov. 1.
Students paid a suggested dona-tion of $10 to $25 to reserve one of the eight spots in the class.
Gaby Mendez, a mechanic at 
Bikes and More, taught the students how to change a flat tire during the 
first class.
“Do all the steps,” said Mendez 
to the class. “It’s like working hard-
er instead of smarter because peo-
ple will usually take shortcuts and have to go back and double check 
their work.”
Duffield donated her bike to be 
used by the class for practice. By the end of the class, all of the students 
had changed a bike tire.
“When I first came in I had basi-
cally no confidence when it comes 
to my bike and repairs, but now I 
feel more empowered,” Duffield said.
Ariel Drescher, Duffield’s friend, 
watched Mendez assemble and re-assemble the bike’s wheel and rep-
licated her in five minutes.
“My bike’s been a great mys-
tery to me, as much as I love it, now I feel more safe on trails alone if something happened to it,” Dre-
scher said.All-female bike class teaches empowering essentialsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
READY TO MAKE
THE MOST OFYOUR WORLD?
DO THE
UNEXPECTED.
Connect with a recruiter:peacecorps.gov/recruiters
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
THEY WILL REGISTER VOTERS 
ON CAMPUS.
By Kuvira Sanichara
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new club at UF will provide a political plat-
form for underrepresented voters.
Gators for Underrepresented Voters is a stu-
dent-run organization that began this Fall. 
Anna Baringer, the club’s president and a UF 
statistics and political science sophomore, wrote in 
an email that engaging with underrepresented vot-ers is the key to a functioning democratic system.
“I was especially disheartened to realize that 
among the students that do participate politically, not enough of them came from underrepresented populations,” the 19-year-old said. 
Hannah Daigle, the public relations manager 
of the club, said an underrepresented voter is de-ﬁ  ned as any minority based on race, sex, gender or other.
The club’s ﬁ  rst event will be a voter registration 
push Monday on the Plaza of the Americas.
“Our goal is to increase voter efﬁ  cacy amongst 
college students, especially for groups underrep-resented in politics, starting at UF,” Baringer said. “Too many groups underrepresented in politics 
are unregistered to vote.”
Daigle, a UF psychology and political science 
freshman, said the club is nonpartisan. 
“Now more than ever, people feel like they 
don’t have a voice,” Daigle said. “I see this as be-
ing one of the most important clubs this year.”
Baringer said she hopes the club motivates peo-
ple to get involved in politics. 
“Ultimately, we want to create a culture at UF 
that expects every Gator to be civically engaged,” Baringer said. “Seeing our mission resonate with so many people has been inspiring.”UF club focuses on minority voters
By Courtney Mims
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Ironwood Golf Course closed 
May 1, Ron Irby felt like he had been 
evicted.
“I’ve been playing this course for 
almost 40 years, and it’s home,” Irby said. “It’s my home course.”
Irby, 65, has played on the city golf 
course since 1978, when he moved to Gainesville, but commuted to three other courses during the summer while Ironwood was closed for renovations.
Jeff Cardozo, the golf course manag-
er, said the course has updated fairways and installed new mats on the driving range. The course will also have a struc-ture for shade on the driving range . 
Cardozo said the new driving range will 
be one of the best in Gainesville.
Hurricane Irma pushed back the course’s reopening from Sept. 1 to this past Monday. Cardozo said some lakes 
overﬂ  owed and six trees fell during the 
storm.
“It took about a week to clean every-
thing up,” he said.
Cardozo said workers are still im-
proving drainage on the course.
A day after Ironwood reopened, Irby 
was back at his home. He thought he did well his ﬁ  rst day back.
“I scored pretty well, I only played 
the back nine (holes),” Irby said. “I was three over par on the back.”
Irby went with some of his usual 
friends on Tuesday. He said he looked 
forward to returning to his routine of 
playing on the course three times a week.
“The mix of people, the ethnicity, the 
camaraderie, (Ironwood Golf Course is) just a great place,” he said.City golf course reopens
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
An Ocala teenager was arrested 
Wednesday for tying up two elderly 
women with their oxygen tubes and 
stealing their belongings and car in July, 
Marion County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said. 
Gabriel Bowen, 18, broke into an 
Ocala home early in the morning on July 
22 while the residents, two 72-year-old women, were sleeping, according to a 
press release. 
One of the women said Bowen placed 
something over her head, dragged her by 
her shirt into the bathroom and punched 
her in the face, according to the release. 
The other woman said she woke up to 
Bowen standing over her demanding 
money.
She said Bowen forced her into the 
bathroom as he was holding a knife to her, according to the report. 
The women told police they were tied 
with their hands behind their backs by their oxygen tubes in the bathroom for about 30 to 40 minutes while Bowen 
ransacked their home, according to the 
release. 
Bowen stole TVs, a laptop, jewelry, 
watches, a cellphone, medication and a credit card from the women. He also 
stole their car, according to the release. 
Holly Hill Police found Bowen several 
hours later driving the stolen car and ar-rested him. MCSO detectives found the stolen belongings in the back seat of the 
car, according to the release. 
He was sentenced on charges of auto 
theft and resisting arrest by HHPD and extradited back to Marion County on 
Monday to face additional charges, ac-
cording to the release. 
MCSO is charging Bowen with armed 
home invasion robbery, false impris-onment, aggravated battery and grand 
theft. He remains in the Marion County 
Jail in lieu of a $155,000 bond.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgMCSO: Teenager arrested 
after robbing two womenABOUT 11 DOGS PARTICIPATED 
IN THE EVENT.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Junior didn’t exactly meet the four-legged 
qualiﬁ  cations, but it didn’t stop him from cheer-
ing on his favorite kickball player Thursday night.
While Heather Harris, 24, ran the ﬁ  eld with 
her kickball team, her three-legged chiweenie, Junior, barked from the sidelines.
Although he was an enthusiastic cheerleader, 
Harris wasn’t sure Junior would be a kickball regular.
“I don’t know if there will be a next time, 
maybe if he’s better,” she said.
Junior, along with about 10 other dogs, joined 
their owners for Swamp Sports’ third week of the 
kickball season at the T.B. McPherson Center, 
located at 1717 SW 15th St. Eight teams battled against each other in a series of games that be-gan at 7:15 p.m. The theme, Four-legged Friends week, was meant to encourage players and spec-tators to bring theirs dogs to the game, said Mi-chael Paulter, the owner of Swamp Sports.
“It’s just a good chance for people to not keep 
their pets locked up in the house,” he said.  “Let’s 
celebrate all of our four-legged friends.”
Swamp Sports, formerly known as Mad K 
Sports, is an adult co-ed sports league that be-gan in 2015. It hosts kickball, dodgeball and oc-
casional cornhole tournaments. Partnering with Florida Fun Bikes and Mother’s Pub & Grill, Swamp Sports’ mission is to provide a healthy outlet for adults in Gainesville to meet new peo-ple and stay active.
Paulter plans a new theme for each week of 
the season. Players have dressed up for themes like superheroes and the ’90s and ran around in onesies one week, Paulter said. Afterward, the teams pack up and head to Mother’s Pub & Grill for a post-game beer and burger.
“We’re not making ESPN, nobody’s signing 
contracts,” he said. “It’s a great opportunity to meet new people and be social and not just like 
cut-throat competition.”
Esaa Samarah said the league is a great place 
to meet people, but he’s still getting the hang of 
the sport.
“I realized last time that I didn’t know where 
(the bases) were, and I ran the wrong direction,” the 24-year-old said.
Despite not being an all-star kickball player, 
Samarah said it’s the dogs that keep him coming 
back. Although the theme was dogs this week, 
some of the players always bring their pets, he said.
“If I’m being honest, I mostly come for the 
dogs,” he said. “Then I often get in trouble be-cause I don’t pay attention to the games.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgSports league hosts dog kickball
elderly 
womenMonday
game jjBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Lake Property Foreclosure Resale $29,900Before foreclosure sold for $112,900.Award winning gated community.Being sold off Oct. 21st!Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com1-844-826-9565Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC.Licensed Real Estate Broker    10-13-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
Live & Online Public AuctionThursday, October 19th at 10 AMRS &amp;E Holdings, Inc.d/b/a Distinctive Field Services1883 Marina Mile Blvd, Ste 106,Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315Sale will consist of Commercial Vehicles including Dump Trucks, Commercial Lawn Equipment, Carpet Cleaning Equipment, Hand Tools, Generators, Air Compressors and more!Catalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.comAssignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case #2017-019114- CA-01 (05)Preview: 1 hour prior to sale - 15%-18% BP - $100 refundable cash deposit to register(800) 840-BIDS info@moeckerauctions.comAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     10-13-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com  1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1-8-17-43-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
1990 300 CE Mercedes Benz coupe.
Photos available. Call for price. 386-3772    10-16-5-12
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
MopedsThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring Foreman, Stone Masons & Tenders. Foreman must have 5-8 yrs exp. w/ all phases of masonry, be computer literate, physically capable to do job and have proven track record w/ references. Stone masons must have 5 yrs. exp. & tenders must have 2 yrs. exp. Contact Shelley between 8:00am-5:00pm. @ 352-636-1431  DFWP.   10-13-17-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       10-18-17-6-14
Construction Laborers Needed!!Temp. Agency. Daily PayCall 352-505-0503 www.allfloridapersonnel.com       10-18-17-6-14.
Assistant to job foreman needed for masonry company. Duties incl.paperwork, operate mobile scaffold & general clean up. Bi-lingual a plus. DFWP. Call Shelley at 352-636-1431.    10-13-17-4-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.
Family business in Alachua.
Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      
10-27-17-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.    10-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
COMEDY CLUB Not Needed! Go To:   https://shortstoriesforthetwisted.com/ Enjoy!                                            10-20-4-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      10-13-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
1.  Separated
1.  Rattled 5.  ____, beta, gamma
2.  Nominate6.  ____ stew
3.  Joy7.  Verse
4.  Bronchial disorder SCDEAP
KESHNAPHAAL
SRIHI
NPOATPI
OLETIANZTSAAN
MASATHANSWERS: 1A-Spaced  5A-Alpha  6A-Irish  7A-Stanza
1D-Shaken  2D-Appoint  3D-Elation  4D-Asthma  B-Pink Panther10-13-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The first “____ ____” movie 
debuted in 1963. BONUS
ACROSS
1 Yanks’ foes
5 Operation
designed to hurt
10 Shipboard
resident
14 CFO, e.g.15 Not as likely to
mess up
16 Walk without
gettinganywhere?
17 TW ...20 Shoelace site21 Shipboard chums22 Tenn. neighbor24 Apartment listing
abbr.
25 DCYC ...34 Nice with?
35 Gobs and gobs
36 Cart for heavy
loads
37 Filly’s brother38 Fighter eulogized
by Bill Clinton,among others
39 Old-time teacher40 “The Grapes of
Wrath” figure
41 Beams43 Prime real
estate?
44 CI ...47 Downed a sub,
say
48 In-law’s wife,
possibly
49 Refrigerates53 One of a biblical
ten
58 AGT ...62 Like quality beef63 One “sitting
lonely on theplacid bust,” in aclassic poem
64 Course with
relevant tangents
65 Regular guys66 Finals, e.g.67 Spot
DOWN
1 “Star Wars”
warrior
2 Nerve cell part3 Cravings4 Ewan McGregor,
for one5 They’re often free
6 Sched. question
mark
7 Kind8 Once called
9 Sir Georg Solti’s
record 31
10 Rotating rod
11 Conduct12 Hurting13 Puts money (on)18 Dash19 Not at all
reflective
23 On the lam24 Backs up a
videotape
25 Cobb salad
ingredient
26 Bring to mind27 Composer
Mendelssohn
28 Good-sized
wedding band
29 Prefix for “sun”30 Madison Ave.
pitchers
31 Carpentry, e.g.32 Worries33 Church numbers
41 Reacted to an
arduous workout42 Shoes without
laces
45 Gymnast’s
powder
46 Ibiza, por
ejemplo
49 Key of the finale
of Brahms’
Symphony No. 1
50 “Les Misérables”
author
51 “Now it’s clear”52 Old Fords54 Hard-working
colonizers
55 Spice Girl
Halliwell
56 Second, e.g.57 Sharp side
59 Reach capacity,
with “out”
60 Actress 
Mendes
61 President pro __
By Morton J. Mendelson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/13/1710/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Part of BYOB
and MYOB
4 Band name with
a lightning bolt
slash
8 Unlike a couch
potato
14 T’ai __
15 Afrikaans
speaker
16 9Lives mascot17 *What may put a
fire in the belly?
19 Makes room on,
as a schedule
20 Window part
21 Mother of Pollux
23 She plays
Crawford in FX’s
“Feud”
24 *Commuter
entertainment
source
27 Regards with
surprise
30 Sped31 Botch32 Miracle-__33 One teaspoon,
e.g.
37 Sponsor’s array
38 *Slick trick
42 Pampering place43 Lets hit them45 Pi follower
46 Heroism
48 In-land link?
50 Leopardlike cats
52 *Pre-release
programs
56 Not right
57 Commuter’s
expense
58 Staff symbol
62 Metaphorical
state of agitation
64 What young
people may sow... and what’s
literally hidden in
the answers to
starred clues
66 Like most
Chaplin films
67 “Uh-huh”68 By way of
69 Gives a heads-up70 Drag racing gp.71 Prompt a
correction
DOWN
1 “Draft Dodger
Rag” folk singer2 Stop on the trail
3 Quibbles4 “Defending
Liberty, PursuingJustice” org.
5 Might’ve
6 Con man’s forte
7 Set of beliefs8 “The Walking
Dead” channel
9 Nab
10 Pressure-__11 Like two-time
Oscar-winningdirector AsgharFarhadi
12 Late summer
sign
13 Steel city near
Cologne
18 Bit22 Orbit City pooch25 Starting26 One in a cel
block
27 FBI guy
28 Assistant
29 “Wanna hear a
secret?”
32 ’60s-’70s Pontiac
34 City that hosts an
annualNorwegian Woodmusic festival35 Blind __
36 Elephant
flappers
39 Singer Guthrie40 Golf club part
41 Even once
44 Cutting-edge
horror film?
47 Olds compact49 Approval50 Wide-eyed and
wise-looking
51 Telemarketer52 Light wood53 It’s often
distributed in cc’s
54 Sir or sri55 Haul to the shop59 Nesting site60 Ado
61 Nicholas II was
the last one
63 Some NFL
blockers
65 Raiders’ org.?
By J. Michael McHugh©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/1710/12/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 12, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 21 Entertainment 19 Connections
Designated drivers are the greatest25 Lost & Found
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017Soccer coach Becky Burleigh 
and the Gators suffered their first home loss of the season to Florida State on Thursday. Read the story, pg. 16. What happened last time UF faced Texas A&M?
The Gators went to College Station, T exas, under coach Will Muschamp and 
left with a 20-17 win. UF trailed in the fourth quarter until a Mike Gillislee touchdown run put the Gators on top. Florida's defense held future Heisman trophy winner QB Johnny Manziel to 173 yards passing and 60 rushing. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Staff Report
It has been a trying week for the Flor-
ida Gators football program. The team 
lost by one-point to LSU, lost multiple players with injuries and lost the respect of some fans by ditching the orange and 
blue uniforms this weekend. The Gators 
will take the field Saturday against Texas A&M wearing green jerseys that the Or-egon Ducks passed on. The jerseys took 18 months to design since the artist ac-cidentally opened Internet Explorer and had to wait for it to close. He then used the remaining 10 minutes to put black polka dots on a greenish-gray back-
ground. The team first got the idea for 
the jerseys when Nike approached them and told them that no one was buying Gators merchandise. A year and a half later, here we are. The Florida-Texas A&M game is sure to be one of the most interesting picks this week. But before we get into all of our picks and meet our competitors, Alligator sports editors Matt 
Brannon and Dylan Dixon will break 
down the much-anticipated matchup be-tween Delta State and West Florida. Be sure to catch Statesmen and the Argo-nauts on Saturday on BLAB TV.
 Delta State wins because …I’ll be honest, the odds are against the 
Statesmen for this one. They have to go 
on the road to a hostile Argonauts envi-
ronment for the game Saturday, which will be a real challenge because no one knows what an Argonaut is or where it lives. I can only assume based on the name that Argonauts are people who really love the movie Argo. And since Argo won best picture in 2012, UWF has a pretty good shot of capitalizing that 
momentum and beating Delta State.
Except for the fact that in science, 
deltas symbolize change. Because of 
this, I expect things to change on Satur-day and for the Statesmen to walk out of Blue Wahoos Stadium with a win.
- Matt Brannon
West Florida wins because ...
I’ve been verbalizing this since the 
commencement of the 2017 college foot-
ball campaign: Don’t get somnolent on the Argonauts. They are a highly adroit group of football players.
If I was necessitated to select a vic-PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN2 / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 14 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF plays T exas A&M at 7 p.m. Saturday in The Swamp. Gators coach Jim McElwain was impressed with the Aggies last weekend, when 
they lost by only eight points to No. 1 Alabama. "They’ve got speed. They’ve got a bunch of talent and played really well, " McElwain said.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Florida emerged from the tunnel at Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium last Saturday favored 
against the visiting LSU Tigers. It didn’t 
matter. Despite oddsmakers favoring the 
Gators by 3.5 points, Florida lost by one, leaving LSU players dancing on the field. It was coach Jim McElwain’s second-ever loss 
in The Swamp in 15 tries. 
Florida is favored in Saturday’s game 
against Texas A&M by three points. Despite 
coming off a loss, the fact that it’s a home game for the Gators probably helped their 
odds, as did the fact that the Aggies lost last 
week as well. But looking at the stats, it’s clear who has the real advantage when the Aggies (4-2, 2-1 SEC) and Gators (3-2, 3-1 
SEC) kick off Saturday night in Gainesville 
at 7. 
Starting with the obvious ones — offense 
and defense — TAMU leads in points per game (fourth in SEC) and yards per game 
(fifth in SEC). The Gators rank 12th and 11th 
in the conference in those categories. UF is better on defense, ranking seventh to Texas A&M’s 10th, but the offensive discrepancy is larger. The Aggies average 10 more points 
than the Gators usually give up. 
“They’re really good,” McElwain said. “I 
mean, they’re really good. They’ve been re-
cruiting at a high level for a long time.”
One of the big former recruits making an 
impact for the Aggies on offense is junior Christian Kirk, who leads his team in receiv-ing yards (316) and touchdowns (five). He came in as a five-star player. Then there’s 
quarterback Kellen Mond, a true freshman 
four-star player who has thrown for over 1,000 yards in six games to go with seven touchdown tosses and three picks. 
That combination, along with the rest 
of the Aggie offense, managed to put up 19 points last week in a loss to the No. 1 Ala-bama Crimson Tide. That might not seem impressive, but Alabama’s defense ranks 
fifth in yards and fourth in scoring nation-
ally. Those 19 points were the second-most scored on the Crimson Tide this season. 
“I saw a team in A&M that was very 
hungry and well prepared and their athletes played,” McElwain said after studying that game. “You could see the quality of guys that they’ve been recruiting and the energy 
they’ve played with… They’ve got speed. 
They’ve got a bunch of talent and played really well.”
Florida, meanwhile, did not play really 
well and especially not with speed against LSU. The tempo was a consistent question for McElwain and players all week, and they both emphasized that they’re working on it. 
“That’s gonna be the point of emphasis,” 
wideout Josh Hammond said. “You know, just getting lined up and moving fast. It helps our defense a lot, too, because A&M’s definitely that up-tempo offense.”
That TAMU tempo shows up in first 
down statistics, where the Aggies again hold an advantage over Florida. They pro-duce 22 first down per game (second in the SEC) to Florida’s 16 (11th). 
Then there’s sacks. Texas A&M leads the 
conference with 23. They’re hoping to con-tinue creating pressure on Florida’s redshirt freshman quarterback Feleipe Franks and Gators facing must-win game vs. Texas A&M
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
Writer     Brannon            Dixon                        Bauer                 Cohen
Delta State @ West Florida (pick)    DSU                           UWF                             DSU                DSU
T exas A&M @ Florida (-3)     UF                               UF                 A&M                    A&M
Auburn @ LSU (+7)                      Auburn              Auburn                  Auburn                      Auburn
South Carolina @ T ennessee (-3)    UT                                UT                  USC                   UT
Georgia T ech @ Miami (-6)      GT                        Miami                           Miami                          Miami
T exas T ech @ West Virginia (-3.5)    T ech                                WVU                            WVU                           WVU
Utah @ USC (-12.5)     USC                       Utah                              Utah                            Utah   
Missouri @ Georgia (-30.5)    UGA    Mizzou             Mizzou                 Mizzou                      UGA
Record     22-25              21-26                 24-23  23-24
 
Writer     Hall             De la Torre               Thompson               Goldkamp
Delta State @ West Florida (pick)    UWF                          DSU                               UWF                            DSU
T exas A&M @ Florida (-3)     UF                               A&M                  A&M                    A&M
Auburn @ LSU (+7)                      Auburn              Auburn                  Auburn                      Auburn
South Carolina @ T ennessee (-3)    USC                                    USC                  USC                    USC
Georgia T ech @ Miami (-6)        Miami                          GT                                  GT                               Miami   
T exas T ech @ West Virginia (-3.5)    WVU                                WVU                              WVU                           WVU
Utah @ USC (-12.5)                      Utah                                    USC                                USC                      Utah   
Missouri @ Georgia (-30.5)                      Mizzou                              Mizzou                  Mizzou                    Mizzou
Record     25-22                25-22                  25-22   28-19
tor in a contest between UWF and the Alabama 
Crimson Tide, I’m nominating the men from Pen-sacola 11 occasions out of 10.
They are that deft. You should surmise the 
same.
I’m not required to reveal scrupulously re-
searched statistics elucidating how stupefying their offense is. I won’t go on a soliloquy pontifi-cating about how astounding their defense is. I don’t even want to embark in a discussion about their special teams, which I could bloviate about for junctures of a minimum of six hours in one sitting.
At the end of the day, just take my word for it. 
They knows how to do the football really, really goodly.
- Dylan Dixon
Now, onto our competitors!
In first place with a 28-19 record is 247Sports 
writer Thomas “injured reserve” Goldkamp, 
who got a taste of cosmic karma this week. After prodding coach Jim McElwain about Gator inju-
ries all season, Goldkamp is now sidelined with 
strep throat and is doubtful for the Texas A&M game after spending the whole week sucking on cough drops.
Tied for second with a 25-22 record is Or-
lando Sentinel writer Edgar “white Christmas” 
Thompson, who was thankful he didn’t grow up in an era with camera phones after a video circu-lated showing the Dolphins offensive line coach 
with what appeared to be cocaine. The twist? Ed-
gar was the one holding the camera.
Tied for second is the Gainesville Sun’s Gra-
ham “this will look great on Twitter” Hall. While waiting to interview players after practice this week, Graham found a cleat from the new alternate uniforms and conducted a five-minute photoshoot for the lone shoe, so he could post it on social media. He thought about trying the cleat 
on and running a few routes. But then he remem-
bered that would require exercising.
Also tied for second is Gator Country’s Nick 
“Spider 2Y Banana” de la Torre, who induced McElwain’s shortest press conference answer this season after asking: Have you thought about 
simplifying the offense to speed things up? “It’s 
pretty simple,” McElwain replied, before taunting Nick for running bad plays in Madden.
Next up with a 24-23 record is Alligator writer 
Ethan “I piss off people with my love of the color purple" Bauer, who was called out by 
his personal branding professor on Thursday for 
wearing a purple shirt. Ethan sniped back that the color of his shirt was technically "orchid," and that he was making a fashion statement. But let's face it Ethan, the only fashion statement you've ever made was the time you wore assless chaps to a Jonas Brothers concert. Lighten up a bit.
One game behind Ethan is Alligator writer Ian 
“I have the transcribing skills of a sack of 
potatoes” Cohen, who absolutely butchered an 
attempt to transcribe an interview with Florida offensive lineman Fred Johnson on Wednesday. Ian misquoted Johnson so horrifically, we at the Alligator have decided to fire him. We haven't told him yet though, so Ian, if you're seeing this, there you have it. Don't come into work on Sun-day.
Then, at 22-25, we have Alligator sports editor 
Matt “Octopus man” Brannon, who acciden-tally smeared ink all over his shorts last weekend while handing out copies of the Alligator during the Homecoming parade. Matt claims ink from the newspapers got all over his hands because he was sweating, but we’re not convinced. He’s defi-nitely an octopus, and that ink was definitely a secretion of bodily fluid because he got nervous. Learn how to cope with your anxiety better Matt. 
People are starting to notice your arms and legs 
are just four pairs of tentacles stapled together.
Last on our list at 21-26 is Alligator assistant 
sports editor Dylan “I'm the coolest person alive” Dixon, who didn't feel like writing a burn for himself this week, so instead decided to talk about how awesome he is. Dylan could beat LeB-ron James in a game of one-on-one, hit a home run off Clayton Kershaw and intercept a pass 
from Aaron Rodgers. He's just that dope.Speeding up tempo is a point of emphasis
against a Florida offensive line allowing 
three sacks per game. 
Florida is trying to address the sack 
problem by stressing communication. 
“The sacks feel like they were given 
up on poor assignments, guys coming free, things like that,” guard Fred John-son said. “So coach Davis really took us and said we need to work on the funda-
mentals.”
Finally, there’s penalties, where 
TAMU ranks second in the SEC while the 
Gators are near the bottom at 11th. But 
combining all those numbers mean noth-
ing to Florida’s player and coaches, who know this game determines the team’s ability to stay in control of the SEC East. A loss essentially eliminates it from con-tention. 
“Everything is still out in front of us,” 
McElwain said. “How we approach that and how our guys choose to attack that is really going to be interesting.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgPICKS,  from pg 13
Alan  Alvarez / Alligator Staff
After UF's offense was slowed to a crawl against the Tigers, receiver Josh Hammond said Florida is trying to pick up the pace. 
“Just getting lined up and moving fast. It helps our defense a lot, too, because A&M’s definitely that up-tempo offense, " he said.
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
5733 SW 75 ST, Gainesville, FL 32607   •   www.sdcchocolates.com   •   (352)378-5005
Mon 11-4:30  •  Tue-Fri 11-7  •  Sat 11-3
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
Game Day at Blackadder 
Local Craft Beer
Tailgating Growler Fills
Open Early for Home Games
618-A NW 60th ST
(Newberry Rd by McAlister’s)
www.blackadderbrewing.com
352.339.0324By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Last season in the Gale Lemerand Athletic 
Center, Alex Holston cocked back her left arm 
and ﬁ  red a kill into the middle of the Ole Miss defense. Her kill set the tone in the third set for Florida and boosted its offense for the rest of 
the match.
The Gators took care of business against 
the Rebels in the two games they faced each 
other last year, winning both appearances and dropping only one set. However, the team is ready for a challenge from its SEC counterpart in 2017.
“Ole Miss played us really well last year at 
their place,” middle blocker Rachael Kramer said. “They always play amazing, so it’s a real-ly good team to play in this part of the season.”
Tonight at 7:30, the No. 1 Gators (13-0, 5-0 
SEC) will play the Rebels (12-7, 3-3 SEC) in Oxford, Mississippi. UF remains the lone un-defeated team in the nation and will look to maintain perfection this weekend. 
According to Rebels coach Steven McRob-
erts, a visit from the top-ranked team in the country invites a tough matchup.
“It’s not a typical team we see,” McRoberts 
said in a release. “Even though we haven’t beat them, we have played pretty well against them in the past couple of years. Hopefully, with our returners, we can build off that a little bit.”
Those returners McRoberts is talking about 
include quality players both in the frontcourt and the back line. Senior Lexi Thompson leads the team in kills on the season (238), while se-nior Kate Gibson leads the conference in aces against SEC opponents (10). 
Before practice on Wednesday, UF setter 
Allie Monserez said she and her teammates would scout Ole Miss all week in preparation.
“We’re expecting a really good team and 
we really want to focus on the controllables,” she said. “Just starting from the beginning and establishing our hitters and establishing a good connection.”
Coach Mary Wise expects Ole Miss and its 
veterans to bring lots of offense to the table.
“(Ole Miss) presents a unique challenge for 
us, and obviously playing on the road has its 
challenges,” Wise said. “They will test our de-fense in a very big way.”
Following its match against the Rebels, 
Florida will charter back to Gainesville to pre-
pare for No. 8 Kentucky on Sunday.
Even though a top-10 team in the Wildcats 
is coming to town this weekend, UF has main-tained it will stay focused on the Rebels until 
the ﬁ  nal point has been scored.
“Ole Miss may not have the ranking,” Wise 
said. “But anyone who knows women’s vol-
leyball and how the separation is so minimal between these teams with all the great points scorers out there, know it’s a great challenge for us.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org
Gators expect a ‘challenge’ tonight against Mississippi
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
With a quick turnaround coming 
off the ITA All-American Champion-ship in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the Florida men’s tennis team returns to action 
this weekend at the USTA/ITA Re-
gional Championship in Atlanta.
The tournament, hosted by Geor-
gia Tech, includes competition from 15 Florida and Georgia schools. The tournament will begin on Friday with qualifying singles rounds and continue through Tuesday.
It’s a special tournament for 
coach Bryan Shelton, who has fond memories of his time with the Yel-low Jackets.
Shelton was the head coach of 
the women’s tennis team at Georgia Tech for 13 seasons, leading them to a national title in 2007. As a player, Shelton was named an All-American 
and received four All-ACC selections.
“That’s a special place to me,” 
he said. “I not only went to school 
there, but I coached there for many years, so that’ll be a great experience to go back and play on those courts.”
The Gators have been success-
ful in the regional tournament in the past, taking four doubles champion-
ships and a singles title since 2009.
Shelton discussed how presti-
gious this tournament is and what it means to win in singles and/or dou-
bles, receiving an automatic bid to the Oracle ITA National Fall Champi-onships in Indian Wells, California.
“There’s a carrot out there for 
our guys, especially for the ones that 
haven’t qualiﬁ  ed yet,” Shelton said.
Four Gators have already quali-
ﬁ  ed for the tournament because of 
their performance in Tulsa. Fresh-man Duarte Vale and junior McClain Kessler have qualiﬁ  ed for doubles, while junior Alfredo Perez and soph-omore Johannes Ingildsen have a bid for both singles and doubles. 
Shelton said he expects the team 
to go out and compete at a high level this weekend with hopes of improv-ing as the tournament goes on.
“I believe that in tennis when you 
practice and train you can improve arithmetically, but in competition and in tournaments you can im-prove exponentially,” Shelton said. 
“So we’ll look for that exponential 
growth this weekend.”
Ingildsen said the team’s focus on 
serving technique and serve-return in practice has paid dividends. 
“We’ve been working a lot on 
serve and return,” Ingildsen said. “Almost every day we’ve been out there serving and I think it showed 
off in the matches we’ve played.”
Ingildsen said he’s conﬁ  dent in 
UF’s ability to win this weekend  and punch more tickets to the fall cham-
pionships in November.
“There’s deﬁ  nitely a chance to 
win the tournament in Atlanta,” the Denmark native said. “I expect the other guys to do well there and hope-
fully get a tournament win there so 
they can go to California with us.”
Sophomore Stephen Madonia 
will open the competition for the Gators on Friday at 11 a.m. in the second round of singles play against Colter DeCoste of Stetson University after receiving a ﬁ  rst-round bye.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
UF heads to Atlanta for USTA/ITA Regional ChampionshipVOLLEYBALL
MEN’S TENNISBy Mark Stine
Sports Writer
With a Florida State forward on 
her back, redshirt senior defender 
Kristen Cardano made a calm back pass to goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese in the match’s opening minute. 
Marckese took a touch and then did 
the one thing a goalkeeper cannot do when a teammate passes her the ball: pick it up.
The handball led to an indirect 
free kick inside the Gators’ box and a goal by FSU’s star forward Deyna Castellanos, a goal UF was never able to respond to.
“Unfortunately, it was a bit of a 
communication issue,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “And you can’t give Castellanos a free kick at the 18. She’s just deadly with those.”
No. 10 Florida fell to No. 16 Flori-
da State at home on Thursday night, 2-0.
And for a team that started hot 
in the first half of its two previous matches, UF began play without its usual sharpness.
Even in their pregame warm up, 
the Gators seemed unusually tense, focusing painstakingly on their tech-nique rather than, well, warming up.
This tension showed up in 
Marckese’s decision to pick up the 
ball in the first minute and through-
out the first half, which saw Florida put one shot on target and committ 10 fouls.
A chance came on a seventh-
minute corner kick, when freshman 
Deanne Rose fielded the ball all 
alone inside the FSU 6-yard box. And on a chance she normally makes in her sleep, Rose shot at the lone Semi-nole blocking the front post.
Even captain Gabby Seiler wasn’t 
immune to making a critical mis-take. When a pass filtered to Seiler at Florida State’s back post in the 22nd minute, she skied a routine tap over the crossbar.
“I thought we played with a lot 
of urgency and intensity,” Burleigh said. “Unlucky to not at least get one back, and we probably should’ve had two in the first half. So some-times there are opportunities and we finish them and sometimes it doesn’t happen.”
In the 24th minute the Seminoles 
punished Florida by doubling their lead. FSU midfielder Gloriana Vil-lalobos found forward Dallas Dorosy in space behind the Florida defense and registered her second assist of the match.
From that point on, Florida State 
saw out the match despite continu-ally ceding the ball to the Gators, with its defensive approach visibly 
frustrating even the most experi-
enced Gators with its physicality and aggressiveness.
On two separate occasions in the 
second half, Seiler and junior mid-fielder Briana Solis committed un-necessary, physical fouls out of pure frustration.
Injuries also made it difficult for 
UF to come back.
Play stopped for Cardano on mul-
tiple occasions in the second half, as she suffered an apparent leg injury and left the game in the 85th minute. The referee’s whistle also blew for junior Mayra Pelayo, who banged heads with an FSU player but fin-ished the match.
“It’s just part of a soccer game,” 
said Pelayo. “It was a physical match. We just had to play through it.”
Despite the early deficit and los-
ing Cardano, Burleigh believes that her players left the field gaining posi-tive experience. 
“I think for us to face a 2-0 defi-
cit at halftime was a great learning experience for us because it required us to make some changes,” she said. “And I think our team responded re-ally well and got after it.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
Alligator File Photo
Gators defender Kristen Cardano (above) passed the ball back to goalie Kaylan Marckese, but 
Marckese broke the rules by picking up the ball. The Seminoles scored on the resulting free kick.
SOCCER: FSU 2, UF 0
Handball proves costly as Florida loses at home to FSUALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com
12 PC SUPER TAILGATE
GO GATORS!GO GATORS!
$5 off  with 
this adLooking 
for a non 
invasive 
holistic option for:
•increased blood flow
• sleep management
• stress reduction & 
relaxation
• mental acuity
• physical fitness and 
endurance
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705  
Complementary 20 minute session
from UF MBA
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
THIS WEEKEND IN UF SPORTS
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
FRIDA Y 
VOLLEYBALL @ OLE MISS, 7:30 P .M., SEC NETWORK +
MEN’S TENNIS @ USTA / ITA REGIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP IN ATLANTA, ALL DAY
SATURDA Y
MEN’S TENNIS @ USTA / ITA REGIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP IN ATLANTA, ALL DAY
FOOTBALL VS TEXAS A&M, 7 P .M., ESPN2
SUNDA Y
MEN’S TENNIS @ USTA / ITA REGIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP IN ATLANTA, ALL DAY
VOLLEYBALL VS KENTUCKY 1 P .M., SEC NETWORK, SOCCER @ AUBURN 3 P .M., SEC NETWORK+INSIDE
Defensive ends Jordan Sherit and Jachai Polite are two reason’s why 
Florida’s defensive front has been a bright spot this season.
ONLINE
For updates from Saturday’s football game, follow us on Twitter 
@alligatorSports and visit alligator.org/sports. 
AT FULL  STRENGTH
 AT FULL
AT FULL
 STRENGTH
STRENGTH
Editor: Matt Brannon  Photos for Cover Illustration: Alan Alvarez
Sherit has missed 19 games over 
the course of his career with the 
Gators because of a myriad of 
injuriesSherit has 14 tackles in 
conference play this season, 
one of the highest totals on the 
teamSherit has two sacks this 
season, tied for the third most 
among Gators players along 
with Jachai Politeby the
Jordan Sherit
2
14
 19“W e’ve got some young 
guys that need leadership and need somebody to show them the way. He’s done a great job with that. I’m happy for him.”
- Gators co-defensive 
coordinator and defensive line 
coach Chris Rumph
“Sherit has been going. That has been good. It’s 
been good for our team because he brings a lot of leadership to it as well.”
- Gators head coach Jim McElwain“He’s a vocal guy. He’s a leader. He jokes a lot but, when it’s time to get serious, he’s a good leader.
- Gators linebacker Kylan Johnson
Rumph
Reese
Moon
Quotable
McElwain
Johnson
Polite is second on the team in 
quarterback hurries with ﬁ  ve, 
trailing only Jordan SheritPolite has ﬁ  ve tackles for 
loss through ﬁ  ve games this 
season, second most of all 
Gators playersThe Gators have forced one 
fumble this season, when 
Polite strip-sacked Vanderbilt 
quarterback Kyle Shurmurby the
Jachai Polite
1
5
5“Jachai turned into a beast from last 
year. I’d say he probably done lost 
like, I’d say 20 pounds of probably 
just fat and stuf. Like he just got 
down and lean, so Jachai like way 
faster than I’ve ever seen him.”
- Gators linebacker Vosean Joseph“He’s amazing. His 
improvement from last year to 
this year has been phenomenal. 
He’s a speed guy now”
- Gators linebacker Jeremiah 
Moon“(Polite) was always a great guy, we 
just had so many heads, so he didn’t get 
as many reps. This year he’s showing 
what he can do. He played tight end in 
high school and has the athleticism that 
everybody is seeing.”
- Gators linebacker David Reese
Joseph
“He’s a monster, young kid but he’s a hell of a player .... He’s more mature than a lot of the young guys, he plays like an older 
player.”
- Gators offensive line-
man Tyler Jordan
Jordan
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Jachai Polite saw it coming.
In the ﬁ  rst quarter, he watched LSU re-
ceiver Russell Gage take a sweep play 30 
yards to the end zone. So the next time he 
saw the Tigers receiver in motion, Polite 
pounced. As Gage took the handoff and 
made a bead for the right side, he 
met Polite, Florida’s 6-foot-2, 
260-pound sophomore 
defensive end. In 
the span of 
a few 
sec-
onds, Polite 
picked him up, put him 
down 2 yards behind the line 
of scrimmage and performed 
his new celebration: “mask off,” 
gesturing like he’s lifting a cover 
off his face to reveal himself to the 
world.
Thanks to a breakout season, 
Polite’s gotten plenty of opportu-
nities to try out that celebration. 
But the story of the edge rusher 
from Daytona Beach, Florida, 
isn’t about arrogance, bragging 
or style points. It’s about how the hardest working player can earn that right to celebrate. 
Polite initially came to UF 
as an underrated three-star 
recruit. He played fairly of-
ten as a freshman but didn’t 
stand out. So going into his 
second season, he raised 
his own expectations. He 
started reaching out more 
to defensive line coach Chris Rumph. Over sum-mer, Polite sent texts, tweets and pictures to Rumph about how good he would be in the fall. So when fall practice started, Rumph challenged him, sending the same messages 
back to Polite to make sure he hadn’t forgot-
ten the standard he’d set for himself.
And he didn’t forget. Through ﬁ  ve games, 
he’s reminded fans, coaches and teammates why he’s at UF in the ﬁ  rst place.
No play showcases Polite’s ability like 
the now-famous tackle he made on Tennes-see running back John Kelly, a clip of which has tallied thousands of retweets on Twitter. 
Kelly caught a screen pass on the opposite 
side of the ﬁ  eld, eluding multiple Florida defenders for a 29-yard gain. It would’ve been more, too, but Polite tracked Kelly the whole time, chasing him down and getting 
in front of him before delivering a textbook tackle. Not bad for a 260-pound defensive 
lineman.
“He has a great motor. You saw it on the 
play,” UF safety Nick Washington said. “He was the ﬁ  rst guy at the quarterback and still came around and made the tackle, a great form tackle.”
It was such a perfect example of a don’t-
give-up-on-the-play attitude that Gators coach Jim McElwain had the whole team watch the clip later in a meeting.
McElwain wasn’t the only coach im-
pressed with the play. Scott Wilson, Polite’s high school coach, was one of the 87,763 in attendance that Saturday. It’s plays like those that convinced Wilson that Polite has a shot to play in the NFL. And that’s coming 
from someone who coached Ricardo Allen, 
who started in Super Bowl LI for the Fal-cons, and Pro Bowler Leonard Williams.
At Mainland High School, Wilson real-
ized Polite’s preparation, attitude and foot-ball IQ will take him however far he wants to go.
“I have not seen something that he wants 
that he hasn’t earned,” Wilson said.
When Polite ﬁ  rst joined the team in high 
school, he was so large and so skilled that the coaching staff couldn’t decide where to play him. He played defensive line, safety, 
cornerback, tight end, took snaps at quar-
terback and even starred on special teams.“He was our punter and led the entire 
area in punting average,” Wilson said. “It’s amazing what he can do.”
After the team’s offense improved, Polite 
found his comfort zone along the defensive line.  
“He had a passion for going after the 
quarterback,” Wilson said. “Once we saw how much damage he created on that side, 
we couldn’t take him (off).”
Polite had such an impact on the school 
that his stardom within the community 
never died down. To this day, Polite uses 
that inﬂ  uence to set an example for kids in 
Daytona Beach, reaching out to students and giving talks to players whenever he can. It’s a part of who he is. If you look on his social media accounts, weaved between in-
game highlights you’ll see posts like this one 
Thursday from a youth football coach:
“Reach out to Jordan, What ever you said 
to him worked. He’s working his butt off 
and leading! Keep motivating him for me! I 
appreciate you!”
Some of Polite’s biggest fans are his team-
mates at UF. And like the kids back home, they look up to him because they’ve wit-
nessed his work ethic and will to get better.
“After that video (went) viral, I was like, 
‘Bruh, I gotta practice like you,’” defensive 
tackle Luke Ancrum said, “because it’s re-
ally the way he practices. That’s why he’s 
like that.”
Polite continues to burst into backﬁ  elds 
and separate himself this season. He’s the only Gator to force a fumble so far and he’s 
second on the team in quarterback hurries, 
behind only veteran defensive end Jordan Sherit. Polite is a bright spot on what’s been a down year for the Gators, but even in dark 
moments, his presence uplifts others. Af-
ter UF’s 33-17 loss to Michigan, Sherit was asked if there are any positives to take away from the game. 
“I love the way Jachai Polite played,” 
Sherit said. “He’s a second-year guy who didn’t get a lot of shine. But I expect a lot of big things out of him.” 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org Expect big things: Jachai Polite’s hard work is inally paying of
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Jachai Polite saw it coming.
In the ﬁ  rst quarter, he watched LSU re-
ceiver Russell Gage take a sweep play 30 
yards to the end zone. So the next time he 
saw the Tigers receiver in motion, Polite 
pounced. As Gage took the handoff and 
made a bead for the right side, he 
met Polite, Florida’s 6-foot-2, 
260-pound sophomore 
defensive end. In 
the span of 
a few 
sec-
onds, Polite 
picked him up, put him 
down 2 yards behind the line 
of scrimmage and performed 
his new celebration: “mask off,” 
gesturing like he’s lifting a cover 
off his face to reveal himself to the 
world.
Thanks to a breakout season, 
Polite’s gotten plenty of opportu-
nities to try out that celebration. 
But the story of the edge rusher 
from Daytona Beach, Florida, 
isn’t about arrogance, bragging 
or style points. It’s about how 
the hardest working player can 
earn that right to celebrate. 
Polite initially came to UF 
as an underrated three-star 
recruit. He played fairly of-
ten as a freshman but didn’t 
stand out. So going into his 
second season, he raised 
his own expectations. He 
started reaching out more 
to defensive line coach 
Chris Rumph. Over sum-
mer, Polite sent texts, tweets and pictures to 
Rumph about how good he would be in the 
fall. So when fall practice started, Rumph 
challenged him, sending the same messages 
back to Polite to make sure he hadn’t forgot-
ten the standard he’d set for himself.
he’s reminded fans, coaches and teammates 
why he’s at UF in the ﬁ  rst place.
the now-famous tackle he made on Tennes-
see running back John Kelly, a clip of which 
has tallied thousands of retweets on Twitter. 
Kelly caught a screen pass on the opposite 
side of the ﬁ  eld, eluding multiple Florida 
defenders for a 29-yard gain. It would’ve 
been more, too, but Polite tracked Kelly the 
whole time, chasing him down and getting 
in front of him before delivering a textbook 
tackle. Not bad for a 260-pound defensive 
lineman.
play,” UF safety Nick Washington said. “He 
was the ﬁ  rst guy at the quarterback and still 
came around and made the tackle, a great 
form tackle.”
give-up-on-the-play attitude that Gators 
coach Jim McElwain had the whole team 
watch the clip later in a meeting.
pressed with the play. Scott Wilson, Polite’s 
high school coach, was one of the 87,763 
in attendance that Saturday. It’s plays like 
those that convinced Wilson that Polite has 
a shot to play in the NFL. And that’s coming 
from someone who coached Ricardo Allen, 
who started in Super Bowl LI for the Fal-
cons, and Pro Bowler Leonard Williams.
ized Polite’s preparation, attitude and foot-
ball IQ will take him however far he wants 
to go.
that he hasn’t earned,” Wilson said.
school, he was so large and so skilled that 
the coaching staff couldn’t decide where to 
play him. He played defensive line, safety, 
cornerback, tight end, took snaps at quar-
terback and even starred on special teams.
saw the Tigers receiver in motion, Polite 
pounced. As Gage took the handoff and 
made a bead for the right side, he 
met Polite, Florida’s 6-foot-2, 
260-pound sophomore 
defensive end. In 
the span of 
a few 
whole time, chasing him down and getting 
in front of him before delivering a textbook 
 By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
As Jordan Sherit lay sprawled out on the 
ground of Doak Campbell Stadium, staring 
into the sky with tears in his eyes while Flor-
ida’s training staff attended to his knee, he couldn’t help but question his future as a col-lege football player.
Just moments prior, Sherit was attempting 
to bat down a pass from Florida State quarter-back Deondre Francois when teammate Caleb Brantley rolled into his right leg.
The blow ended his redshirt junior season 
right then and there, with Sherit needing as-sistance from two UF staff members to help him hobble through the end zone and into the locker room.
The 6-foot-4 defensive lineman had been 
through this situation more than once before.
He tore his ACL halfway through his senior 
year of high school, forcing him to miss ex-tended time when he arrived in Gainesville.
Then, in his first full season with the Gators 
in 2014, another injury held him off the field in three of Florida’s final four games.
With his history of health issues growing 
larger by the year, Sherit wondered whether a return to UF this fall was the right decision.
But when the team’s spring practices began 
on Feb. 28 and he was forced to watch from 
the sideline, Sherit realized one final season 
in college was an opportunity he couldn’t pass up.
“Spring was a turning point,” he said. “I 
wasn’t able to practice and it was kind of that deciding factor of, ‘Do I want to come back? Do I want to put myself through this again?’ Without question I wanted to come back.”
Sherit’s choice to ultimately suit up in or-
ange and blue one last time this fall has been fairly beneficial for the Gators (3-2, 3-1 SEC) through their first five games. The Tampa na-tive has recorded a team-leading seven quar-terback hurries, as well as 19 tackles, 4.5 tackles for loss and two sacks, all of which are on pace to top career highs.
“I feel like this might be my best year,” 
he said. “I owe it to guys in that room. The coaching staff, the team, the guys that pushed me to come back.”
Co-defensive coordinator and defensive 
line coach Chris Rumph said Sherit’s knee injury at the end of last season caused him to change his mindset, going from a player whose game was predicated on strength and 
athleticism to a player guided by his strong 
football IQ.
“With the injury, I think it forced him to 
be more of a student of the game,” Rumph said. “He (hasn’t been) able to do some of 
the things he’s done before he got injured. So 
now, ‘I’ve got to be fundamentally technique sound because I’m just a little off with my legs’ and stuff like that.”
Sherit’s maturity as a redshirt senior has 
set a strong example for Florida’s underclass-men as well.
Born on Sept. 4, 1994, he is the oldest de-
fensive lineman on the team at 23 and has 
embraced serving as a leader for the position 
group’s younger players.
On Tuesday afternoon during the Gators’ 
practice, Rumph became frustrated with first-
year defensive tackle Elijah Conliffe and start-
ed screaming at him.
Sherit, who noticed Conliffe was visibly 
shaken, wrapped his arm around the fresh-man when practice ended and told him to 
“keep working.”
“After that, I could see the body language 
of (Conliffe) just changing,” Rumph said. 
“You can’t help but respect (Sherit). He’s a 
guy who does it right on and off the field.”
While Sherit has been pleased with how his 
redshirt senior campaign has unfolded thus 
far, it has also begun to hit him that his run at UF is nearing an end.“It’s pretty crazy that my 
days in The Swamp are num-
bered,” he said. “That’s why 
I have to cherish every bit of 
time I get and put in as much 
work as I possibly can.” 
For now though, Sherit is 
focused on Florida’s matchup 
with Texas A&M on Saturday 
night, a crucial game for both teams in their quest for an SEC championship. 
“We just gotta get back to 
the drawing board and a lot of 
our goals are still attainable,” 
he said. “For us to still be suc-cessful, we have to change a lot of stuff that we do and work harder on the practice 
field.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 
terback hurries, as well as 19 tackles, 4.5 
tackles for loss and two sacks, all of which 
“I feel like this might be my best year,” 
he said. “I owe it to guys in that room. The 
coaching staff, the team, the guys that pushed 
Co-defensive coordinator and defensive 
line coach Chris Rumph said Sherit’s knee 
injury at the end of last season caused him 
to change his mindset, going from a player 
whose game was predicated on strength and 
athleticism to a player guided by his strong 
“With the injury, I think it forced him to 
be more of a student of the game,” Rumph 
said. “He (hasn’t been) able to do some of 
the things he’s done before he got injured. So 
now, ‘I’ve got to be fundamentally technique 
sound because I’m just a little off with my 
Sherit’s maturity as a redshirt senior has 
set a strong example for Florida’s underclass-
Born on Sept. 4, 1994, he is the oldest de-
fensive lineman on the team at 23 and has 
embraced serving as a leader for the position 
On Tuesday afternoon during the Gators’ 
practice, Rumph became frustrated with first-
year defensive tackle Elijah Conliffe and start-
Sherit, who noticed Conliffe was visibly 
shaken, wrapped his arm around the fresh-
man when practice ended and told him to 
“After that, I could see the body language 
of (Conliffe) just changing,” Rumph said. 
“You can’t help but respect (Sherit). He’s a 
While Sherit has been pleased with how his 
redshirt senior campaign has unfolded thus 
far, it has also begun to hit him that his run at 
“It’s pretty crazy that my 
days in The Swamp are num-
bered,” he said. “That’s why 
I have to cherish every bit of 
time I get and put in as much 
work as I possibly can.” 
For now though, Sherit is 
focused on Florida’s matchup 
with Texas A&M on Saturday 
night, a crucial game for both 
teams in their quest for an SEC 
championship. 
“We just gotta get back to 
the drawing board and a lot of 
our goals are still attainable,” 
he said. “For us to still be suc-
cessful, we have to change a 
lot of stuff that we do and 
work harder on the practice 
field.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 
Rejuvenated: Jordan Sherit making most of inal season at UF
