We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 121 MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
Gators playing elite defense
UF held Virginia to 39 points on Saturday, pg 13
UF administrator hosts feast for St. Patty’s Day
He invited the whole community to stop by, pg. 8
Satchel’s to resume hosting live music 
Months after a ﬁ  re, the restaurant is getting back into its 
groove, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorMEN’S BASKETBALL: FLORIDA 65, VIRGINIA 39
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Twenty minutes after the game 
ended, Kasey Hill sat in front of 
his locker, still wearing orange and 
blue.
He had changed out of his Flor-
ida jersey with the NCAA patch 
on the right shoulder — the one 
he hadn’t worn since 2014 — and 
swapped it for one emblazoned 
with two words: “New York.”
It was a nod to the place where 
the Gators will play next: Madison 
Square Garden, home of the New 
York Knicks. 
“This is deﬁ  nitely a great place 
to be right now,” Hill said with a 
smile. 
It’s a place only Hill has been: 
the Sweet 16.
That’s why even after his team 
embarrassed Virginia on Satur-day, winning in a 65-39 blowout 
to advance to the next round of 
the NCAA Tournament, and even 
after his teammates bounced and danced and sang with excitement afterwards, Hill was relaxed and subdued.
His teammate, junior Devin Robinson, came swaggering 
through the locker room door, 
high-ﬁ  ving teammates while shout-
ing and smiling.
“I was like, ‘Bro, you gotta calm 
down,’” Hill said. “He’s very hap-
py. D’s never been here before.”
Hill, a senior point guard, is the 
last remaining holdover from for-
mer Florida coach Billy Donovan’s tenure, when NCAA Tournament appearances were expected and an early-round exit was an anomaly.
But with its win on Saturday, 
Florida hopes to reestablish itself as a perennial postseason contender.  
“It’s great,” Robinson said. “It’s 
real good to turn this program around and get back to winning.”
No. 4 seed UF (26-8) will face 
No. 8 seed Wisconsin (27-9) in the Sweet 16 on Friday in New York City.
And the Gators got there with-
out much trouble.
After defeating East Tennes-
see State by 15 points in the ﬁ  rst 
round on Thursday, Florida earned a 26-point win over Virginia on Sat-urday, UF’s largest margin of vic- ‘Anything can happen’: UF advances to Sweet 16
LOCAL
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
After disappearing from an Ocala home 
a week ago, a 2-foot-long cobra has popped 
up on Twitter.
The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-
tion Commission has not stopped searching for the multicolored suphan cobra since it escaped its enclosure at 905 NE Fifth St. at about 9 p.m. March 13.
The nameless snake is owned by Brian 
Purdy, who is licensed to handle venomous reptiles. Purdy’s 15-year-old son, Mason, said the snake escaped when his dad was not home, under the watch of an appren-tice who is not yet licensed to handle such dangerous creatures.
Mason said he was the only other per-
son at home when the snake disappeared.
“I was in the other room when I heard it happen — I heard it drop,” he said. “I didn’t know what got out, but I heard him say, ‘Oh gosh.’”
But on social media, using a parody 
Twitter account @OcalaCobra, the miss-ing serpent has convinced 3,298 followers to tune into its snarky remarks to reporters and general Twitter users.
“I’m free for the ﬁ  rst time in my life & I 
just found this iPhone, so why not tweet?” its Twitter bio reads.
Mason, a freshman at Vanguard High 
School, said his family turned the house upside down looking for the cobra. He said FWC ofﬁ  cers brought a search dog to his house in an effort to ﬁ  nd the snake.
Although many of Mason’s neigh-
bors have been extremely understanding throughout the search process, he said oth-ers have panicked. Search continues for Ocala 
cobra following escape HE SPOKE ABOUT INCIDENTS AT 
A BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
MEETING FRIDAY.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs will hold a 
town hall meeting today at 6 p.m. in Emer-
son Hall to gauge students’ opinions about racially charged incidents on campus. 
At a Board of Trustees meeting Friday, 
Fuchs spoke of the challenges of defend-ing free speech while denouncing acts of hate on campus. He spent about 10 min-utes discussing recent racially charged inci-dents on campus, such as a noose found in a Weimer Hall classroom and a man with a swastika on his sleeve on Turlington Plaza. 
Most recently, anti-Muslim grafﬁ  ti was 
found in McCarty Hall B on Thursday, he said.The grafﬁ  ti, which a graduate student 
found in a bathroom stall, said things like, “Muslims kill gays,” UF spokesperson Ja-nine Sikes said. It was removed, and Uni-versity Police Chief Linda Stump-Kurnick was notiﬁ  ed of the incident. 
Fuchs told the board and other top ad-
ministrators that determining how to re-spond to these incidents was difﬁ  cult. He pointed to emails he sent to students after these events and columns he’s written for the Alligator.
“We’re wrestling with that, about what 
we should do,” he said. “We don’t want cameras everywhere on campus, we don’t want patrol ofﬁ  cers on every corner. These are truly rare incidents. Collectively, we feel them.”
Lyrissa Lidsky, a professor at UF’s Levin 
College of Law and a First Amendment ex-pert, said as a Jewish woman she under-stands the hurt felt when racially charged Fuchs to discuss hate on 
campus during town hall Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
The Gators’ bench cheers during No. 4 seed Florida’s 65-39 win against No. 5 seed Virginia in the 
NCAA T ournament Round of 32 on Saturday in Orlando.
 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE COBRA,  PAGE 4 SEE TOWN HALL,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 121
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF’s University Galleries 
presents the MFA Thesis 
Candidates Exhibition I
The University Gallery is pleased to present the Master of Fine Arts Thesis Candidates 
Exhibition I now through Friday. 
The exhibition features artwork 
by graduating UF MFA students. Media represented includes 
graphic design, ceramics, instal-
lation, painting, printmaking, sculpture and video. The exhi-bition and opening reception are free and open to the public. The opening reception will be today at 5:30 p.m. Participants include Brianna Angelakis, Bridget Jeanne Hogan Fairbank, Ashley Fuchs, Brielle Jenkins and Megan Paige Ward.
‘Pity for the Wild: Three 
Grotesques’ by Tennessee WilliamsThe UF School of Theatre and Dance presents a “grotesque version” of Tennessee Williams’ “Pity for the Wild: Three Grotesques” until Sunday. This production features three works by the playwright, who is often considered one of America’s finest. The works, “The Chalky White Substance,” “Something Unspoken” and “The Gnädiges Fräulein,” reintroduce audienc-es to Williams as a playwright of the grotesque, where unfor-gettable characters struggle for equilibrium in worlds interde-pendent of horror and laughter. These plays are quite unlike the Williams most people are ac-customed to. Directed by Tiza Garland and Ralf Remshardt, tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for seniors, UF faculty and staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
352Creates leadership team op-
portunityThe UF Center for Arts in Medicine is currently seeking students to join our 352Creates leadership team. We are seek-ing motivated, communication-driven students for a 60-hour apprenticeship to be completed Friday and Saturday in the cen-ter working with our manage-ment team. This is an exciting opportunity to gain hands-on experience in the areas of com-munity event planning and management, volunteer coor-
dination and team building. 
Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl 
at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short 
letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 
352Creates.com.  
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango Club
Join the UF Argentine Tango 
Club for free tango classes at 
all levels, including first-timers. 
Classes will take place in Dance Studio A in the Reitz Union on Sundays. The beginners class 
will begin at 6:15 p.m., followed 
by an intermediate/advanced 
class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, bal-
let, salsa shoes or even a pair of 
thick socks work just fine. If you 
have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week, April 3 to April 7The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s Second Annual Graduate Student Appreciation Week. This week-long event is designed to cel-ebrate the accomplishments and contributions of more than 12,000 UF graduate stu-dents. The week will show-case the work of UF’s gradu-ate students and highlight the services they provide to the university and the community through research, teaching and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, Graduate Wellness Day with the Counseling & Wellness Center, professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student or-ganization showcase and ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring game. To learn more, please visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
University Galleries presents: 
Currents 2017
 University Galleries and stu-dent organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present Currents 2017 Perception: Color and Content in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from Tuesday to  April 19. There will be an opening reception March 30 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Currents is an annual national juried exhibition co-juried by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. Perception: Color and Content 
is thematically focused on the 
idea of how perception of color 
can change the way content is 
perceived. This important an-nual exhibition selects jurors 
and addresses contemporary 
themes in ceramic art. Currents 
2017 will expand the educa-
tional experience for students within the School of Art + Art 
History and engage the public 
with color and content within 
contemporary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening recep-tion are free and open to the 
public.
Transcription experiment at UF
 UF's Advanced Computing and Information Systems lab needs 
participants for a transcription, 
or digitization, experiment. 
Participants will be paid $10 per hour and can complete one or two hours of experiment. Basic usage of a computer mouse and keyboard are required. Because of payment regulations, only permanent residents or U.S. cit-izens are allowed to participate. Dates and hours are flexible. Sign up by emailing ialzuru@ufl.edu at humain.acis.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION:
In an article published March 17 
titled "Wendy's protest spans 
UF campus," the Alligator in-
correctly reported UF student Cecilia Luna's year of school-ing. She is a senior, not a sopho-
more.HIGH  76° LOW  45°MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
incidents happen, but the First 
Amendment limits response. She said Fuchs has to endure undue criticism of his actions by people who do not understand the guar-antees of the amendment. 
“We, as government actors — and as a public university we are government actors — cannot ban speech simply because we find it hateful or offensive,” she said. “So long as it is peaceful and in a public space, we must allow that speech.”
Zina Evans, the vice president 
for UF’s Division of Enrollment Management, said it’s hard to have conversations about what steps to take when people are still hurting. She said you have to ad-dress the hurt first, and then you can move forward.
“When you’re hurting, when 
you have personally been slapped in the face, civility and deep con-versation are kind of 10 layers be-low that emotion,” Evans said. Alejandro Arteaga, a 22-year-
old UF business administration se-nior, said he understands the lim-its the First Amendment imposes on response but thinks more could be done. 
He said when the man wearing 
the swastika was on campus, it could have spiraled out of control and the police should have inter-vened. 
“I believe that there has to be 
a limit,” he said. “That can end in violence, that could have ended in a different way, and there has to be a limit.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
TOWN HALL,  from pg.1During the meeting, officials addressed First Amendment rights“They’re definitely overreact-
ing,” he said. “These things don’t come at people to attack them. They get defensive, though, if they’re cornered.”
Mason said if the snake is 
found, his father will turn it over 
to the FWC. However, Mason said he doesn’t think that will hap-
pen, because he’s almost certain the cold-blooded creature died 
because of cold temperatures out-side.
Kurt Dotten, the Purdy’s next-
door neighbor, also assumes the snake is dead.
“Their bodies don’t produce 
heat, so they’d only last about 15 minutes in temperatures below 40 degrees,” Dotten, 32, said.
Dotten searched around his 
house for hours after hearing the snake was missing. He said he’s surprised so many people are up-set about the situation.
“People around here are shoot-
ing guns, doing drugs, and they’re worried about a damn cobra?” Dotten asked.
When Kristen Jackson heard 
about a cobra on the loose in her hometown, she said thought it was a joke.
The UF civil engineering fresh-
man joked that she wouldn’t be 
going home to Ocala as long as the 
venomous reptile was missing.
“When I found out it wasn’t a joke, I got a little concerned, be-cause the house is just a couple miles from one of the more pop-ular parks that a lot of people, a lot of kids, go to,” the 18-year-old said. 
Steve Johnson, a UF profes-
sor in the Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, said it’s possible the snake died in the cold. He also said it’s possible it 
slithered into a small, warm and 
confined nook in a nearby home.
Johnson said there are many snake enthusiasts in Florida, and although it can be thrilling and fascinating to own a venomous reptile, it’s not necessary or safe.
“I don’t think people need 
to be keeping cobras and other highly venomous snakes as pets,” Johnson said. “That’s my person-al opinion. I think it ought to be against the law.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
COBRA,  from pg.1Some speculate the cobra may have died from the cold weatherBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
For the first time, Uber will have 
competition in Gainesville.
Lyft, a ride-hailing app similar to 
Uber, officially launched March 9 in 
Gainesville, Alachua, Newberry and 
High Springs.
Rick Peters, a brand ambassador 
for Lyft, said although he can’t give 
a definite number, many Uber driv-ers have already signed up to work for Lyft in Alachua County.
“I would say that 95 percent 
of our sign-ups have been either current or former Uber drivers in Gainesville,” Peters said. “We are 
well ahead of our expectations for 
driver sign-ups.”
Lyft drivers have more of an 
incentive to make the switch from Uber, Peters said. For example, a 
passenger is able to tip a driver on their phone after a ride, which is a 
feature Uber does not offer.
Peters said Lyft’s Spring Break 
launch wasn’t to generate revenue but to introduce the company into Gainesville and UF’s bustling com-
munity.
“It was to get our name out there 
and have a few months to get the bugs out, so that come Fall — and 
football season — we are forefront 
and center, instead of being new to the game,” Peters said.
Not everyone is celebrating 
Lyft’s arrival.
Uber driver Jose Vilches said he 
already competes with other Uber drivers for business, and more 
competition on the road means less work for him.
“I’m not too thrilled about it,” 
the UF industrial and systems engi-
neering senior said.
Vilches, 23, said he thinks Lyft 
will gain a strong customer base after people protested Uber na-
tionwide in the wake of President Donald Trump’s immigration ban in January, according to Alligator 
archives. 
Although Vilches said he may 
have a harder time finding custom-
ers, he thinks Uber will still flourish 
at UF.
“Uber tends to have lower prices 
than Lyft,” Vilches said. “Especial-ly in a college environment where 
people just want to get from point A to point B at the lowest cost pos-
sible, I think Uber will always be 
popular.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgRide-hailing app Lyft brings competition to GainesvilleAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Wade Fitzgerald, a 19-year-old UF music and biology sophomore, 
plays the carillon inside Century T ower as part of a tour. T ours usually follow recitals given by Carillon Studio students.
By Jacqueline Disla 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s Levin College of Law 
ranked 41st in the nation this 
month — up seven spots from 
last year. 
The magazine U.S. News & 
World Report released the rank-
ings, where UF was 41 out of 197 
law schools, March 13, according to its website.
Laura Rosenbury, the col-
lege’s dean, said she’s worked to improve the college, which has 
grown in its diversity and number 
of applicants. 
“As the best law school in the 
third largest state, we deserve a much higher national profile, and this is a step in the right direc-
tion,” Rosenbury said. 
Since she started at UF on July 
1, 2015, she said she has worked to choose quality applicants and help graduates find jobs.
The number of applications for 
the incoming 2016 class increased by 98 percent from the previous 
year, she said. That class also had a higher median law school apti-
tude test (LSAT) score, from 157 
to 160, and a higher median GPA, from 3.5 to 3.6. 
The class was the most diverse 
in the law school’s history, with 36 percent of students identifying 
as racially and ethnically diverse, 
she said. 
Rosenbury said she worked 
with faculty to assure every 2015 graduate without a job would have one by March 2016, which 
was successful. 
UF Law is on track to improve 
the university’s overall quality, she said.
“Raising our national profile 
increases the value of all of our students’ degrees, as well as the degrees of our alumni,” she said. 
Nax Joye, a 26-year-old UF 
Law second-year student, said he believes the college should be 
ranked higher. 
“Our faculty and several of 
our academic programs are actu-ally far above what we’re ranked now,” he said. “I think that we 
have room to grow, and I think 
we’ll continue to do so.”In national ranking, UF Law 
climbs seven spots to No. 41
 The app allows for passengers to tipTOP FIVE NATIONAL 
LAW SCHOOLS
• Yale University 
• Stanford University 
• Harvard University 
• University of Chicago 
• Columbia University MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE DECEMBER FIRE 
DESTROYED THE 
RESTAURANT’S GIFT SHOP .
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff Writer
Satchel’s Pizza is resuming live 
music five nights a week three 
months after a fire destroyed part 
of the restaurant’s property.
Satchel Raye, the 49-year-old owner of Satchel’s, announced Saturday that performers will be scheduled at a new temporary stage, dubbed “Lightnin’ Salvage Lite,” in the back of the restau-rant’s parking lot. The Decem-ber fire damaged the gift shop 
and outdoor seating area, called 
“Lightnin’ Salvage,” where live music was held.
“We had lost a lot of business, 
but this is a way we can kind of keep the momentum going and make money for our new build-ing,” Raye said. 
After the fire destroyed the 
gift shop, which made about 30 percent of the store’s business, live performances had to end, 
Raye said. But after an increase in 
weekday business, Raye said he wanted to bring them back.
The temporary stage area, 
which can hold about 40 people, is outside below a decoration air-plane suspended 12 feet in the air. 
“We’re trying to create the 
same casual, low-key environ-ment that we once had,” he said. 
Nightly performances, which 
have included belly dancing and 
live storytelling, will last through 
graduation at UF, Raye said. If business remains steady, the res-
taurant will continue performanc-
es through summer.Nick Johnson, a 22-year-old 
UF geography and sustainability studies senior, said he has eaten and enjoyed the local music at Satchel’s for more than five years. 
“It’s such a unique restau-
rant,” Johnson said. “I love how they’re continuing to spotlight these local bands.”
@chesnesmax
mchesnes@alligator.org
Satchel’s to resume live music three months after fire
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After anti-Muslim graffiti was 
found inside an on-campus bath-
room Thursday, the UF Student 
Government Judiciary Commit-
tee passed two resolutions con-
demning hate — while defend-
ing free speech.
The resolutions addressed in-
stances such as racist writing on 
Anderson Hall chalkboards and a 
man wearing a swastika on Tur-
lington Plaza. Resolutions state the Student Senate’s stance but 
don’t require action. The com-
mittee passed both unanimously Sunday, and Senate will vote on them Tuesday.
The committee also passed a 
resolution sending condolences to the families of two UF stu-dents who died in a car accident during Spring Break. 
Sen. Yael Diamond (Impact, Springs) co-authored a resolu-tion with Sens. Wallace Mazon (Impact, District E) and Nicolas LoMurro (Impact, Hume) stating 
the university “has been a victim 
of several incidents of racially triggered events.” 
The resolution states the “acts 
of hatred will not (be) tolerated 
at this institution.”  
“We wanted to make sure 
that the students and the univer-
sity knew the Senate’s position on these issues,” Diamond said.  
Sen. Brett Oehrle (Impact, 
District B) authored the resolu-
tion stating Senate condemns 
hate speech but defends people’s First Amendment rights and sup-ports open dialogue among stu-
dents.Oehrle said his resolution 
focuses more on hate speech 
rather than condemning specific acts. His resolution encourages students to take advantage of campus services such as U Mat-
ter, We Care. 
“We want our students to feel 
safe and accepted on campus 
regardless of any and all identi-
ties,” he said.
Lauren Kirkley, 18, said hate 
speech is unacceptable, and al-
though people have the right to free speech, others have the 
right to protest. 
She said she hopes senators 
take a stance on the offensive 
acts. 
“If the Student Government 
doesn’t recognize these issues, there’s a problem,” the UF politi-cal science freshman said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF SG resolutions condemn hate 
on campus, defend free speech
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
DOUGHNUT HOLES AND HOUSING
Lauren Culbreth, a 19-year-old UF applied physiology and 
kinesiology student, tosses a doughnut onto a ring for a prize at the Student Government Spring Housing Fair on Friday.
“W e want our students to feel 
safe and accepted on campus.”
Brett Oehrle
Impact SenatorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Republican response to Obamacare will cost us
It’s no secret the Affordable Care Act — col-
loquially known as Obamacare — wasn’t perfect. It succeeded in helping those who 
weren’t insured, because of preexisting 
conditions or otherwise. There is an indi-
vidual mandate, which attempts to decrease the costs brought on by emergency room visits, but 
it didn’t address the ballooning costs of health 
care or the fact that the U.S. still has one of the highest numbers for health care spending per capita, according to the World Bank. 
Still, the Republican Party’s health care plan takes us 
back almost a decade when those with preexisting condi-tions struggled to ﬁ  nd an insurer to accept them and birth control didn’t have to be covered. The U.S. was, and still is, spending more money on health care than in countries 
with a single-payer system, like Denmark and Canada. The 
health care debate was particularly difﬁ  cult because, un-like ﬁ  xing the school system or infrastructure, democrats and republicans were debating whether health care was a problem to be ﬁ  xed at all. Obamacare didn’t go far enough, 
but it still managed to beneﬁ  t women by making insurance 
cover birth control. 
President Donald Trump’s response to Obamacare is just 
a reaction — it does not come up with any innovative ideas that ﬁ  x the problem of paying for health care. Although 
Trump promised continued coverage for preexisting condi-
tions, the lower penalties and higher premiums for older people mean the costs will no longer even out, according to a Steven Rattner opinion piece in The New York Times.
With many politicians, like Florida’s own Marco Rubio, hiding from their constituents to avoid going to town halls, it’s hardly surprising they are not in touch with what it means to be a regular Ameri-
can. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, claimed in an 
interview with CNN that paying for health care is as simple as not getting the newest iPhone. As California’s lieutenant governor pointed out, 
skipping an iPhone upgrade will hardly make a 
dent in the average annual health care cost of $10,345. Having health insurance doesn’t mean you can go to the doctor whenever you want — 
you still must consider your deductible, which physicians 
are covered by your plan, and numerous other factors. 
The truth is that health care isn’t like other goods or 
services. Most people don’t shop around for the prices of 
an X-ray like they would for the price of a new car. If you 
ask for a price on a laptop, you expect a straight answer 
(without tax). In contrast, if you asked the front desk at the doctor’s ofﬁ  ce how much it would cost to get a hepatitis B vaccination, you would have to argue with them, and then wait for upward of 30 minutes while they ﬁ  gure out 
the price. People don’t drive from doctor to doctor waiting 
for the lowest price. Cheapness in medical care evokes im-ages of the TV series “Botched,” where patients often come in because they decided to get cut-rate plastic surgery that 
needs to be ﬁ  xed. 
Choice sounds great on an individual level, where cus-
tomers can decide exactly what level of coverage they 
want. But this is no more than a Band-Aid on the wound that is the American health care system. According to CNN, 
Americans pay two to six times more for their drugs than 
the rest of the world. Costs make health care inaccessible to many, and this will continue under the Republican Party’s plan.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.Keep PBS funding 
for the kids
If you grew up with the basic cable package while the rest 
of your kindergarten classmates were watching “SpongeBob SquarePants,” you tuned into shows like “Arthur,” “Sesame Street” and “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” on your local PBS station. This was before the days of Netﬂ  ix and Amazon 
Prime, and if your parents didn’t have one of those fancy satellite dishes, then you were limited to just a handful of basic channels, and your days of television included Barney the dinosaur and “Dragon Tales.” If you’re one of those people, we hope you’re smiling fondly. Even if you were fortunate to have Playhouse Disney or Nickelodeon, you’ve probably at least seen some of the old PBS Kids shows. 
Last week, President Donald Trump submitted his budget 
proposal, which includes cuts to various government organiza-
tions — NASA, the Environmental Protection Agency and the De-
partment of Education among some. All of the arts and cultural agencies got cut in the budget proposal: the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the In-stitute of Museum and Library Services and, yes, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Those arts and cultural agencies only represented .02 percent of the budget in the ﬁ  rst place; the CPB costs citizens about $1.35 a year. 
People who support this change argue that PBS programming 
is dull and not up to par with other channels and streaming ser-vices such as HBO, Netﬂ  ix and ESPN. To those people, we’d like to say that is not the point of PBS. It has never been the point of PBS to produce content to churn in large audiences and high reviews. The point of PBS is to be an accessible network for edu-cation and arts. It’s not supposed to be full of star-studded names and raunchy scenes. 
And to those arguing that PBS is useless and serves no enter-
tainment purpose, we will say PBS is not for you.
PBS is not made for those who have Netﬂ  ix accounts (or their 
parents’ accounts). It’s not made for children who are given their own iPad at the age of 2. That’s not saying those people can’t enjoy PBS; by all means, tune into episodes of “Downton Abbey” or “Antiques Roadshow.” PBS can be enjoyed by everyone.
But PBS is made for those who don’t have hundreds of chan-
nels or access to streaming. It’s made for families with a basic cable package, who still deserve to have access to programming, especially children’s programming. The PBS Ready to Learn Pro-
gram, for instance, helps teach children under 5 basic skills in 
math, literacy and social development. Not all children grow up with the luxury of having their parents or nannies home all day. If you remember learning phonetics with “Between the Lions” or negative numbers with “Cyberchase” or how to confront a bully with the delightful anamorphic cast of “Arthur,” just to name a few, then you know just how educational (and entertaining) these programs can be. To some of us, it was a supplement to preschool; to others, it was the fundamentals. 
PBS’ goal is to make education and the arts accessible to all, 
especially to the kids out there who only have PBS. Should this proposed budget go through, all the arts and cultural programs will need our support. If you think you could do without them, then congratulations, you’re lucky, because those programs were probably not meant for you.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“This is no more than a 
Band-Aid on the wound.” RESULTS FROM THURSDAY’S TWITTER POLL
Q: Should Smith Meyers resign?
54% - Yes
35% - No11% - Impartial(2,211 total votes)MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
You’re in your late 20s or early 30s. 
It’s time to get married. It’s time to have children. It’s time to build a better future for yourself and your family while contributing to soci-
ety.
To achieve this, you’ve decided to pur-
sue a graduate degree, but UF has no plans to support graduate students with children.
Child care facilities at universities enable 
student parents to devote time to their aca-demic and professional success. With the kids taken care of, parents can also earn the income necessary to sustain their family.
Baby Gator nursery, UF’s on-campus 
child care facility, has traditionally enrolled graduate-student parents’ children at a re-duced rate. But Baby Gator is an auxiliary organization, which means they do not re-ceive funding from UF to support their pro-gram. Due to rising operational costs and a stagnant state subsidy, Baby Gator is unable to cover the widening gap between child care costs and student-parent paid tuition. This decreased child care services available for student parents. Enrollment of gradu-ate-student parents’ children decreased by 27 percent over the past four years.Baby Gator currently costs 
$7,500 to $10,000 per year, which is outside the means of even the most afﬂ  uent graduate students. In some cases, this equals a grad-uate assistant’s entire annual sti-pend, and they are likely to wait a year or more for one of the 54 high-cost spaces Baby Gator cur-rently has available.  
This approach to child care is well be-
hind the times and puts UF at an institu-tional disadvantage. It negatively impacts our studies, teaching and careers, while also forcing students to put off child rear-ing during their healthiest and most fertile years. The lack of institutional support reﬂ  ects a society where men work while women stay home. UF needs to move into the 21st century.
In contrast to UF, other top 10 public in-
stitutions provide generous support to their student parents. The University of Michi-gan offers a maximum child care subsidy of $2,630 per child each semester, and the University of California, Santa Barbara, has a tiered tuition for child care services that reduces student parents’ cost to just more than half of that for faculty and staff. If UF wants to be ranked among such peers, why doesn’t it support graduate students by offsetting the cost of child care in similar ways?
Until recently, Florida’s School 
Readiness Program, administered by the Florida education depart-ment’s Ofﬁ  ce of Early Learning, 
provided signiﬁ  cant child care subsidies for graduate-student parents. Under this program parents were not expected to pay more than 10 percent of their income for child care. But a new policy effective Dec. 18 excludes graduate students. Between the lack of funding at Baby Gator and the ex-clusion of graduate students from the Early Learning Coalition, there is no longer any affordable child care for graduate students at UF. 
Graduate-student parents seek to educate 
ourselves so we can provide better lives for our children. We don’t see our low-income situation as permanent, but without help, many of us will not make it to graduation. Graduate-student parents often report that child care is critical for them to complete their studies.
Graduate Assistants United at UF is urg-
ing the administration to make child care a priority for graduate parents. The con-tract for UF graduate assistants states that UF representatives from Human Resources and the graduate school have an obligation to meet with GAU to discuss research on child care. This clause has been in the con-tract since 2014, but the Childcare Research Committee has yet to meet. 
UF’s administration needs to step up 
and support graduate-student parents. Baby Gator needs institutional support by way of more facilities and funding. They need ﬁ  -nancial support, either directed toward stu-dent parents in the form of subsidies or the program itself. UF must seek new contrac-tual terms to guarantee graduate-student parents a successful academic career. To become a truly preeminent institution, on par with the very top public universities na-tionwide, UF must provide child care subsi-dies for its student parents.
Rebecca Pethes, a UF counselor educa-
tion graduate student, and Michael Vin-cent, a UF doctoral candidate in musicol-ogy, co-authored this letter to the editor. 
UF's administration needs to support graduate-student parents in needGuest column
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Larry King, 76, loosens a rack holding a roasted pig as Jim Ferrer, 66, makes a tent out of aluminum foil to 
keep it warm for a St. Patrick’s Day party at the corner of Northwest 14th Avenue and Northwest 18th Street on Saturday. King and Ferrer roasted the pig for about four hours before serving it.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
A cake lies on a table during a St. Patrick’s Day party thrown by Jim Ferrer and David Nicholson at their home on Saturday. Ferrer and Nicholson have thrown the party for several years and invite the whole neighborhood.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Larry King spent the morning 
of his 56th wedding anniversary roasting a nearly 41-pound pig.
He and his wife, Carole, drove 
down from Mississippi to spend the weekend at his brother-in-law’s annual St. Patrick’s Day party. Jim Ferrer has hosted a party at his house to celebrate the holiday for the past ﬁ  ve or six years, he said, but the pig for Saturday’s feast was a new addition.
“Everybody, or at least a lot of people, pretend they’re Irish on St. 
Patrick’s Day,” said King, who is 
German.
Irish ﬂ  ags hung from the roof 
of Ferrer’s house, along with pen-
nants in orange, white and green. 
A 5-foot-tall inﬂ  ated leprechaun stood grinning by the entrance. A 
large bounce house sat on the cor-
ner for neighborhood kids.
Each square of the sidewalk in 
front of his home is painted with a  
green shamrock.
Ferrer, the former assistant vice 
president of ﬁ  nance and planning 
at UF, hosts the party with his part-ner, David Nicholson. The couple 
has been together for 43 years. 
Ferrer said Nicholson is the 
main party planner. Nicholson 
used to plan other parties for 
Christmas and New Year’s. In New 
Orleans, he started a parade for St. Patrick’s Day and wanted to keep 
the spirit going when they moved 
to Gainesville. 
“This is tradition now,” Ferrer 
said. “We lived in New Orleans, 
and we lived in Irish Channel, 
and it’s a big holiday there. So we 
wanted to bring that tradition over here.”Throughout the day Saturday, 
about 200 people stopped by, Nicholson said. To feed the crowd, they prepared the pig along with 21 pounds of pulled pork King 
brought down from Mississippi. 
They also set up a keg of 
Killian’s Irish Red beer and had two volunteer bartenders serving 
wine.
Nicholson said the party helps 
them meet other people in the 
neighborhood. He said they put 
up ﬂ  iers and invited everybody 
around, even welcoming strangers.
It becomes a mob, he said, but he likes it.
“You’ve got to bring the com-
munity up with you,” Nicholson said.
Ferrer said it’s nice to get to 
meet the new residents and see old 
friends.
“I think that’s what makes this 
neighborhood special, is people 
talk to each other, because they’re walking their dogs,” Ferrer said. “They’re not sitting behind closed 
doors.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  Former UF administrator hosts annual St. Patty’s Day feast MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR  9
SHE GAVE POLICE HER CAR’S 
OWNERS MANUAL WHEN THEY 
ASKED FOR ID.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
As patrons of Gainesville’s bar scene cele-
brated St. Patrick’s Day on Friday, one woman 
was arrested for driving drunk through people’s 
front yards, Florida Highway Patrol said.
At about 9:55 p.m., Marsha Vyann Lee, 58, 
drove her red Chevrolet SUV through yards be-
fore neighbors near the intersection of North-
east 32nd Drive and Northeast 142nd Lane 
called police, according to an arrest report. Re-sponding FHP troopers found her car parked in a driveway that wasn’t hers.
When troopers asked Lee for her driver’s 
license, vehicle registration and insurance, she gave them the car’s owners manual, according to the report. Lee almost fell over when she walked, and she smelled like alcohol.
She initially agreed to perform ﬁ  eld sobri-ety exercises, but while a 
trooper placed red tape on 
the ground for the test, she 
changed her mind and said she wouldn’t do anything 
police asked of her, accord-
ing to the report.
Troopers found two bot-
tles of Fireball Cinnamon 
Whisky in Lee’s car, according to the report. 
One of the bottles was empty, and the other 
was almost empty.
Lee refused to submit to a breathalyzer test 
or talk with police, according to the report.
Police arrested Lee on charges of driving 
under the inﬂ  uence and refusing to submit to a DUI test after her license was suspended. Au-thorities took her to the Alachua County Jail, where she was released Saturday on her own 
recognizance.
Lee could not be reached for comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgFHP: GNV woman drives 
drunk through front yards
Lee
By Scottie Andrew
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents will have to wait 
ﬁ  ve more months for the new Cade Mu-
seum for Creativity and Invention to open.
The museum, which is dedicated to the 
inventor of Gatorade, Robert Cade, aims 
to teach math and science by using art 
and creativity. Although the facility will be complete in August, the museum will open in January 2018  in Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave., following a series of preview events, said Stephanie Bailes, the museum’s executive director.
“We wanted to make sure that we are 
doing the best that we can … in the space 
that we have,” she said. “That’s why we’re 
taking our time to open.”
Until its grand opening in January, staff 
will install new exhibits, train employees and furnish two lab areas: the Creativity Lab, for innovative experimenting, and the Fab Lab, outﬁ  tted with 3-D printers and an original printing press, she said.
Project manager Josh Blackford said 
construction is on schedule, despite the complicated design.
“There’s not a square corner in the 
building,” he said.
More than 90 percent of the building’s 
exterior will sport a custom-bent metal ﬁ  n-ish for a futuristic look, he said.
“You won’t look up and say, ‘I’ve seen 
this before,’” Blackford said.
Bailes said the staff chose to build in De-
pot Park because it connects Gainesville to the rest of the community.
“We want people to take these ideas 
back out into the community and share with their family and friends,” she said.
  Grand opening for Cade 
Museum set for 2018
CADE PROGRAMS
• Fab Lab — Fabricating materials 
with the use of computers, 3-D printers and scanners, laser cutters and hand tools.
• Creativity Lab — Learning how to do science differently by mixing art and the humanities together.MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-29-17-55-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
3-24-17-8-14
Sun Country Sports
is hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 15 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     3-27-17-9-14
 ACROSS
1 Negative
attention from the
press, briefly
6 Deep-voiced
opera singer
11 “I knew it!”
14 Blazing15 Gossip spreader16 Abu Dhabi is its
cap.
17 Change one’s
route to avoidheavy traffic, say
19 Org. for
marksmen
20 “You __ here”
21 Pipe-cleaning
brand
22 Composer
Stravinsky
23 Likely successor
to the throne
26 Magnificent
29 Epps of “House”
30 Have no doubt
31 Fabulist
mentioned by
Aristotle
34 Soda
37 “You’re confusing
me”
41 Capitol Hill fig.
42 Quarrel
43 Machu Picchu
resident
44 “Me neither!”
46 Sacred river of
India
48 Sprained ankle,
often
53 “Peter Pan” beast
54 Safe place?55 Help in finding
the hiddentreasure
58 Kept under wraps
59 Climactic show
ending, and a
literal hint to thispuzzle’s circledletters
62 Blanc who voiced
Bugs
63 “__ bet?”
64 Kind of panel or
system
65 Keats work
66 Annual
celebrations, for
short
67 Plot surprise
DOWN
1 The Crimson
Tide, familiarly2 In the distance
3 Storied water
barrier
4 Ante-
5 Page turner6 Way to play
music if you can’t
read it
7 Insurance giant
8 Busybody9 Good name for a
lover of hearty
meals
10 Paddle11 Gut feeling at
dinner time?
12 Packers
quarterbackRodgers
13 EKG organ18 Smidgen
22 Nest egg
acronym
23 Previously cut, as
timber
24 Penniless25 Gig equipment
26 Decide not to go
to
27 Loosen, as a knot
28 Cylindrical water
toy
31 Director Lee
32 School URL
ending33 “Comprende?”
35 Fairy tale starter36 High-tech appt.
books
38 Sharp-tasting
39 “Exodus” author
Leon
40 Minuscule
45 Tolkien beast46 __ of Mexico47 Whistler, but not
his mother
48 Blockhead49 Jimmied (open)50 The first Mrs.
Trump
51 Mary Poppins, e.g.52 Biblical betrayer55 Timbuktu’s
country
56 “__, poor
Yorick!”: Hamlet
57 Cheeky59 Pres. #4360 “Cool!”61 “Immediately!”
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/20/1703/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, March 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. In 2015, Josh Donaldson became 
the second Toronto Blue Jay to win 
the A.L. MVP Award. Who was the 
first?
2. Who of these three major-league 
pitchers had the biggest positive dif-
ferential between wins and losses in 
his career: Roger Clemens, Randy 
Johnson or Greg Maddux?
3. Four Florida Gators football 
coaches have been named SEC Coach of the Year. Name three of them.
4. In 2015, Atlanta’s Kyle Korver 
became the fourth-oldest player (33) to make the NBA All-Star Game for 
the first time. Who was older?
5. How many NHL coaches reached 
500 career victories before the first 
U.S.-born one (Columbus’ John Tor -
torella) accomplished it in 2016?
6. In what sport did Fiji win its first 
Olympic medal in 2016?
7. Which golfer holds the PGA 
record for most victories in his 30s?
Answers:
1. George Bell, in 1987.
2. Clemens was plus 170, Johnson 
plus 137 and Maddux plus 128.
3. Ray Graves (1960), Steve Spurri-
er (‘91, ‘94, ‘95, ‘96), Will Muschamp (2012) and Jim McElwain (2015).
4. Nat “Sweetwater” Clifton (34 in 
1957), Anthony Mason (34 in 2001) and Sam Cassell (34 in 2004).
5. Twenty-three.
6. Men’s rugby sevens, where Fiji 
won the gold medal.
7. Arnold Palmer, with 44.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 20, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
General maintenance positions available. 
Light duty - fence work, janitorial, pressure washing, irrigation, etc. Email resume to jobs@mssgainesville.com for consideration. $11-15/hr.         3-21-17-5-14
Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Research A ssistant position
requires Javascript, AWS,  
email 1 page resume to science@mammacare.org    3-30-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance accepted
Marcywilson.com ½ price for
veterans or cancer patients
Call/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
Divorce - Paternity - Child Support
Sharon L. Neil, Esq.
(352) 494-8848
www.neilcivillaw.com/family-law
3-23-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Roland Thornqvist said the UF women's tennis team is "hell bound" on avenging its loss to Georgia. Read the story, pg. 16Gators women's golf opens tournament today 
Florida will travel to South Carolina for the Briar's Creek Invitational. For a 
full preview, go online to alligator.org/sportsBASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer 
Jonathan India didn’t even 
reach for the ball. Instead, he 
watched as it zipped past him, carrying the game with it. 
It happened in the bottom of 
the ninth inning with Florida tied at Auburn. UF senior Frank Rubio was facing runners on ﬁ  rst and sec-ond with no outs. So when a drib-
bler came his way off the bat of Au-
burn leadoff man Jonah Todd, he 
tried to get the lead runner at third. 
He missed. Badly. The ball whizzed past India — 
who made no effort to try and catch 
it — before barreling into a brick 
wall and bouncing toward the out-ﬁ  eld. Auburn’s Blake Logan trotted home to secure the 6-5 win and his 
school’s ﬁ  rst sweep over UF since 
1987 as his teammates poured out 
of the dugout to shower him in wa-ter, Gatorade and affection. 
“We just didn’t do enough of-
fensively in the middle innings 
and just shot ourselves in the foot 
defensively today,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release, “which is certainly uncharacteristic of us.”
Florida has relied on its pitching 
to win games all season, and Sun-day was no exception. Starter Jack-son Kowar went six innings and al-lowed two earned runs, and No. 5 UF’s bullpen threw three scoreless innings before Rubio’s error. 
However, Florida (13-8, 0-3 
SEC) has also relied heavily on its defense to win games, entering Sunday leading the SEC with a .984 ﬁ  elding percentage. But on Sun-day, as O’Sullivan referenced, UF's defense failed it. 
Facing a bases-loaded, two-out 
situation in the third inning, UF shortstop Christian Hicks had a chance to get the Gators out of the jam when a high pop-up went his way. 
He dropped it. Two runs scored. Then, up by one run in the 
bottom of the sixth inning, center ﬁ  elder Andrew Baker was tracking a ﬂ  y ball in center ﬁ  eld when he slipped and fell. He popped back  Gators get swept at Auburn in SEC-opening series
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Jonathan India rounds the bases after homering in UF's win over Miami on Feb. 25 at McKethan Stadium. Against Auburn on Sunday, India committed an error. 
MONDAY MATTERS / OPINION
The Gators basketball team is riding 
a wave of momentum back to the Sweet Sixteen for the ﬁ  rst time in 
three seasons. For that, Florida fans 
can thank the Gators defense, which 
put on a truly absurd display of dominance in No. 4 seed UF’s 65-39 win over No. 5 
seed Virginia on Saturday in Orlando.
Never before had the Gators held a team 
under 40 points in March Madness.
At one point, the Gators defense held the 
Cavaliers without a point for a full eight minutes and 23 seconds of game time. With 5:38 left in the ﬁ  rst half, UF 
led 19-17. Virginia didn’t get over that 17-point hump until Florida led 40-19 two minutes and 45 seconds into the second half.
To put an incredible stretch of scoreless defense like 
that into context, Virginia was held scoreless longer than it takes to cook four Hot Pockets back-to-back-to-back-to-back.
Longer than it takes for magician David Blaine to 
swallow and regurgitate a frog.
Longer than it took "La La Land" to win, and lose, an 
Oscar for best picture. 
Longer than it took the Patriots to erase a 16-point 
fourth quarter deﬁ  cit in Super Bowl LI. 
Longer than it took for Bane to hijack and disassem-ble a plane in "The Dark Knight Rises."
“There is a reason why Florida, in de-
fensive efﬁ  ciency, is in the top ﬁ  ve in the country. They really defend,” Virginia coach Tony Bennett said. “We had too many breakdowns. Then it was separated.”
The Cavaliers’ 17 points in the ﬁ  rst half 
was the worst scoring start they’ve had all season.
“In Virginia’s defense, they missed a few 
open ones," UF coach Mike White said. "We 
got a couple bounces our way."
But White conceded that’s as well as the team’s de-
fense has performed all year.
Point guard Chris Chiozza said that’s the kind of de-
fense that led the Gators to a nine-game win streak mid-
season.
“That’s why we were able to go on that win streak,” 
Chiozza said. “We had our defense and our offense 
clicking on all cylinders, and I think that this game really 
helped us get back to that.”
Combine Florida’s eight-plus shutout minutes on de-
fense with a season-best 21-0 spurt, and Virginia was 
toast.
“They’re potent. They get down the ﬂ  oor,” Bennett 
said of the Gators. “I was just trying to ﬁ  gure out at the half, ‘Is there anything we can do?’”   
UF rocking a Final Four defense ahead of Sweet 16
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
With two outs in the top of 
the third inning, Jaimie Hoover 
was up to bat.
The freshman from Suwanee, 
Georgia, faced a bases-loaded situation and was looking to ex-tend her team's lead. 
She was up against South 
Carolina pitcher Nickie Blue, who had already struck her out in the second inning. And in her last eight games, Hoover had just two hits.
But Sunday’s at-bat was dif-
ferent.
Hoover blasted a ball down 
the ﬁ  rst-base line to send home Alex Voss, Amanda Lorenz and Nicole Dewitt for an RBI triple.
In an overwhelmingly offen-
sive game in which eight Gators batted at least three times, Flor-ida (26-1, 5-0 SEC) completed the sweep over South Carolina, winning 10-0 in ﬁ  ve innings in Columbia on Sunday.
The scoring for Florida didn’t 
begin until the third inning, catalyzed with a single up the middle by junior Aleshia Ocasio. Two batters later, redshirt fresh-man Sophia Reynoso hit a hom-er to left ﬁ  eld to push the Gators ahead 2-0.
It was Reynoso’s second 
home run of the season and her ﬁ  rst since Feb. 12. She ended Sunday’s game with two hits and two RBIs.
Then, after Blue walked De-
Witt, Kayli Kvistad and senior Janell Wheaton, Hoover con-verted the triple to push the lead to 5-0.
Hoover had two hits and a 
career-high ﬁ  ve RBIs on the day.
Later on, following an  Florida softball team 
sweeps South Carolina
SEE SOFTEBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill drives into the paint during Florida’s win over Virginia on Saturday. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kevarrius Hayes attempts to block a shot from Virginia’s Marial Shayok during UF’s 
win over the Cavaliers on Saturday. Hayes scored seven points in his 25 minutes.
tory in the NCAA Tournament in 
program history.
At times, the game was painful 
to watch.
Virginia had just 17 points at 
halftime, and its head coach, Tony 
Bennett, could only stare blankly at his team after each careless turn-
over, after each missed shot, and 
after each Florida shooter left wide open.
“I was trying to ﬁ  gure out at 
the half, ‘Is there anything that we can do?’” Bennett said. “To get 
smacked like that is tough.”
And even though UF’s leading 
scorer, KeVaughn Allen, struggled through the ﬁ  rst two rounds, scor-ing just 11 total points, his team-
mates stepped up.
Against East Tennessee State 
and Virginia, Robinson scored 38 
total points on 15-of-25 shooting to 
go along with 18 rebounds.
And senior forward Justin Leon 
ﬁ  nished with 14 points and 10 re-bounds against the Cavaliers on Saturday.
“If Devin and Justin don’t step 
up and hit the shots that they did,” UF coach Mike White said, “this would’ve been a war.”
White and the Gators will likely 
face a stiffer challenge on Friday 
against Wisconsin, who upset No. 
1 overall seed Villanova on Satur-day.But with a veteran-laden 
team and two tournament wins 
already secured, Florida is feeling 
conﬁ  dent. 
“It’s March,” junior Chris Chi-
ozza said. “Anything can happen.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg.1Florida’s next opponent, Wisconsin, beat No. 1 seed VillanovaMONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR  15
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
up immediately, regaining his view of 
the ball and, after shufﬂ  ing back and 
forth a few times, getting under it to 
squeeze it. 
But as he threw the ball in with a 
smile on his face, O’Sullivan wasn’t smiling. Not after Hicks had already dropped a similar ball. 
Later on, Auburn (17-5, 3-0 SEC) 
was threatening to score after catcher Blake Logan opened the bottom of the seventh with a triple. The next hitter drilled a ground ball right at India, who bobbled it and couldn’t recover in time to record the out. His blunder gave the Tigers runners on ﬁ  rst and third with no outs, and Auburn was able to capitalize with a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y to tie the game. 
“I think it boiled down to defense 
today,” O’Sullivan said. 
Aside from being Auburn’s ﬁ  rst 
sweep of Florida since 1987, it was also Florida’s ﬁ  rst time getting swept in an SEC-opening series since 2009, when UF got rocked at Arkansas. 
O’Sullivan did say he saw some progress, though. Florida’s offense, which has struggled to open the 2017 season, managed to score ﬁ  ve runs in the loss. He’s hoping the offense can continue to produce when the team travels to Deland for a midweek matchup with Stetson on Tuesday night at 6:30. 
“But it is a bit frustrating,” he 
added. “We wanted to get out of here with one win, which we weren’t able to play good enough defense to do.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.or g
BASEBALL,  from pg13O 'Sullivan: 'I think it boiled down to defense '
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kevin O'Sullivan talks to an umpire prior to Florida's win over Miami on Feb. 25 at McKethan Stadium. After UF's loss to Auburn on Saturday, O'Sullivan said he saw his team's offense improve. 
Aleshia Ocasio pop up, Flor-ida began the fourth inning with three straight singles from senior Justine McLean, Reynoso and DeWitt. 
Two batters later, Kvistad 
drew a walk to bring home the second run of the inning.
Kvistad, who drew a walk 
earlier in the game, has now 
reached based in 27 straight 
games.
The Gators continued 
their scoring run with a two-
RBI single by Hoover to bal-
loon the score to 9-0.
The ﬁ  nal run of the game 
was scored in the ﬁ  fth and ﬁ  nal inning off of a sacriﬁ  ce 
ﬂ  y from DeWitt, her ﬁ  fth of 
the season.
Florida had eight hits on 
the day but also produced nine walks, a sign that 
the team knows when it 
shouldn’t swing.
The win also demon-
strated lights-out pitching from both 
Ocasio  and senior Delanie  Gourley.  The two re-corded the ﬁ  fth com-bined no-
hitter in UF softball history in the shutout.
Gourley and Ocasio 
were the ﬁ  rst to do so for 
the Gators since Stephanie 
Brombacher and Erin Sch-
uppert did in 2010.
Four straight Gamecocks 
were retired before Gourley hit Tiara Duffy with a pitch. 
She immediately responded 
by tossing two strikeouts.
Gourley struck out four 
on the day.
Now, Florida will head 
home and have two days of rest before it faces USF 
Wednesday night at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium.
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg13Gourley struck out 
four Gamecocks 
Gourley 
SUNDAY’S TOP 
SOFTBALL PERFORMERS
Jaimie Hoover, 2-for-3, ﬁ  ve RBIs
Sophia Reynoso, 2-for-3, two RBIs, two runs
Aleshia Ocasio, 2-for-3, two runsNicole DeWitt, 1-for-2, two RBIs, two runsJustine McLean, 1-for-1, one runBy Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
At the end of the Schenkel Invi-
tational’s second round, UF coach 
J.C. Deacon said something spe-cial would need to happen for the team to get the job done. With three holes to go, Florida was in a three-way tie for first place. 
By the end of the tournament, 
the Gators were alone on top of the standings.
After the win, Deacon said the 
victory was incredibly rewarding to him, considering the team’s disap-pointing couple of results prior to the Schenkel Invitational.
“This one is different,” he said 
in a release. “We had to come from way back...I am so happy for them. It was an amazing day.”
Florida was able to take home 
its fourth tournament win this sea-son, shooting a combined 18-un-der 846 over its three-day stay in Statesboro, Georgia. It was also the team’s fourth victory in its 32nd trip to the tournament. But what may have been the most interesting thing about the weekend was the fashion in which Florida was able to take the title. 
Prior to the final day, Georgia 
Southern held sole possession of first place with an eight-stroke lead over the third place Gators. Deacon said coming back to win was huge for the team.
“We were eight strokes back 
starting the day, and to be able to come back and win by two,” Dea-con said, “that shows the guys that there’s no lead that’s ever out of our reach. That’s a big thing for us going forward.”
Sam Horsfield maintained his 
hot streak, posting his third con-secutive top-15 finish after shooting under par in all three rounds this weekend. His performance was good enough for sole possession of third place.
Elsewhere for Florida, Ryan Orr 
continued his senior campaign with a top-15 finish. Orr shot a 4-under 68 in the final round to boost him into a tie for 12th place. The per-formance allowed him to move 15 spots up the leaderboard after two rounds of even-par golf.
Freshman Andy Zhang and 
sophomore Gordon Neale were two of five golfers to share 18th place with final scores of 2-under 214. Ryan Celano bounced back from consecutive over-par outings, shooting an even-par 72 for the day. And A.J. Crouch competed as an in-dividual over the weekend, shoot-ing 14 over for the tournament.
As a team, Florida notched 63 
birdies in the tournament, 10 more than any other school in the field. Horsfield led the Gators with 16, in-cluding six during the final round.
“Sam was our rock, and he’s 
been our rock for two years. And he did it again today,” Deacon said. The victory comes after two dis-
appointing finishes — one in Las Vegas and the other in the SunTrust Gator Invitational. But even with their struggles over the past month, Deacon recently received some words of wisdom from a popular Gainesville figure.
“(Former UF athletics director) 
Jeremy Foley told me earlier today: When champions get knocked on their back, they get up and win,” Deacon said. “We have five or six champions on this team who came to the Schenkel this weekend, and they sure showed it today.”
Vanderbilt sophomore Patrick 
Martin won the individual title, meanwhile, with a 12-under 204. It was the first win of his career. 
The Gators will have the week-
end off before they head to Nash-ville, Tennessee, to compete in the Mason Rudolph on March 31, host-ed by Vanderbilt. 
@Justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2017
WHERE UF PLACED 
INDIVIDUALLY 
Player  Place Score
Horsfield	 3	 -9Orr	 	 T-12	 -4Zhang	 	 T-18	 -2Neale	 	 T-18	 -2Celano	 	 T-42	 +6Crouch	(i)	 T-68	 +14
*i denotes player competing as individualWOMEN’S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
After Friday’s match against 
Georgia, the Gators women’s ten-
nis team’s players walked off the 
court with their heads down. As fans left the Ring Tennis Complex, 
they voiced their disbelief. 
“I never thought I’d see the 
day,” one said. 
“Well, we knew it had to hap-
pen eventually,” said another. 
On Friday, Florida lost its first 
home game since 2004, breaking 
the longest active streak in the NCAA and giving the Gators their 
first loss of the season. 
After losing to the Gators 4-1 in 
February’s National Indoor Cham-pionships, Georgia dominated 
Florida on all fronts. As Florida lost the doubles point for only the 
third time this season, Georgia 
continued to command the Gators for the remainder of the match. 
Josie Kuhlman and Belinda 
Woolcock were first off the dou-bles court, winning their match 
6-3. The next two matches ended 
in tiebreaker sets as Georgia won 7-5 on courts one and two. The Bulldogs then got off to 
a quick start in singles as Ellen Perez dominated Woolcock 6-2, 
6-1 and Elena Christofi beat Ingrid 
Neel by the same score to give Georgia a quick 3-0 lead. 
Kuhlman provided Florida 
some relief when she put her team on the board by beating Caroline 
Brinson 6-3, 6-0. Then, in thrill-
ing fashion, Georgia’s Mariana Gould gave the Bulldogs the win 
by beating Kourtney Keegan in 
a contested tiebreaker set to win 6-2, 7-6 (5).
As the Gators were visibly and 
vocally frustrated, coach Roland Thornqvist said the Gators’ lack 
of confidence was the difference 
in the match. 
“We did not play particularly 
well. We certainly didn’t look confident, and that’s the one thing that irks me a little bit,” Thorn-
qvist said. “If we were a little 
weak emotionally today, (Geor-gia) was able to expose it. And 
you’ve got to give them credit. It’s 
not an easy thing to do.”
After Thornqvist said he 
“couldn’t care less” about the end of the streak, the Gators entered Sunday’s match against Tennes-see determined to bounce back. They did just that, sweeping the Volunteers 4-0. 
From the beginning, the Gators 
were dominant. After winning the doubles point 6-0, 6-0, it was clear 
that Florida had regained its con-
fidence. 
In singles, the Gators con-
trolled the match on almost every court. Kuhlman was first to finish, beating Johanna Silva 6-0, 6-2. 
Neel was next off the court after 
dominating Sadie Hammond 6-0, 6-3. Brooke Austin then handed 
Florida the game by defeating 
Gabby Schuck 6-1, 6-3. 
Thornqvist said the team re-
turned to its all-business mindset just hours after the loss to Geor-gia. Practicing Saturday morning, 
he said everyone on the team was 
all in.
“We knew where we were in-
adequate on Friday night, and we were hell bound on changing that,” Thornqvist said. “It started 
yesterday in practice…today we 
were excellent.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.orgUF ‘hell bound on changing’ after devastating loss to Georgia
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coach	Roland	Thornqvist	 looks	on	during	Florida’s	 win	over	
Oklahoma	State	on	Feb.	18	at	the	Ring	Tennis	Complex.	
Horsfield leads Gators men’s golf team to fourth win of season
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
Sam	Horsfield	 hits	a	bunker	shot	during	the	2017	SunTrust	 Gator	Invitational	 at	the	Mark	Bostick	Golf	
Course.	Horsfield	finished	under	par	in	all	three	of	his	rounds	at	this	weekend’s	Schenkel	Invitational.
