We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 140 FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
Brotherhood on UF track team
National champion Eric Futch and 
teammate T J Holmes are like family, pg. 4
Former UF professor lived extraordinary life
He met JFK and was knighted by the King of Spain, pg. 3
UF student organizes dodgeball tournament
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg. 10FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Lisa Scott wants to change UF’s parental-
leave policy.
As soon as she accepted a position at the 
university nearly two years ago, Scott said she 
heard colleagues complain about the limited 
options available to pregnant faculty members.
Upon starting work as an associate profes-
sor in the psychology department, the 40-year-
old — who wasn’t planning on having any 
more children — joined the United Faculty of Florida union in hopes of making the universi-
ty’s policy more accommodating toward other women in the years to come.
In the 2015 UF Faculty and Staff Climate 
Survey, although an exact number was not 
disclosed, “Several respondents expressed 
concern over the way UF handles maternity-related issues.”
The university’s parental-leave policy al-
lows non-union members a one-year window to initiate a six-month period of leave, during which they’ll be paid for six weeks. Those wanting to spend more time with their new-borns and still get paid are also able to accu-mulate paid sick leave and vacation, which Scott said can take years to collect.
Twenty-three percent of the climate sur-
vey’s respondents commented on work-life is-
sues, including child care and maternity leave. 
One respondent wrote “We don’t have mater-nity leave. Plain and simple.” Another wrote “The current parental leave is a joke. UF wants to be a top 5 university? Then have a parental leave that matches that.”
On Jan. 1, after negotiations between the 
United Faculty of Florida’s bargaining unit and UF’s provost’s ofﬁ  ce, UFF members were granted a 12-week paid parental leave. 
Non-union faculty members wouldn’t ben-
eﬁ  t.
Although Scott said she believes the new 
bargaining-unit beneﬁ  t is a step in the right di-rection, it’s just not enough.
“Twelve weeks is still not going to be ef-
fective for faculty members,” she said. “I would’ve loved to have seen a semester-off paid leave. We need to have a clear and con-sistent policy that can be supportive across the 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
On the stage behind Chelsea Han-
dler and Jacob Soboroff was a list of President Donald Trump’s campaign promises, complete with a “reality check.” 
“Don’t bomb Syria,” his promise 
read.
“Bomb Syria,” the reality read. “What do you do?” Soboroff asked. “What are the consequences for a president who doesn’t keep his word like this?”
On Thursday night, Accent Speak-
ers Bureau and UF’s Jewish Student Union hosted Chelsea Handler, a co-median and talk show host. 
They paid her to give a talk titled 
“Chelsea Does Politica” at UF’s Phil-lips Center for the Performing Arts. 
Soboroff, an MSNBC correspon-
dent, moderated the interview. More than 1,600 people came to the free public event, held on the eve of the season-two premiere of Handler’s Netﬂ  ix talk show, “Chelsea.”
Handler and Soboroff talked about 
Trump’s presidency, fake news and the importance of being politically active. Members of the audience also asked questions. Handler and Soboroff were offered a combined $125,500, with $105,500 from Ac-cent and the remaining $20,000 from JSU, according to Alligator archives. 
Soboroff declined the money, per Faculty urge UF change parental-leave policy
Handler talks politics, drugs at UF
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
While UF student Robert Oc-
ampo spends the end of Spring 
determining how he’ll earn credits for his Chinese minor, I-Chun Peir uses the back entrance into her of-ﬁ  ce.
Peir leaves campus as soon as 
possible every day. To use the rest-
room, she’ll walk downstairs. 
She can’t risk running into her 
coworkers. She says it hurts too 
much. 
“When I see their face, I have 
a wound, and it puts salt on my wound,” Peir said. “I don’t want them to see any (of) my sorrows.”
Peir was involved with the UF 
in Chengdu Summer abroad pro-gram for nine years and has been the main director for several years. According to the study abroad website, the price of the trip ranges from about $3,300 to $4,150, not including airfare. Peir said mis-communication surrounding the program led to her removal, and 
after feeling like she was being 
treated unfairly, she resigned last month. 
The program was subsequently 
canceled, leaving students like Oc-ampo, who were registered for the trip, confused. 
“Right now, I don’t want to 
resign,” Peir said. “I was so emo-
tional.”
She said her resignation was in 
anticipation of her being ﬁ  red, but 
she hoped to ﬁ  nish out her job this Spring and go to Chengdu with her students.An email from the then-head of 
the Languages, Literature and Cul-ture department, Ingrid Kleespies, said due to “issues surrounding management of the Chengdu pro-gram,” Peir would be removed from administration. When Peir 
followed up and asked for her to 
appeal the decision, Kleespies said the choice was ﬁ  nal.
Kleespies declined to com-
ment on anything regarding the Chengdu program and Peir. The 
current department chair, Akin-
tunde Akinyemi, also declined to comment.
“She didn’t want to give me a 
second chance,” Peir said. “It’s un-fair to me and my Summer A stu-
dents.”
On March 8, 12 days after Peir 
resigned and Kleespies took her off 
the program, an email was sent out to the 17 students who were reg-istered for the program and had already organized their schedules and were expecting to travel to Chengdu in just a few months.
It said the program would be 
canceled due to “unforeseen cir-cumstances.”
•   •   •
Peir still doesn’t know exactly 
why she was removed.Confusion in canceled 
Chengdu program 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Chelsea Handler speaks at an event hosted by Accent Speakers Bureau and UF’s Jewish Student Union 
on Monday evening. The discussion was moderated by MSNBC correspondent Jacob Soboroff. 
SEE LEAVE,  PAGE4
SEE HANDLER,  PAGE4 SEE CHENGDU,  PAGE4She was paid $125,500CAMPUS
“She didn’t want to give me a 
second chance. It’s unfair to me 
and my Summer A students.”
I-Chun Peir 
UF in Chengdu Summer abroad 
program directorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  84° LOW  58°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
School of Theatre and Dance pres-
ents William Shakespeare’s 
‘King Lear’The UF School of Theatre and Dance is pleased to pres-
ent “King Lear” now through 
Saturday at Constans Theatre. Deception and intrigue are the name of the game in “King Lear,” one of the most famous tragedies of all time. Lear is ready to step down from his throne and sets out to hand over the kingdom evenly to his three 
daughters, but their response is 
anything from what he expects. This Dali-inspired production reimagines Shakespeare’s heart-wrenching tale of family and the struggle for power where chaos and tragedy abound. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF fac-
ulty, UF staff and seniors, and 
$13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
GatorNights: Bon Voyage
Give your summer spirit a kick-start as you make your own 
flip-flops and friendship brace-
lets tonight. Rejuvenate yourself with a custom sugar scrub or grab an appointment for a chair massage. Others will walk the plank if you win casino games, and bring your pool-deck spirit during a limbo competition. Set your sails for the Reitz Union 
Auditorium as you catch the 
8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. show-ing of “John Wick: Chapter 2.” Pride Awareness Month will be hosting “Opulence: A Drag Show” in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students 
with their Gator 1 cards. 
‘Hymns and Heroes from the 
Movies’
Can you imagine your favor-ite epic film without a rousing musical score? Can you imag-ine the final lightsaber duel be-tween Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan 
Kenobi and Darth Maul in “Star 
Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace” without the pulse-pounding beat of the drums, the driving orchestrated energy cou-pled with the “war-cry” lyrics in the old Welsh tongue? It most likely would not be nearly as exhilarating. Join the UF Choral 
Union and the Gainesville 
Master Chorale as they present Hymns and Heroes from the Movies at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $10 to $40 and can be purchased at per-formingarts.ufl.edu. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CLARIFICATION
In an article published April 13, titled  “Swamp Records to hold showcase,” the Alligator report-ed that Twelve’Len was a head-liner, not a featured act. There 
will also be two outdoor stages 
at the event, not one. The infor-mation on the website has since been changed to reflect updates by Swamp Records. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 111 ISSUE 140
FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A 300-pound UF football player was hit 
in the face Thursday by a woman he had 
no interest in bedding, Gainesville Police 
said.Caleb Brantley, 22, was questioned by 
police after 20-year-old Chelsea Marie Aus-
tin, who stands at 5 foot 4 and 110 pounds, told police someone had hit her in the face at about 2:15 a.m., causing a cut on her 
lip, according to an incident report. Aus-
tin’s friend told police Brantley hit Austin.Police had just broken up a fight in a 
crowd of about 25 people in the parking 
lot of UF Plaza in Midtown after bars had 
closed, according to the report. 
Brantley told an officer he had slept 
with one of Austin’s friends but refused to sleep with Austin, according to the report. 
He said Austin hit him in the face, and he 
pushed her away.
Austin later admitted she hit Brantley and said she was disrespected by him.
Brantley did not wish to press charges 
against Austin. No arrests were made.
On UF’s 2016 football roster, Brantley 
is listed as a defensive lineman. Brantley is also in the 2017 NFL draft. He said he wouldn’t press charges against Austin.
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: Former Gators football player struck by woman 
He decided not to press chargesBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
He once received an honor-
ary knighthood from the King of 
Spain. 
A bridge in St. Augustine was 
named in his honor. 
President John F. Kennedy 
shook his hand four days before 
Kennedy was assassinated.
Those who knew Michael Gan-
non look back fondly on his re-
markable life, one that saw him become a priest, pilot and profes-sor. An author, talk show host 
and foreign correspondent. 
A husband and mentor.
It was a nearly nine-decade 
life, one that ended Tuesday morning when the longtime UF 
professor died of natural causes 
at the age of 89.
“His life was kind of like For-
rest Gump,” said Steve Orlando, 
a UF spokesperson and friend of 
Gannon. “I mean, he just did ev-
erything.”
•   •   •
It was 1968 when Gannon 
boarded a plane bound for Viet-
nam.
War was raging, and Gannon 
figured he would spend his sum-mer vacation absorbing the hor-rors of war.
As the war heated up, students 
fearful of the draft would seek ad-
vice from Gannon. Wanting to be 
able to better advise them, Gan-non decided to see what was go-ing on for himself.
To get to Vietnam, Gannon 
applied for a press pass with the Florida Catholic, a newspaper that covers most of Florida. He photographed and interviewed people during the war for pieces 
published in the newspaper and 
the Gainesville Sun. From hos-pital wards to orphanages to the war field, Gannon conducted in-terviews and came to believe the 
war in Vietnam was immoral.
“I think when he came back, 
it was always in his mind that 
he was teaching a lot of students 
who might very well soon be the 
next causalities in the war,” said James Cusick, a curator at the P. K. Yonge Library of Florida His-tory who met Gannon as a gradu-ate student in 1985.
Seeing the war had a large im-
pact on Gannon, Cusick said. He 
took on the de facto role of me-
diating between UF’s administra-tion and students during anti-war protests. 
“He interceded numerous 
times when it seemed like the demonstrations would get violent or where there would be police action against them,” Cusick said.
At one 1972 protest, Gannon 
was hit with a police baton after stopping an officer from throwing tear gas at students. 
During the demonstration, stu-
dents had taken refuge in Krys-tal Hamburger, a restaurant for-merly located where the Chipotle on West University Avenue now 
sits. Gannon feared if an officer 
threw tear gas into the building, it would incite panic and cause the students to crash through the res-taurant’s glass storefront, harm-
ing or killing them. 
He grabbed the officer’s arm 
and told him to stop, and a sec-
ond officer responded by hitting 
Gannon with his baton.
•   •   •
Gannon addressed a crowd in-
side the University Auditorium.
His baritone voice served as 
comfort in the wake of the 9/11 terror attack.
“When he began to speak in 
that deep, booming voice, it was 
amazing,” Orlando said. “It had a calming effect on everybody.”
Gannon’s voice, a practiced, 
radio-smooth tone perfected dur-ing his time as an announcer for the South Carolina Gamecocks, has been preserved in recordings of his history lectures.
Steven Noll, a UF professor 
with the history department, met Gannon as a graduate student in the mid-1980s. He remembers 
Gannon’s “unbelievable” voice.
“Michael Gannon could hold 
an audience still by just reading a 
phonebook because his voice was so amazing,” he said.
Gannon impressed him, Noll 
admitted, adding that he current-ly uses one of Gannon’s books on Florida history to teach his own 
class.
“(He was) somebody who was 
much more worldly, and some-body who doesn’t remind you 
of an academic even though his academic credentials are fairly impeccable,” Noll said. “That’s 
what made him so good, is he 
could talk in both worlds.”
•   •   •
Ask his wife, and she’ll say 
a life as full as his shouldn’t be mourned. 
It should be celebrated.
Haugen said Gannon was al-
ways curious, always busy and 
always dedicated to serving the generations of students he taught over 36 years at UF.
She hopes others remember 
him for that. 
“We are not going to mourn 
a very fine life. A life filled with 
laughter, friends, good works, 
justice,” Genevieve Haugen said. “So we will celebrate his life.”
 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgFormer UF professor, priest celebrated for remarkable life
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gannon, a Catholic priest, presents former President John F. Kennedy with a copy of the oldest written doc-
ument on American record from St. Augustine. Four days after their meeting, Kennedy was assassinated. 
EPILOGUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Gannon, a former UF professor with the history depart-ment, died Tuesday morning at the age of 89. news standards, an MSNBC representative told the Al-
ligator. The full $125,500 honorarium went to Handler, Accent chairman Mike Greenberg later said. Soboroff, a 34-year-old from Los Angeles, was part of MSNBC’s “Road Warriors” group that covered the 2016 presiden-tial election. He has appeared on Handler’s show in the past and the two are friends.
Before the doors opened, a group of about eight 
friends and UF students arrived six and a half hours be-fore Handler took the stage to be one of the first in line, said Lindsay Gottlieb, a member of the group. They all 
wore white T-shirts with iron-on designs reading, “Chel-
sea DOES University of Florida” and brought large cut-outs of Handler’s head. 
They’ve watched Handler’s shows together since 
2009, the 22-year-old said.
“We’re really big fans,” the UF communication sci-
ences and disorders senior said. “She’s very real. She’s no B.S.”
Handler, 42, said she wants to encourage young 
adults to vote and ask questions. 
“I don’t think there’s anything shameful about ask-
ing questions until you understand the concept,” she said.
The quick-witted New Jersey native had no qualms 
discussing her alcohol and drug usage and hatred of Trump.
During the audience-question portion of the talk, 
Alex Orta, 20, a UF business administration junior, 
asked Handler if she would consider running for presi-
dent.
“No, I would never run for office,” she replied. “You 
can’t do drugs.”4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
board.”
Unsupportive parental-leave poli-
cies put women in academia at a 
disadvantage in regard to obtaining 
promotions, tenure and competitive offers, Scott said.
“Men are able to go out easily on 
the market to do that, and women can’t because the policies here don’t put women on a level playing field,” Scott said. “There’s what they call a leaky-pipeline problem, in that wom-
en tend to drop out of academia.”
In a 2016 study published by 
the Institute of Labor Economics, 
three economists found that gender-neutral parental policies adopted by institutions such as large research universities can advance men’s ca-reer paths at the expense of female colleagues.
“Family leave policies that allow 
women to take short periods of time off do not adequately account for the fact that the productivity loss asso-ciated with starting a family persists over a much longer time horizon than a few weeks surrounding child-birth,” the authors wrote. “Having children may therefore reduce the 
probability that women are promot-
ed because early productivity falls despite the existence of short family leave programs.”
UF Human Resources director 
Stewart King said the university’s parental-leave policy is often misun-derstood, and that other universities aren’t doing much better.
The University of South Florida’s 
policy allows all faculty members to take an entire semester, 19.5 weeks, 
of paid leave. However, if a faculty 
member permanently leaves the uni-versity soon after, they must forfeit their accumulated sick and vacation time.
At Florida State University, 
union-affiliated faculty members are eligible to take 12 weeks of paid leave after the birth of a child, simi-lar to UF’s policy.
Under the Family and Medical 
Leave Act of 1993, employers with 50 employees or more must give workers 12 weeks of unpaid leave following childbirth or the adoption 
of a child. However, there is no legal 
obligation to provide additional pay-ment.
King said although no formal 
complaints about the policy have been lodged with the HR department or provost’s office, the university’s administration is looking at different options to improve the environment 
for new parents at UF.
“I would encourage young wom-
en wanting to have a child or family 
to move forward with her life,” King said. “We recognize that it’s about work-life balance, so we’re doing all different types of things at the Uni-versity of Florida to make sure that employees can take advantages of 
benefits.”
King said UF administrators are 
considering the possibility of creat-
ing a 12-week paid leave policy for the entire university, not just for those who are a part of the union.
“It is tough given the fact that women are the ones who do the physical labor and all the different things that are required to have a child,” King said. “So all the more 
reason to look at the issue, look at 
the policy.”
Lori Knackstedt had her second 
child while working as an assistant psychology professor. To adjust, she took an entire Fall semester off.
The following Spring, Knackstedt 
doubled her workload to make up for lost paychecks. As a new mother, 
she said it was a less-than-ideal op-
tion.
Deepthi Varma, an assistant pro-
fessor in UF’s epidemiology depart-ment, said women — especially first-time mothers — need about six months after the birth of a child to bond with their baby and learn new skills like breastfeeding.
“These skills become really diffi-
cult to learn and master, and that’s why you need way more time to 
be able to spend at home with your 
baby,” she said.
Knackstedt, a non-union mem-
ber, said the 12-week leave for those who are eligible still doesn’t provide full coverage, especially if a wom-an’s due date falls in the middle of the semester.
Although Knackstedt was eventu-
ally able to make up for lost time, her increased workload took away from the time she would otherwise have 
spent conducting research, one of 
the most important components for advancing her career in academia.
UF isn’t worse off than other 
universities in terms of their policy, Knackstedt said. Instead, she thinks poor parental-leave options for fe-males in academia are a nationwide problem. Universities in general have a tendency to not prioritize women’s issues, she said.
“What administrators might not 
realize is that these policies that are on the books are really affect-ing women’s choices to have kids,” Knackstedt said. 
Retired UF sociology professor 
John Scanzoni said the university is obviously saving money by only granting six weeks of paid leave to those outside the union.
Scanzoni, who taught classes on 
gender relationships and families at UF, said he thinks the university’s administration just doesn’t consider parental-leave policies to be a criti-cal issue.
“I don’t know why UF is drag-
ging its heels on this,” Scanzoni said. “They’re always talking about 
making UF a top-10 school, and my 
hunch is — if our leave is only six weeks — we’ll fall far behind.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgLEAVE,  from pg.1Some say the policy puts 
women at a disadvantage
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Chelsea Handler and Jacob Soboroff talk in the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Mon-day evening. Handler emphasized that people should vote and ask questions.
She said she suspects it’s be-
cause of two decisions she made 
for the program, but defends them as being fair.
The first was letting her hus-
band, Jih-Kwon Peir, be hired as a teaching assistant for the Summer program. Jih-Kwon, a UF computer and information science and engi-neering associate professor, was unofficially helping Peir with the Chengdu program from the begin-ning, she said. 
Peir said when she mentioned 
the extent of his role to officials in the International Center, Susanne Hill, the executive director, said she would be happy to pay him.
When Peir was removed from 
the program, her husband was as well.
“We don’t really want to be any 
trouble, but we feel it’s unfair,” Jih-
Kwon Peir said.
Hill also declined to comment. 
•   •   •
Before both she and her hus-
band were removed from the pro-
gram, Peir said she was called into a meeting about textbooks. Instead, the discussion turned to her deci-
sions with Chengdu. 
“Every person just point(ed) to 
me,” she said. “’Why you put your 
husband,’ I say, I didn’t do that, UFIC initialed that.”
She said her removal also could 
involve confusion surrounding the trip’s budget, which she organizes. Peir said she thought the budget 
had enough money to prevent the 
cost of the trip being raised by $300 a student. 
In an email to the department, 
Hill said $4,000 was removed from the budget after Peir looked at it. Before Peir could see the email and reply that there was a misunder-standing, both Kleespies and an-
other professor had already replied 
with confusion.
Peir sent a follow-up email 
saying that the budget had been enough to cover everything, in-cluding a teaching assistant for the department that others were con-cerned about. 
“I don’t know if she misunder-
stood,” Peir said. “That’s why I tried to clear everything.”
She said she thought the email 
would solve the confusion, but then Kleespies emailed her asking to meet regarding “her status.” 
Peir said she jumped to the 
worst conclusion, thinking of the last meeting where she felt am-
bushed.  
So instead of attending, Peir sub-
mitted her resignation but asked to 
remain for the Summer’s Chengdu program. 
“My health condition and the re-
cent events have really taken a toll this year,” Peir wrote in her resig-nation letter. “I feel very tired, un-
trusted and unappreciated.”
After being told she wouldn’t 
be directing the Chengdu program, 
Peir tried to appeal. Kleespies said the decision was final, and Hill said the decision was up to the depart-ment.
“I emailed everybody, but it 
looks like nobody listened to that,” 
Peir said. “I think they already 
made a decision at the beginning to just take me off.”•   •   •
Robert Ocampo, a 19-year-old 
UF mathematics sophomore, set aside money designated for rent to fund his trip to Chengdu.
He worked more hours at the 
O’Connell Center to raise the mon-ey for the program. 
Now, Ocampo won’t have to 
spend the money. But he’ll have to find a way to earn the class credits. 
“I kind of had this plan in mind 
of how I was going to go about the Chinese minor, and it just sort of got chopped up a little bit,” he said. 
Ocampo said he’s unable to af-
ford other programs to China, even with scholarships UF is offering for those who were registered for Chengdu.
Ocampo said the only explana-
tion he heard regarding the trip’s cancellation was budget issues. 
“I would assume that kind of 
thing is done and taken care of be-fore students have finished apply-ing for the program,” he said.
•   •   •
Peir doesn’t know what’s next.She said she’ll miss teaching 
her students, many of whom she viewed as her children. 
Photos of her with students in 
Chengdu sit on her office’s win-dowsill. In a few days, she’ll pack up the pictures, signed by each stu-dent, and leave.
“In case my innocence could be 
proved as innocent, then I will feel good,” she said. “Because now I feel they treat me not fair, and they treat my students not fair.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgCHENGDU,  from pg.1Peir’s husband was also removed HANDLER,  from pg.1She encouraged political involvement
“It is tough given the fact that 
women are the ones who do 
the physical labor and all 
the different things that are 
required to have a child.”
Stewart King
UF Human Resource DirectorFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. forces in Af-
ghanistan on Thursday struck an Islamic State 
tunnel complex in eastern Afghanistan with “the mother of all bombs,” the largest non-nu-clear weapon ever used in combat by the U.S. 
military, Pentagon ofﬁ  cials said.
The bomb, known ofﬁ  cially as a GBU-43B, 
or massive ordnance air blast weapon, un-
leashes 11 tons of explosives. When it was developed in the early 2000s, the Pentagon did a formal review of legal justiﬁ  cation for its combat use.
The Pentagon said it had no early estimate 
of deaths or damage caused by its attack, 
which President Donald Trump called a “very, 
very successful mission.”
The U.S. military headquarters in Kabul 
said in a statement that the bomb was dropped at 7:32 p.m. local time Thursday on a tunnel complex in Achin district of Nangarhar prov-ince, where the Afghan afﬁ  liate of the Islamic State group has been operating. The target was close to the Pakistani border.
The U.S. estimates 600 to 800 IS ﬁ  ghters are 
present in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. The U.S. has concentrated heavily on combat-ting them while also supporting Afghan forc-es battling the Taliban. Just last week a U.S. 
Army Special Forces soldier, Staff Sgt. Mark R. 
De Alencar, 37, of Edgewood, Maryland, was killed in action in Nangarhar.
The MOAB is a custom-made Air Force 
weapon that has been in the arsenal for more than a decade but never used on the battle-ﬁ  eld, although it was available throughout the Iraq war. It is designed to hit softer targets such as surface facilities, tunnel entrances and troop 
concentrations. It is pushed out the rear of the 
launching aircraft, guided to its target by GPS and slowed by a parachute.
A separate non-nuclear weapon known as the Massive Ordnance Penetrator, or MOP, which is larger in its physical dimensions but carries a smaller load of conventional explo-sives, is designed to take out deeply buried targets like reinforced bunkers. The MOP has never been used in combat.
In its 2003 review of the legality of using the 
MOAB, the Pentagon concluded that it could not be called an indiscriminate killer under the 
Law of Armed Conﬂ  ict.
“Although the MOAB weapon leaves a 
large footprint, it is discriminate and requires 
a deliberate launching toward the target,” the review said. It added: “It is expected that the weapon will have a substantial psychological effect on those who witness its use.”
Adam Stump, a Pentagon spokesman, said 
the bomb was dropped from a U.S. MC-130 
special operations transport. He said the bomb 
had been brought to Afghanistan “some time ago” for potential use.
Army Gen. John W. Nicholson, command-er of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, said in a writ-ten statement that the strike was designed to minimize the risk to Afghan and U.S. forces conducting clearing operations in the Achin area “while maximizing the destruction” of IS ﬁ  ghters and facilities. He said IS has been us-ing improvised explosive devices, bunkers and tunnels to strengthen its defenses.
Ismail Shinwari, the governor of Achin 
district, said the U.S. attack was carried out in a remote mountainous area with no civil-ian homes nearby and that there had been no reports of injured civilians. He said there has been heavy ﬁ  ghting in the area in recent weeks between Afghan forces and IS militants.
White House spokesman Sean Spicer said 
IS ﬁ  ghters had used the tunnels and caves in Achin to maneuver freely.
“The United States takes the ﬁ  ght against 
ISIS very seriously and in order to defeat the group we must deny them operational space, which we did,” Spicer said.
US hit Islamic State with largest non-nuclear bomb ever used WORLDThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnThe world swarms around us, and yet we tightly clutch 
our Study Edge packets and scrounge for seats in Library 
West, focused on the ﬁ  nish line that we see so clearly. For 
some of us, this is the ﬁ  nal countdown — just a few more 
days until we must face the real world and all it holds, good and bad. For others, this is just another push to the ﬁ  nish line before we start the next lap. Either way, this is 
the hardest part of the race. It’s bittersweet, though, as we 
present to you this semester’s ﬁ  nal…
Darts & Laurels
Gainesville has been blessed by the dessert gods this 
week with both Thai-style ice cream store, Mr. Cool Ice Cream, and raw cookie dough spot, Do-Lish, opening up. It 
comes at a needed time during ﬁ  nals week, when we’re al-
ready turning to Gainesville classics such as Midnight Cook-ies, Karma Cream and Sweet Dreams Ice Cream in order to give our brains an extra kick. Gosh, have you ever noticed 
the quality of desserts in Gainesville? Sure, we have those 
typical chains like Cold Stone Creamery and the inﬂ  ux of frozen yogurt places, but there’s something so heartfelt and touching about the dessert made at our local favorites. We want to recognize this, so a laurel goes to the Gainesville 
dessert scene. Thank you for the much-needed calories and 
sugar kick. Those graduating will reminisce fondly. 
It’s been a bad month or so for United Airlines. First, there 
was the dress code issue, when two girls were turned away 
for wearing leggings. There was a split in reaction — some 
arguing that girls should have the right to wear leggings, while others pointing out that United was simply following a company dress code policy. And then, of course, a passenger was literally dragged off the aircraft to accommodate airline 
staff members. The reaction to that has been pretty univer-
sal: It was a horrible move. Some shift the blame to the air-port security, some directly blame United. Now, United was already having a bad month. To add to all of that, it looks 
like last week a scorpion stung one of their passengers on a 
ﬂ  ight to Calgary. In weak defense of United, this one isn’t entirely their fault, though of course they could’ve checked the overhead compartments more clearly. It’s quite evident that United needs to get it together. We’re throwing a dart 
their way. Good luck, PR team. 
Arturo Di Modica, or as you might know him “the guy 
who made that bull sculpture in New York City,” is upset at the statue of a little girl placed in front of the bull. The Fear-
less Girl sculpture was installed a day before International 
Women’s Day. It was set to be taken down April 2 but re-mained up due to widespread interest. Di Modica’s lawyer, Norman Siegel, is arguing that the statue infringes upon Di Modica’s rights and distorts his message and that the Fear-
less Girl’s creator, Kristen Visbal, should have asked for  
and received Di Modica’s permission before the instillation. Which would kind of be a valid argument if the Charging Bull sculpture had not been installed without permission and 
kept by the demand of the people. The Associated Press re-
ported that Di Monica installed the bronze bull “as a symbol of America’s ﬁ  nancial resilience” following the 1987 stock market crash. A dart to Di Modica, who bases his argument 
on hypocritical claims, which, if you ask us, is a load of bull. 
And lastly, we’d like to present a laurel to our graduat-
ing Gator class. Cliché, perhaps, but we here at the Alliga-tor would like to send you off in style. Move forward boldly, graduates. Do good things in the world. Make us proud.Jared Kushner: the president’s puppet master
His name is Jared Kushner, and you 
probably have never heard of him. If you have, then it is only for being the husband of one of the most inﬂ  uential women in the world at the moment: 
Ivanka Trump. But what many do not know about Jared Kushner is just how signiﬁ  cant a role he currently has in the White House, and as he is a man of very few words, this has been a cause of concern. Since long be-fore Election Day, Kushner could be found lurking in the shadows of President Donald Trump as he made his cantankerous, political-landscape-altering, scorched-earth trek through America. The Trump cam-
paign might have had a revolving door of campaign 
managers and aides, but it was the reserved Mr. Kush-ner who, as we are now learning, led Trump to the presidency.
The 36-year-old Harvard graduate has had quite the 
business career of his own — from buying and running the The New York Observer to acquiring 666 Fifth Av-enue for $1.8 billion, the highest price ever paid for a single ofﬁ  ce building in the U.S., when he was just 
26. The soft-spoken Kushner has maneuvered his way 
through the real estate landscape with the same tenacity and disregard for risk as his father-in-law. But what is more fascinating is that Kushner has often been called, by those close to or within the campaign and White House, the individual whom Trump trusts the most. 
Since Trump took ofﬁ  ce, Kushner has been quietly 
carrying out some critical tasks for the president. The criticisms regarding nepotism are one thing, but there 
is also some concern over whether Kushner is qualiﬁ  ed 
for some of these jobs. Just this month, Kushner was in Baghdad meeting with the prime minister of Iraq on behalf of the U.S., a role usually ﬁ  rst taken by secre-tary of state or a military general. The two have been discussing military action and policy in the Middle East and the ongoing ﬁ  ght against the Islamic State group. Benjamin Rhodes, a former adviser to President Obama, pointed out this unconventionality, tweeting “Kushner in Iraq before the National Security Advisor or Secretary of State. Totally normal.” 
The same argument Kushner critics use 
to invalidate his current role in government 
is starkly similar to that used by Trump crit-
ics during the campaign and election: He has no experience in politics or (insert area/ﬁ  eld here), so surely he is not capable of doing it at the highest level. 
Everyone, even your favorite career politi-
cians, had to start somewhere, and I am conﬁ  dent that Kushner has substantially more deal-making skills and political savvy than most in Washington. If 2016 told us 
anything, it’s that America is sick of the word “politi-
cian” being a lifelong career title. 
Arguably the most important task a President (or 
any leader of this country) has is making deals that fur-ther the interests of the U.S. This is not very different from what business leaders must do. The president just serves the interests of the U.S. instead of a company. As long as they have experts surrounding and advis-ing them, if someone has the deal-making talent and 
the overall interests of America in mind, then I don’t 
care how much experience in Washington they have. We simply need better deals.
If President Trump succeeds in the Oval Ofﬁ  ce, he 
will prove that we don’t have to have lifelong, Wash-ington-bred politicians running the country, but we can instead excel with intelligent leadership and tact. 
It was Kushner who got Trump into the presidency. 
He was the sturdy rock that would reel Trump in af-
ter every controversial or outrageous statement, and he 
still plays a major role in pulling Trump toward safer, more moderate positions. Kushner took charge of the Trump campaign’s digital, online and social media pres-ence and was paramount in crafting Trump’s overall strategy. And whether you liked the result, it worked. 
Andrew Hall is a UF management junior. His col-
umn appears on Fridays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7 
The U.S. has seen a boom 
in feminism lately, some-thing that I, a longtime 
nasty woman, should be 
elated about. However, 
and much to my own dismay, I’ve come to realize this new wave of 
feminism is nothing to be excited 
about.
The election of President Don-
ald Trump posed no small threat to women. His policies promised 
the abolishment of many of our 
rights and suggested a bleak fu-ture for equality in America.
Many people devastated after 
Nov. 8 found solace in marches, protests and other efforts at re-sistance. Women began proudly dubbing themselves “nasty wom-en” and proclaiming their desire 
to “smash the patriarchy.” At the 
time, these seemed like valiant attempts to preserve women’s rights, but the support faded quickly.
After the fanfare of the march-
es and social media campaigns came to an end, newcomers to the movement suddenly became less interested in the feminist agenda. 
People realized the effort it takes 
to constantly resist the patriarchy and advocate for gender equality, and feminism became like any other trend in modern society: It 
had its peak, and it had its down-
fall.
Although the movement grew 
in size overall, it has begun to 
shrink in substance.
Somewhere along the way, 
people seem to have forgotten 
the true meaning of feminism. These new feminists aren’t put-
ting in the work to further the 
feminist agenda. They are under the illusion that donning a pink pussy hat and decorating their laptop with a “nevertheless, she persisted” sticker is somehow protecting our rights.
I recognize that, of those who 
are new to the feminist move-ment, many are actively working to preserve women’s rights and fighting for the future that we 
need. The efforts of these femi-
nists are commendable, and I do not want to understate their im-pact.It seems that commercialized 
feminism is beginning to replace the activism we really need. Post-
ing a Facebook status has re-
placed lobbying for bills that will protect women. Wearing a button on your backpack that says you 
are “pro-choice” has replaced vol-
unteering at domestic abuse shel-ters or Planned Parenthood clin-ics. Wearing a T-shirt that says you believe a woman’s place is 
in the house and senate makes it 
okay to sit silently in class while a professor disrespects a female classmate.
In an age controlled by social 
media, feminism has become the next trendy thing to have on your Instagram feed and the newest sassy phrase to retweet, but we 
risk losing sight of the importance 
of real action. 
Don’t get me wrong, I would much rather have a world filled with passive feminists than a world filled with active misogy-
nists, but that doesn’t mean we 
should be satisfied with what feminism has become.
I want to urge all so-called 
feminists to rethink their efforts. Are you making a difference? Have you done anything that will help the women of America and the women of the world, even on 
a small scale? If the answer is no, 
if you have read this and thought to yourself “I might be the slug-gish feminist this girl is describ-
ing,” I’d like to suggest that you 
reevaluate your feminist efforts and become a part of what we need — an active feminist com-munity.
Abigail Miller is a UF jour-
nalism sophomore. Her column appears on Fridays.
I'm disappointed with (some) of the passive forms of new-age feminismColumn
Letter to the Editor Letter to the Editor
Advice from a former  Alligator 
reader
Who reads the editorials in The Alliga-
tor? 
I do. Or, at least, I did. 
A free campus newspaper has a unique 
opportunity not available to ma-
jor outlets. The writers of the Alligator are (or should be) be-
holden to no one, except their 
audience. 
The Alligator is funded in 
part, I assume, by subsidies from UF or associated student organi-
zations. 
Yes, there are ads in every pa-
per, but few are from major corporations. 
So there should be little worry over los-
ing advertisers. Yet the editorials are often 
bland, middle-of-the-road noise. If you want life advice, then read Dear Abby. 
More importantly, if you want to give 
life advice, then provide reasons why your 
advice is valid. Editorial pieces should not be so agreeable. In fact, I suggest that op-
eds be divisive.
The Alligator had an editorial writer 
about a year ago named Michael Beato who wrote largely on matters of interest to conservative students. 
I abhorred 99 percent of Beato’s writ-
ings, but my roommates and I read his editorial each week to a discuss the reasons for our beliefs. 
I am not suggesting that the 
Alligator needs more diverse viewpoints; I am saying that the writers need to take a firm 
stand on issues more often. 
Writing should evoke a re-
sponse other than “Mhm.” 
Not a shock response, but one that con-
tributes to the moral, philosophical, edu-cational and, yes, even political discourse 
that should be taking place on this cam-pus. 
Write something worth discussing in a 
classroom.
Kissel Goldman
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
In response to satirical sports 
column
I am the son of a PGA professional and 
would like to offer a rebuttal to the Mon-
day Matters sports column regarding the 
golf industry. 
The article is, unsurprisingly, lacking 
statistical evidence of wan-
ing golf interest, probably 
because there isn’t any. First, 
the article claims, “Nobody really wants to watch golf.” 
In fact, the PGA Tour re-
ported a 22-percent increase 
in viewership in 2016. Sec-
ond, the article claims that golf has a difficult “learning curve.” The Professional Golfers' Associ-
ation of America has instituted many new 
initiatives to make the game easier for be-ginners, including the Tee It Up program. 
While we’re at it, let’s talk about this 
difficult game’s popularity. The article 
calls golf the sport for “out-of-shape old 
guys.” Interestingly, the PGA says 
2.2 million people tried golf for 
the first time last year and 73 
percent of them played again, and again and again. Now, the money.
Yes, golf is a big business 
worth about $70 billion, but it also has an annual charitable 
giving of $4 billion. And by the way the average price of a round of golf: $36. 
This article was an attempt at a hot 
take, one that was so poorly researched that even those who don’t golf could rec-ognize it as click-bait.
Chris Lynch“This article was 
an attempt at a hot 
take.”
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Monday, April 17, from 
9:00 a.m to 2:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO 
FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Staff Writers, Editors, 
Copy Editors, Staff Photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
THE ALLIGATOR HAS MOVED
Visit us at either location!
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
Below, Jamie Westfall, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering sophomore, and Peter Ramon, 
a 23-year-old UF chemical engineering senior, juggle on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday afternoon. Both are members of a student juggling club called Objects in Motion.
BRACING FOR FINALS WEEK
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Roman Zabalatae, a 19-year-old UF economics freshman, spins cotton candy at the UF Business Administration College Council Spring Carnival on Thursday. 
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
10   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
3rd Annual Garden Show and Spring Festival
May 6th 9:30 am - 5:00 pm, May 7th 9:30 am - 4:00 pm
Adults: $8, Children (6-13): $4, Children under 6: Free
4990 Northeast 180th Avenue, Williston, FL 32696Cedar Lakes Woods & Gardens Presents
www.cedarlakeswoodsandgarden.com 352.529.0055
By T aylor Wilson 
Alligator Contributing Writer
With ﬁ  nals week looming, stressed-out 
college kids can seek catharsis in pegging 
one another with balls during an inaugural 
dodgeball tournament on campus. 
The ﬁ  rst annual campus dodgeball tour-
nament, hosted by UF Housing, will take place today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Bro-ward basketball courts. A free barbecue dur-
ing the event will start at about 5 p.m., said 
Anthony Temeliescu, a resident assistant in Broward Hall who created the tournament. 
The event is free for any UF students, and 
the winning team will receive a prize. Par-ticipants can enter individually or as a group 
with eight to 10 people per team, according 
to the event website.
“It kind of brought me back to my days in summer camp,” the UF industrial and sys-tems engineering sophomore said. “Dodge-ball is kind of like a friendly sport that brings 
a lot of people together.” 
Temeliescu, 20, said he worked with 
residence hall area coordinators, the Student Advisory Board, RecSports and the Inter-
Residence Hall Association to coordinate the event. So far, about 60 people have regis-
tered, but he said he expects about 100 to 
attend. 
Lauren Gutierrez, a UF family, youth 
and community sciences freshman, said the event caught her attention because she used to play in dodgeball tournaments in high 
school. She said she used Facebook to ﬁ  nd a 
group to register with. 
“Since it’s easy for everyone to play, it’s 
very inclusive but at the same time it’s just a lot of fun,” the 19-year-old said. 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua County man’s chicken-and-
vodka dinner was interrupted Wednesday 
night — by the woman whose house he broke into.
Ronald Gregory Wesly, 34, was arrested 
after entering the Archer, Florida, home, re-moving a chicken from the woman’s refriger-ator and frying the poultry while drinking her 
Smirnoff vodka, according to an arrest report.
 He broke into the home, in the 1000 block 
of SW 183rd Ave., after the woman left for 
work, according to the report.
When she returned at about 9 p.m., she 
found him, kicked him out and called the cops, according to the report.
The woman told deputies with the Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce that she last saw 
Wesly walking west on Southwest 183rd Av-
enue.
Upon arriving to the scene, deputies found fresh footprints in the sand road heading 
west, and a K-9 unit was deployed to locate 
Wesly.
Wesly was found standing on Southwest 
178th Terrace, but did not comply with a dep-
uty’s verbal commands to 
get on the ground, accord-ing to the report. Rous, the K-9 unit, then “apprehend-ed” Wesly on his left arm.
Paramedics provided 
Wesly with medical treat-ment before he was taken to the Alachua County Jail.
Wesly had two prior 
convictions of theft in April 2014 in Levy County, which makes this theft charge a felo-ny, according to the report.
Police arrested Wesly on charges of resist-
ing an ofﬁ  cer, burglary and petty theft. He was released from jail on his own recogni-zance Thursday afternoon.
Wesly could not be reached for comment.By Jacqueline Disla 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Horses, dogs and a two-legged pig 
named Chris P. Bacon  will greet visitors 
at the UF College of Veterinary Medicine’s 
open house on Saturday.
The open house, which has been held 
for at least 35 years, will be at the col-
lege’s large and small animal hospitals at 
2015 SW 16th Ave. from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 
said Sarah Carey, the college’s director of public relations. 
The event is free to the public and will 
allow guests to learn about services of-
fered by the college.
“It’s an opportunity for people to kind 
of see really what we’re about behind the 
scenes,” Carey said. 
The event will include tours of the col-lege and demonstrations involving dogs and horses, she said. Chris P. Bacon, a pig 
born without hind legs who moves around 
with a wheeled harness made by a doctor at the hospital, will also make an appear-ance. 
Students interested in veterinary school 
can attend pre-veterinary school advisory sessions and interact with current stu-dents, she said.
Children at the event can participate in 
a teddy bear clinic, where they can bring damaged stuffed animals for repair.
Alisha Kahn, a 19-year-old animal sci-
ences freshman, said she plans to attend 
the event to tour the hospitals and learn 
about her future career. 
“I will be able to compare it to other 
colleges when it is time to apply to vet school,” she said. Resident assistant organizes 
dodgeball tournament at UF
ACSO: Woman ﬁ  nds burglar frying chicken in her homeUF College of Veterinary Medicine hosts open house
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
WALKING ALONG 
A man walks through the breezeway of Marston Science Library on Thursday.
Wesly
FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF
● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      5-9-17-16-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands & Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    4-18-17-7-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
2BR/2.5BA Furnished Townhouse for Rent Starting August 11 year lease, $950/mo. plus utilities. Off street parking. Small pet OK.Call Ben at 305-982-7218     4-19-17-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/
PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!
Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray.
Odorless, Long Lasting.
Available: Hardware Stores,
The Home Depot, homedepot.com.
Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!      4-14-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edSun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design 
using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail-able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305       4-14-1-16Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles.
Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL con-
nection.     4-14-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Tablet input
5 Stick (on)
10 Groovy
13 “The Quiet Man”
co-star
15 Take in, maybe16 Mauna __
17 Insensitive
zealot?
19 Wine bottle figs.
20 Asian capital21 Where Gauguin
painted “WomanWith a Flower”
23 Lays to rest26 Eye parts27 Gung-ho28 Concurrent with29 Poetic praise30 Like Mandarin
Chinese,linguistically
32 ’80s-’90s slugger
Fielder
35 Popular wine
region
37 Summer Triangle
twinkler
39 All there40 View
42 Get rid of
44 Rotation meas.
45 Downgrade,
maybe
47 Tot’s indigestion
area
49 Grows
periodically
51 Sad, on the
Seine
52 Sweater wool53 Rodeo critter55 Item under a top56 Reprobate’s
regularexpense?
61 Funny pair?62 Like Mexico’s
Pyramid of theMagician
63 Part of UTEP64 Whiskey option65 Rested
66 Casual refusal ...
and, anotherway, a hint to this puzzle’s four longestanswersDOWN
1 Bashful comrade?
2 “I thought so!”
3 1860s White
House boy
4 Tell, memorably5 Part of UTEP
6 Fronton game
word
7 Kind of deviation:
Abbr.
8 Wobble9 Unpredictable
10 Golf course
equipment of thefuture?
11 Big artery12 Rationale14 Genesis mount18 Like wild horses22 Duncan of baking
fame
23 Shackles
24 Clay-court legend
25 What many
golfers regularlyengage in?
26 Yardstick28 Reel, for one31 Fledgling
launching spots
33 Feedback34 “I wanna try!”36 End of __38 Frying
preparation
41 Self-evident
actualities
43 Least spoiled46 Ham’s accessory48 “The Queen”
(2006) star
49 Color in “America
the Beautiful”50 Like many bar
jokes
53 Blow a fuse54 Canvas shelter57 Actress Carrie
who was marriedto Dick Cavett
58 Skeletal opening?59 Toddler’s
downtime
60 Japanese market
letters
By Mark McClain©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/14/1704/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, April 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
18 Personals 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida-Vanderbilt baseball game runs late
The Gators led the Commodores 10-6 at press time, which was the bot-
tom of the ninth inning. For full coverage of the game, head to alligator.org/sports. National champion hurdler Eric 
Futch has a brotherly bond with one of his teammates. Read the story, pg. 4.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
After a three-year drought of not 
seeing one of its players selected in the 
WNBA draft, the Florida women’s bas-ketball team has once again sent a player to the pros.
Senior forward Ronni Williams was 
picked 22nd overall by the Indiana Fe-ver on Thursday night to become the ﬁ  rst 
Gator drafted since Indiana took forward 
Jennifer George in 2013.
Williams is coming off a dynamic ﬁ  nal 
season at UF that saw her lead the SEC 
in scoring at 19.2 points per game while also averaging 7.8 rebounds and shoot-
ing 53.8 percent from the ﬁ  eld.
The Daytona Beach, Florida, native is 
one of only nine players in program his-
tory to register at least 1,400 points and 800 rebounds in her career and is 10th  all-time in ﬁ  eld goals made at Florida with 596.
Following Williams’ selection on 
Thursday, 18 different Gators have heard their names called on draft night since 
the WNBA was founded in 1997.
Only three UF players have ever been 
selected in the ﬁ  rst round, with forward 
Murriel Page picked third overall by Washington in 1998, forward DeLisha Milton-Jones picked fourth overall by Los Angeles in 1999 and center Vanessa Hayden picked seventh overall by Minnesota in 2004.
As a second-round draft choice, Wil-
liams heads to an Indiana team that went 17-17 in 2016 and fell to the Phoenix Mercury in the ﬁ  rst round of the WNBA playoffs.
The former Gator appears to be a good 
ﬁ  t with the Fever, who are looking for a forward with scoring ability to replace the recently retired Tamika Catchings.
Indiana’s regular season begins 
exactly one month from today, with a road matchup against the Seattle Storm 
scheduled for May 14 at 7 p.m.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org  Williams taken 22nd in WNBA Draft
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
During Sunday’s match against 
Mississippi State, coach Roland 
Thornqvist walked up to senior 
Kourtney Keegan to talk with her 
about her singles match.
“On a scale of one to 10, how are you feeling the ball?” he asked.
“Minus one,” Keegan replied.Despite struggling throughout 
the match, Keegan still found 
a way to win. She was the last 
Gator off the court after beating the Bulldogs’ Khrystyna Vozniak 7-6 (3), 6-4, in what was a grind-it-out kind of day for the Gators. However, this is exactly what Thornqvist wanted to see in his team.
“There’s going to be plenty of 
times when your knees are shak-ing and you’re not feeling the ball and pressure’s cooking and you’ve got to ﬁ  nd a way to win,” he said. “The mental fortitude to do it like Kourtney did today, that’s better to me than if you just clean the clocks because you’re playing at the top of your game.”
With the end of the regular 
season coming on Sunday and the postseason looming ahead, Thornqvist says this mental toughness is exactly what the Gators will need to thrive in May.
“Looking forward, I know it’s 
going to be really tough, the train-ing,” senior Belinda Woolcock 
said. “At the same time, I’m su-
per excited to see how much we can really improve in those two 
 Gators relying on mental toughness to round out regular seasonThe Miami Heat’s 2016-17 season came to an 
abrupt end on Wednesday night.
Needing a win in game No. 82 and a loss 
by either the Chicago Bulls or the Indiana 
Pacers, the Heat did their part.
Miami used a complete effort to defeat the 
Washington Wizards 110-102 in American Airlines 
Arena.
But the Bulls and Pacers didn’t do their parts.
Chicago defeated a depleted Brooklyn Nets 
squad 112-73, and Indiana took down the Atlanta 
Hawks 104-86, ensuring the Heat would come up one game shy of making the 2017 NBA Playoffs. 
However, despite missing the playoffs for the 
second time in three years, I believe Miami can 
still be proud of what accomplished this season.
After starting the season 11-30, the Heat com-
pleted one of the greatest turnarounds in NBA his-
tory, finishing the year at 41-41 with the win over 
the Wizards. 
It was their fourth team in franchise history to 
win 30 games in the second half of the season, and 
only the Golden State Warriors had a better record than Miami after Jan. 14.
Prior to the Heat’s 19-game march back to .500, 
no team in league history had rallied from more than 12 games under .500 to finish even or better.
Miami would have been the first team to make Despite missing the 
playoﬀ  s, the Miami 
Heat can still be 
proud of their seasonHERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 16SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams attempts a layup during Florida's game against Ole Miss on 
Feb. 6 in the O'Connell Center. 
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994
WOMEN'S TENNISFRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
UF enters its ﬁ  nal weekend of the regular 
season with a lot to play for. 
The No. 16 Gators (14-8, 7-3 SEC) are clos-
ing in on multiple postseason advantages. 
If they ﬁ  nish within the top four of the 
SEC, they’ll secure a ﬁ  rst-round bye in the 
SEC Tournament. If they ﬁ  nish within the 
top 16 nationally, they’ll host their ﬁ  rst two 
NCAA tournament matches. 
Florida currently sits at fourth in its con-
ference and 16th nationally. But right there with UF is upcoming opponent, Mississippi State. 
The No. 17 Bulldogs (17-5, 8-2 SEC) are 
also vying for the same postseason advan-tages, meaning there’s a lot to play for at the Ring Tennis Complex tonight. 
“Both teams realize that there’s a lot rid-
ing on (the match),” coach Bryan Shelton said. “Two teams are going to come out there ready to play and will be very hungry.”
The Bulldogs will look to avenge a loss to 
the Gators earlier in the season. 
The two teams last met in Charlottesville, 
Virginia, on Feb. 18 during the National Team Indoor Championships. 
However, Mississippi State was playing 
with a disadvantage.
“They were missing their No. 2 player 
when we played them the last time, and it came down to the wire,” Shelton said. “So they’ll have one more bullet out there on the court.”The Bulldogs were missing senior Mate 
Cutura, who will square off with UF senior Elliott Orkin when the two teams meet again. 
Orkin will try to take advantage of Cutu-
ra’s recent struggles, however, as he’s lost his previous two matches against LSU and Texas A&M. 
An intriguing matchup will also take place 
on Court 1, where Alfredo Perez will meet with MSU’s Nuno Borges. 
The young talents are both sophomores 
ranked within the ITA top 10. The two heavy-
weights competed for the ﬁ  rst time this sea-
son in Virginia. However, their match was left unﬁ  nished at an even 6-3, 3-6, 5-5. A win here could mean signiﬁ  cant boosts for either 
player in the individual rankings, though 
Shelton is conﬁ  dent in Perez regardless of his opponent.
“Alfredo’s what I call a street ﬁ  ghter,” 
Shelton said. “He goes out there and com-
petes really hard every match and puts a lot 
of pressure on his opponents with his com-petitive spirit.”
After the Gators have their battle royale 
with Mississippi State, they will cap their regular season with a match against Auburn on Sunday. 
The Tigers may not seem threatening at 
ninth in the SEC, but a slip up this weekend 
could leave the door open for South Carolina 
to take Florida’s spot in the conference’s top four. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org Gators trying to preserve 
postseason advantages   
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Alfredo Perez looks on during Florida’s 4-2 win over UCLA on Feb. 5 at UF’s Ring 
T ennis Complex. 
MEN’S TENNISKeegan: 'W e always expect to win'16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
advertising@alligator.org • 352-376-4482advertising@alligator.org • 352-376-4482advertising@alligator.org • 352-376-4482
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.finaSprin/g.finaSprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
Sprin/g.fina
All ads
receive a
10%
discountAll adsAll adsAll adsAll ads
receive areceive areceive areceive a
10%10%10%10%
discountdiscountdiscountdiscount
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students are getting ready to 
leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last 
paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.Worried that your business Worried that your business Worried that your business Worried that your business Worried that your business Worried that your business 
might take a summer break 
with the students?Worried that your business 
might take a summer break 
with the students?Worried that your business 
might take a summer break 
with the students?
Our Local Living Edition is the perfect place to 
position your advertisements for the local market.
Deadline:Deadline:Deadline:
Wednesday,  April 12Run Date:Run Date:Run Date:
Wednesday,  April 19
the playoffs after overcoming 
such an early setback.
“You can see everybody cares 
on this team. We were really fighting to make the playoffs,” Heat point guard Goran Dragic told the Miami Herald.
“Unfortunately, we didn’t 
make it. This is one of my most 
favorite teams that I’ve been 
a part of. I would go to battle 
with those guys any day… . You cannot achieve more as a group chemistry wise.”
I’ll admit it: I’m an avid Heat 
fan. And nearly halfway through the season, even I thought this team was laughable. 
I was frustrated with guys 
like James Johnson, Tyler John-son, Dion Waiters and Dragic. I thought this team was destined for a top-three lottery pick in the upcoming NBA draft. The play-ers didn’t mesh, the offense was 
atrocious and the defense was 
worse.
But they overcame those ob-
stacles, and in the process, dis-
covered quality players I would 
love to see stay in a Miami Heat uniform.
James Johnson, in my opin-
ion, should be this year’s recipi-
ent of the Most Improved Player 
award. The 30-year-old forward had, by far, the best season of his eight-year career, averaging 12.8 
points, 4.9 rebounds, 3.6 assists 
and 1.1 blocks per game.
Waiters proved to be the 
Heat’s closer, knocking off sev-eral teams with last-second he-
roics. The 25-year-old, who was 
integral in Miami’s 13-game win streak, averaged 15.8 points per game, bringing his career back 
from the dead.Dragic and starting center 
Hassan Whiteside solidified themselves as cornerstones of 
the franchise. Dragic averaged over 20 points per game for the second time in his career (he 
was Miami’s leading scorer), and 
Whiteside added 17 points and a league-best 14.1 rebounds per game. After leading the NBA in blocks last season, Whiteside is 
the first player in Heat history to 
lead the league in rebounding.
This season may not have 
turned out to be what fans and 
players wanted. But give credit  
where credit is due.
A few months ago, I would 
have never dreamed Miami would have a chance at making 
the playoffs.
Thanks, Miami (and coach 
Erik Spoelstra) for making this 
one of the most fun, memorable 
seasons in a long time. COLUMN,  from pg. 14Whiteside is the irst player in Heat 
history to lead the NBA in rebounding
weeks of training.”
For now, the Gators are focused on their 
last two regular-season matches this week-
end at Kentucky on Friday and at Vander-
bilt on Sunday. 
Florida, Georgia and Vanderbilt are in 
a three-way tie for the SEC regular-season 
title as they all carry a 10-1 conference re-cord. Vanderbilt’s lone SEC loss came to 
Kentucky on March 18 when the Wildcats 
upset the Commodores 4-2. The Bulldogs’ loss came against Vanderbilt, which also won 4-2 in March.
While the regular-season title will be 
determined this weekend, the Gators are focused on themselves as they attempt to stay grounded.
“I think it’s all about just taking every-thing day by day and not looking too far ahead and just sticking together,” Wool-cock said.
Florida will look to capitalize this week-
end with both its talent and its mental dis-cipline. Thornqvist said the conference is as tough as it’s ever been, and the Gators have no room for error. However, they walk into this weekend’s matches with 
conﬁ  dence, viewing them like any other 
match.
“Going into every match, we always ex-
pect to win, being the No. 1 team in the 
country,” Keegan said. “I think we’re just 
going to go out and play to the best of our abilities and prepare the same way we al-ways prepare for each match.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org WOMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg. 14The Associated Press
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra reacts during a game on April 8. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Kourtney Keegan hits a ball during Florida's win over Oklahoma State on Feb. 18. 
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
ERIC FUTCH AND T J HOLMES 
HAVE BEEN FRIENDS FOR 
OVER TWO YEARS. 
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer
When Florida redshirt senior hurdler 
Eric Futch crossed the finish line at the 
2016 NCAA Outdoor Championships, he 
turned and looked behind him. 
He had won the NCAA Outdoor 400-me -
ter hurdles title, but seeing his teammate, 
senior TJ Holmes, place second made him 
shout out in excitement. 
“He was like, ‘TJ Holmes!’” Holmes 
said. “He was smiling big. He was extreme -
ly happy because we went one and two, 
and that was big points for the team.” 
Holmes said he was just as happy for 
Futch, although he was four-tenths of a 
second away from winning his own na -
tional championship.  
“I definitely want to see (Futch) do 
well,” he said. “It motivates me.” 
Holmes said spreading this sort of posi -
tivity and encouragement from teammate 
to teammate stems directly from Florida 
coach Mike Holloway. 
“We’re a family,” Holloway said. “What 
Eric (Futch) always says is, ‘We’re going 
to go 1-2, and we’ll just figure out who’s 
going to be first and who’s going to be sec -
ond.”
He said that the two have different 
strengths. Speed for Futch. Endurance for 
Holmes. So they help each other out in 
training while giving each other encour -
agement.
“He goes out there; he pushes me. I go 
out there; I push him. And we just go get 
things done when the time comes,” Futch 
said. 
Futch, a Darby, Pennsylvania, native, 
said the bond between himself and Holmes 
started over two years ago. He said it has 
evolved into a relationship in which they 
can talk to each other about anything — 
especially things they wouldn’t normally 
talk about with anyone else.
Holmes, a St. Petersburg, Florida, na -tive, compares their bond to family. 
“Me and him are like brothers,” he said. 
And like blood brothers, the two don’t 
stray away being competitive. 
Futch said they challenge each other to 
be great every day.
“If he’s in the heat before me, I tell him, 
‘TJ, you know what you got to do to get 
in the big dance…go out there and handle 
your business, and I’ll see you in the fi -
nal.’” 
And they have seen each other in finals 
as recently as March 31 at the Florida Re -
lays. 
Futch and Holmes placed first and sec -
ond, respectively, in the 400-meter hurdle finals at the meet with times of 49.57 and 
49.80. The two were the first collegiate 
hurdlers to run sub-50-second 400-meter 
hurdle times at that point in the season, 
and their 400-meter times currently rank 
second and fourth overall nationally. 
Futch and Holmes will have a chance 
to work on their training this weekend as 
the Gators travel to Fort Worth, Texas, to 
compete in the Horned Frog Invitational. 
Futch will run in the 400 meters, while 
Holmes will run the 800 meters as a part of 
their training models. 
As for the rest of the season, Futch and 
Holmes said they still have goals they’ve 
yet to complete. Futch said it’s been a humbling expe -
rience with people coming up to him and 
calling him a national champion, but he 
added that’s all in the past, and he has to 
continue to work if he’s going to get where 
he wants.
Holmes said he has goals to be an SEC 
champion and national champion this year, 
but he knows there’s still work to be done.
“We have small meets that we have to 
take care of first,” he said, “so that we’re 
prepared for what’s to come in champion -
ship season.” 
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.orgUF hurdlers turned ‘brothers’ want best for each other
Courtesy of UAA Communications
From left: UF hurdlers Eric Futch and T J Holmes do Gator chomps during the Florida Relays. 
RISING FROM  
THE FALLS
Rachel Gowey has fought through injuries and 
setbacks since she was a kid. Today, she and the Gators are ﬁ  ghting for a spot in the NCAA Super Six.FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017  ALLIGATOR   NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP    ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2017
GYMNASTICS PROJECTED LINEUP
VAULT BARS
BEAM FLOOR
KENNEDY 
BAKER
JUNIOR
AMELIA
HUNDLEY
FRESHMANRACHEL 
GOWEYFRESHMAN
AMELIA
HUNDLEYFRESHMANALICIA 
BOREN
SOPHOMORE
RACHEL 
GOWEY
FRESHMANKENNEDY BAKERJUNIOR
ALEX 
MCMURTRYJUNIORRACHEL 
SLOCUM
JUNIOR
ALICIA 
BOREN
SOPHOMOREAMELIA HUNDLEYFRESHMAN
ALICIA 
BORENSOPHOMOREALEX 
MCMURTRY
JUNIOR
ALEX 
MCMURTRY
JUNIORALEX MCMURTRYJUNIOR
KENNEDY
BAKERJUNIORRACHEL
 GOWEY
FRESHMAN
GRACE 
MCLAUGHLIN
JUNIORMAEGAN 
CHANT
FRESHMAN
RACHEL 
SLOCUMJUNIORAMELIA 
HUNDLEY
FRESHMAN
KENNEDY 
BAKER
JUNIORALICIA BORENSOPHOMORE
GRACE 
MCLAUGHLINJUNIORBy Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Rachel Gowey stepped onto the 
mat, closed her blue-gray eyes and 
took a deep breath.
It was 2014, and she was a 
16-year-old at the U.S. Gymnastics Championships, a pit stop before she planned to represent the U.S. 
at the Pan-American games.
As she warmed up, she 
dismounted the beam with her 
signature triple twist, but she landed wrong.
Her knees buckled, and she 
crumpled onto the blue mat clutch-ing her lower leg. Her coach, Liang Chow, swept her off the competi-
tion floor.
She’d fractured her right ankle. 
A broken ankle could end a 
gymnast’s career, but not Gowey’s. 
After more than six months of 
recovery and then an additional surgery to fix a floating bone chip, she returned to gymnastics and fi-nally arrived at Florida.
Now, after tackling her injuries, 
shyness and falls, Gowey is a piv-otal part of the No. 3 Gators’ lineup as the team heads into the NCAA Championship semifinals today in 
St. Louis with its eyes on an NCAA 
title.
“I want it so bad,” Gowey said. 
“I hope we can go out there and 
win that title.”
•   •   •
Rhonda Gowey doesn’t watch 
her daughter compete.
Not since Gowey fell off the bars 
during a competition when she was 10 years old. 
The nerves and pressure she 
and her husband felt while watch-
ing their youngest of three daugh-ters was overwhelming.
“They would kind of roam the 
concourse or sit in the bathroom until I was done,” Gowey said.
Gowey’s mother is a former 
high school gymnast who became a coach. Her older sister, Taylor, competed until middle school, but Gowey is the only one to take her skill to the collegiate level.
However, Gowey’s parents nev-
er pushed her into gymnastics.
Despite being raised by a gym-
nastics coach, she danced, played 
softball and did cheerleading.
Her mother unintentionally 
sparked her passion for the sport 
when she would bring a 2-year-old Gowey to the gym to play on 
the mats as she trained other gym-
nasts. It wasn’t until her mom got a job at an elite gym called Chow’s Gymnastics and Dance Institute 
that Gowey took a class at the age 
of 5.
She told her mom she would do 
gymnastics for a year, and then she was done.
Even when Chow — who even-
tually coached Olympic gold med-alists Shawn Johnson and Gabby 
Douglas — personally asked her to 
join the gym’s team at age 7, she declined to focus on competitive cheerleading.  
But eventually, she found her 
passion for to the sport.
In a career that spanned more 
than a decade, she worked her way up to Senior International Elite — 
the highest level of competitive 
gymnastics —  by age 16 and won an individual and team gold medal while representing the U.S. at the 
2015 Pan-American Games. 
One of the final stages of her 
adolescent journey ended in San 
Jose, California, with an 11th place finish in the 2016 U.S. Olympic Tri-als last July.  
Her hard work earned her a 
scholarship to the University of Florida.
As Rhonda drove the nearly 
1,200 miles from Urbandale, Iowa, 
to Gowey’s new home in Gainesville 
last August, she reflected on the all those years throughout her daugh-
ter’s strenuous career.
“She had those days in the car 
where she would just would cry and say, ‘I just can’t do it any-
more,” Rhonda said. “I said to her that day, ‘Rachel, if I would have turned the car around and went 
home, where do you think I would 
be driving right now instead of Florida?’”
•   •   •
Gowey stands at 5-foot-1.The 19-year-old has curly 
shoulder-length light brown hair, 
normally pulled back into a po-
nytail before practice, with bright blueish-gray eyes.
Her nails are almost always 
painted. She likes brighter colors in spring and summer and prefers darker shades in the fall and win-ter.
She’s soft-spoken, shyer and 
more reserved than some of her teammates during interviews and answers questions more seriously.
But whenever she’s asked about 
her roommates —  fellow freshmen Sierra Alexander, Amelia Hund-ley and Maegan Chant — her eyes crinkle as a wide smile spreads across her face.
The entourage — and some-
times teammate Rachel Slocum —  do almost everything outside 
of the gym together. They go to the movies, hang in hammocks by 
Lake Alice, lie out by the pool and, occasionally, clad in fake mustach-
es and black hoodies, spy on each 
other’s dates.
“We’re like sisters now,” Chant 
said.
It’s a more social life than the 
one Gowey had in high school as an elite gymnast.
Back then, she traveled around 
the world and trained 29 hours six 
days a week while taking classes at 
nearby Johnston High School.
And while she went to prom and 
football games, going out to the 
movies on the weekends wasn’t 
usually an option for Gowey be-cause of training and traveling to 
meets.
Her extreme focus and dedica-
tion molded her into a person her family didn’t always recognize.
“That elite world made her be-
come so quiet and so withdrawn,” 
her mom said. “She really wasn’t like that at home with us.”
But that’s changed since she’s 
arrived in Gainesville.
“She’s really funny. She has this 
weird sense of humor,” teammate 
Alex McMurtry said, “and actually 
has this strong cackle, so you don’t hear her say much, but she’ll just burst out laughing on the bus.”
The Gators’ coach has seen a 
change just in the last few months.
“(She) had a hard time recogniz-
ing that it was OK to have a little fun, to smile, to laugh in the gym and really has just blossomed,” 
coach Jenny Rowland said. “She’s 
really come into her own as far as confidence.”
•   •   •
Gowey has had a solid freshman 
season.
She competed in the all-around 
six times, winning the title once.
She recorded five scores over 
9.90.
She earned a spot on the SEC 
All-Freshman team.
And during Florida’s meet 
against Missouri in the regular sea-son, she came close to perfection with a 9.95 on bars.
However, her season hasn’t 
been mistake-free. 
She fell five times, but each time 
she rose and recovered.
“If you’re making mistakes, you 
let them go and move forward,” Rowland said. “Gowey in general 
will come back into the gym fo-
cused and determined as ever.”
In her home debut, she nearly 
fell off the balance beam.
Two weeks later she redeemed 
herself in front of the home crowd by sticking her routine and earning a career-high score of 9.925.
At LSU on Mar. 5, she fell while 
performing her floor routine.
The following meet, in the 
Gators’ regular-season finale 
against West Virginia, she claimed 
her first career all-around title.
And after falling off the bars in 
the NCAA Gainesville Regional, Gowey is ready for one last come-
back.
“I know I’m able to do it, and I 
know I’m able to do it well,” she 
said. “Having that mistake, it frus-
trates me knowing that I wasn’t 
able to put up my best.”
Gowey is prepared to push past 
her mistakes when she competes in the NCAA Championship 
semifinals today in what could 
be the last meet of her freshman season. 
Her ability to overcome stems 
from a lifetime spent overcoming not just falls, but injuries, shyness and intense, constant practices. 
“Sweat would just be pouring 
down her face,” Rhonda said. “And 
she would just be doing beam rou-
tine after beam routine after beam routine, and I thought ‘How can she keep doing that?’ 
It’s paid off. It’s all been worth 
it.”
@LStaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgBack on her feet
Gowey is used to falling. Now, she wants to be known for getting up.
Courtesy of Rhonda Gowey
Rachel Gowey, left, poses with gymnastics coach Liang Chow and other gymnasts around age 12. Chow 
also coached Olympic gold medalists Shawn Johnson and Gabby Douglas. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Rachel Gowey performs her beam routine during Florida’s win over Auburn on Jan. 27 in the O’Connell Center. 
‘It’s paid off. It’s 
all been worth it. ’
Rhonda Gowey
Rachel Gowey’s mother