We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Is McElwain’s claim of death 
threats legitimate?
Our columnist argues there are inconsistencies with his story, pg. 14. SG announces mental health task force 
Its speciﬁ  c duties are still to be decided, pg. 3
Solidarity through art 
Queer and transgender students display artwork, pg 3.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 27
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student died Saturday after falling 
from the third ﬂ  oor of 13th Street Apart-
ments, Gainesville Police said.
Ian Burns, 20, was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital after falling from the building, formerly known as University House apartments, Lt. Audrey Mazzuca 
said. GPD responded to the apartment, lo-
cated at 725 NW 13th St., after multiple witnesses and friends who saw him fall called 911 at about 6:07 p.m.
Burns fell from the third ﬂ  oor balcony 
and several witnesses saw him fall, Lt. Da-vid Rowe said. Rowe said it is still unclear how Burns fell, and the fall is still under investigation.
“Our detectives are still following up 
on that,” he said. “It’s an open investiga-tion.”
Detective Matthew Goeckel, a GPD 
spokesperson, said no foul play was sus-
pected in the fall. 
It is unknown if Burns lived at Univer-
sity House.
His family, who lives in West Palm 
Beach, was notiﬁ  ed of his passing later 
Saturday night, Mazzuca said. The family had not made a formal statement to me-dia, as of press time.
Burns was a mechanical engineering 
senior, said John Hines, a UF spokesper-son. 
The College of Engineering hasn’t yet 
made plans for Burns’ memorial, Hines 
said. He said Burns’ death is a tragedy.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF student dies falling oﬀ   
apartment balcony
By Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer
Alvaro Chaux knows Saturday will be a 
hard day.
The 21-year-old will observe the one-year 
anniversary of the death of his friend Abi-
gail Dougherty, a UF student who was killed 
while riding her bike on W. University Av-
enue on Oct. 28, 2016.  
“I hope that day is full of happiness,” the 
UF accounting senior said. “The best way to cope with it is to not try to hide it was abso-lutely horrible, but at the same time remem-
ber how dear she was.” 
Chaux won’t go through it alone. The 
Field and Fork Pantry and Campus Dip-lomats organized three events to honor 
Dougherty’s memory — a food drive, which took place over the past few weeks, a day of 
service on Tuesday and a yoga class sched-
uled on Dougherty’s birthday, Nov. 3. She would have turned 22. 
Dougherty was involved with the pantry 
and Campus Diplomats, and she was a yoga 
instructor with UF RecSports. 
The Field and Fork Pantry launched the 
food drive in Dougherty’s name from Oct. 9 to Oct. 23, which they hope will become an 
annual tradition.
“That girl literally breathed the Field and 
Fork Pantry,” Chaux said. “All she thought about was that pantry — how can we ex-pand it, how can we help more students, 
how can we get more products?” 
About 20 students participated in the Day 
of Service, which was held from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday at the Field and Fork Pantry, 
said Ambre Hobson, the assistant director of student success at the Dean of Students 
Ofﬁ  ce. Volunteers were divided into two 
groups — some labeled, weighed and coded the goods collected during the food drive and Day of Service launched for late 
UF student Abigail Dougherty
SEE ABBY,  PAGE 4Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
R.L. Stine speaks at the University Auditorium on Tuesday. More than 700 people came to hear Stine 
share his stories and answer audience questions.
CARL Y FIORINA WILL 
BE ACCENT’S NEXT 
SPEAKER ON NOV . 1.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The laughs of about 750 people 
echoed inside the University Au-
ditorium on Tuesday when R.L. 
Stine, the author of the popu-
lar children’s horror book series “Goosebumps,” took the stage. 
Stein, who was paid $27,500 by 
Accent Speakers Bureau, read fan mail, spoke about his family, his career and his creative process.
One of Stein’s favorite letters, 
which he saved, said “you’re my 
second favorite author.”
He said most of the letters he 
gets ask where his ideas come 
from, but he’s not sure.
“I have something in my brain 
that I don’t get scared by a book or a movie,” Stine said. “Horror always makes me laugh.” 
Stein shared the time he met 
his inspiration, writer Ray Brad-bury, at a book festival, a run-in that made him cry. 
He told Bradbury he was 
Stein’s hero, and Bradbury re-plied, “Well, you’re a hero to a lot of people.”
Shelby Buchanan, the chair-
woman of the Accent Speakers Bureau, wrote in an email that students requested a children’s 
author and a horror author in a 
student survey. She said Stein was a choice that fulﬁ  lled both requests. 
“Additionally, many stu-
dents have grown up reading the ‘Goosebumps’ book series,” Bu-chanan said. “Several students have expressed excitement over 
the nostalgia aspect of this show 
especially.” 
At the meeting, Buchanan an-
nounced the next Accent Speakers event, which will be Carly Fiorina, 
former Republican presidential 
candidate, on Nov. 1. 
Andy Lia, a UF food science se-
nior, found out about the speech 
two weeks ago. He said he was 
excited to see the author after he saw the Goosebumps series on Netﬂ  ix.
“I didn’t expect a comedy show 
kind of thing,” the 22-year-old said. “I thought of him more as a serious person, but I loved his jokes. I loved what he was talking 
about.” ‘Goosebumps’ author humors audience at Accent event
SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
HIGH  70° LOW  44°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply Now for 2018-19 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-19 FAFSA is now available. UF’s 
“on-time” deadline to receive 
the results of your 2018-19 FAFSA from the federal pro-cessor is Dec. 15. Apply well before Dec. 15 to ensure that 
the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, first-
served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit 
fafsa.ed.gov or contact your 
SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Pride events UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program is host-ing a panel called “Queer in 
the Capital: DC Pride 2017 
Fieldwork Trip Roundtable,” for students to hold a multi-media presentation on their trip to Washington, D.C., for 
the Equality March for Unity 
and Pride. The panel will be  Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the second floor atrium 
of Ustler Hall on UF’s campus. 
Slavery and the Humanities in 
the University
Alfred Brophy, a legal schol-ar from the University of Alabama, will give a free lec-ture on the relationship be-
tween pre-Civil War south-
ern universities and slavery Thursday at 5:30 p.m. The event will be held in Smathers 
Library, Room 100. This is 
the inaugural event for the UF Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere’s Animating Conversations programming. 
Visit humanities.ufl.edu for 
more information. 
UF Fulbright Information 
SessionUF Fulbright Programs is hosting “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” on Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. Presentations will be quick and concise. The event will be an 
opportunity to network with 
U.S. and international Fulbright participants. Light refresh-ments will be served. To regis-ter, please visit eventbrite.com 
and search by event title. The 
presentations are: My Graduate Studies—Determination,  Recklessness and Luck: The 
Feasibility of Improbable Paths 
by Sergio Marconi; Nerve Tissue Engineering by Syed-Jamal Mustafa; and How do photo-journalists make such great pic-
tures? by Mindy McAdams. For 
more information, email mcar-dec@ufic.ufl.edu. 
Starry Night 
Observe the night sky and ex-plore the world beyond at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Friday from 6 p.m. 
to 10 p.m. Gaze through high-
performance telescopes at the stars and see a portable plane-tarium show. Join the museum 
for this free night of astronomi-
cal proportions. For more infor-mation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/starrynight or call 352-273-2062.
Gallery Talk: Exploring the 
Tree of LifeJoin professors Doug and Pam 
Soltis, faculty in the Florida 
Museum of Natural History, as they discuss artist depictions of Florida species and the global importance of biodiversity in 
the interactive exhibition “The 
Tree of Life.” This talk will be held at the Harn Museum of Art on Sunday at 3 p.m. Admission 
is free. Visit harn.ufl.edu/
treeoflife for more information. 
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plications
Do you make cool stuff? 
Gainesville’s largest indie craft show is looking for artists and crafters who make unique, gift-
able goods for the upcoming 
Dec. 3 holiday shopping event at First Magnitude Brewery. Apply online by Nov. 1 at glam-craftshow.com/apply.
Drink with the Extinct
The Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting “Drink with 
the Extinct” to share science with the community. Sip brews 
in the shadow of the mam-moth, sample local fare beside the mastodon and enjoy live 
music Nov. 3 from 7 p.m. to 
9 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Proceeds benefit the museum’s pop-up program. Participants must be 
21 or older. Tickets are $30, or 
$25 for museum members. For more information, visit florida-museum.ufl.edu/event/drink-
with-the-extinct or call 352-
273-2047.
Free tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the 
UF Argentine Tango Club for 
free lessons every Sunday. 
Whether you’re a beginner or 
a seasoned dancer, everyone is welcome. No experience, 
partner or special shoes are re-
quired. Just bring a thick pair 
of socks. Beginner-level lessons 
are held every Sunday at 6:15 
p.m., followed by advanced-
level lessons at 7:15 p.m. 
Classes are held in the Reitz 
Union, Dance Studio A. Find 
the UF Argentine Tango Club 
on Facebook for more details.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction
In the article titled “Gainesville businesses pay tribute to late Tom Petty,” published on Monday, the lead singer 
of Heavy Petty, a Tom Petty 
tribute band, is named Jason Hedges. The Alligator reported differently. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 27
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Grand  Opening
THE9GAINESVILLE.com •  1404 W UNIVEr SITy A VE, SUITE 10, GAINESVILLE, FL  
TExT NINEGAINESVILLE T o 47464 T o STAy Up To dATE! 
@THE9GAINESVILLE • 352.389.5383 •Live Life to 
the 9’ S
1404 W University Ave 
Suite 10 Gainesville,  
fl 32603
free food!NoV 1ST
12–7pm
Nov 1st, 12–7pm
Waived fees for 
first 25 people, a  
Savings of $398!
$2500 worth of prizes, 
eDC orlando tickets, 
and Uf vs fSU tickets!• coffee Bar with 
complimentary Starbucks
• Bowling Alley
• pool Volleyball
• community Fire pit 
• Lounge Hammocks
• corn Hole
• Luxury Spa
• private pool cabanas
• Zero Entry pool
• imac computer Station• Gaming lounge with pool Table, ping pong, 
Air Hockey
• 18' Jumbo-Tron
• Two-Story Fitness Facility
• TV Lounge with  
xbox one and pS4
• Tanning Bed &  
Tanning Booth
• Ultra-High-Speed Wi-Fi in common Areas• Fitness/yoga Studio with Fitness on demand
• 50" 4k Flat-Screen TVs
• robust cable package
• Located in the Heart of Sorority row 
• Walk-In closets in Select Units
• private Balcony in every Unit
• BBQ Grills• Electronic Unit  
Entry Locks 
• ceiling Fans in Living room & Bedroom
• Granite Kitchen & Bathroom countertops 
• private Ultra-High Speed Internet
• private Study rooms with 60" Touchscreen monitors
• And so much more!By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man, who was ar-
rested on unrelated charges, is being 
questioned by police for a shooting Monday afternoon near the Lin-ton Oaks neighborhood that sent a 
28-year-old resident to the hospital. 
No suspect has been identiﬁ  ed 
in relation to the shooting, said Lt. 
Becky Butscher, an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesperson.
Police found Brandon Xavier 
James, 27, after an hourlong search 
for a possible suspect near the shoot-ing, which happened at the 6200 block of Southwest 10th Place at about 2 p.m. Monday.
At ﬁ  rst, James was questioned 
for information on the shooting until police found he had an active search warrant for outstanding charges, 
at which point they arrested him, 
ACSO spokesperson Sgt. Chris Sims said. 
He was arrested on charges in-
cluding resisting an ofﬁ  cer during arrest, possession of a weapon as a convicted felon and marijuana pos-session under 20 grams. As of press time, James remains in Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $195,000 bond. 
The victim was sitting on the 
driveway outside his apartment home before he was shot twice, Butscher said. The gunman was armed with a small caliber handgun 
and ﬁ  red three shots at the victim. 
Police are still going over leads 
for a possible suspect, she said. The 
victim went into surgery Monday evening. His current state is un-known as of press time. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org ACSO: Male shot twice, sent to 
hospital; no suspect identiﬁ  edBy Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Body President Smith 
Meyers said he will implement a new 
mental health advocacy task force  to address the lack of funding for the Counseling and Wellness Center.
Meyers announced the task force 
at Student Senate on Tuesday.
“I’ve known about this mental 
health issue for a while, and as you have seen last week and this week, mental health is an issue on this campus, and it’s an issue students are passionate about,” Meyers said.He named UF psychology and 
family, youth and community sci-ences senior Valeria Hernandez, a 
suicide survivor, as the task force 
leader. 
The task force will serve as a plat-
form for students to talk about men-tal health to their representatives in SG and the state legislature. 
“We want to hear student con-
cerns and offer them that space to be heard,” Hernandez, 22, said. “I think 
the university will really beneﬁ  t from 
this.”
Hernandez said the task force’s 
duties aren’t concrete yet, but she would like to hold forums and meet-ings, as well as lobby representatives by sending them letters.
Although details are undecided, 
Hernandez said she wants the task force to have about seven members. 
Smith said he chose Hernandez 
because she reached out to him in April. They met about six times since to discuss solutions to lack of fund-ing for mental health. 
“Mental health should not be a 
privilege; it should be a right,” Her-nandez said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgSG starts mental health taskforce 
By Alexandra Regueiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
After cutting off her long, curly 
hair, Conjay Dahn picked up char-
coal and drew it on a canvas.
Tuesday night, Dahn, a UF ex-
ploratory sophomore, presented her artwork for the Queer and Trans People of Color art show in the LGBTQ Affairs suite. The show included artwork from ﬁ  ve queer 
and transgender people of color.
Dahn submitted a watercolor 
piece titled “Forward,” as well as 
a mixed media piece composed of 
charcoal, chalk and paint titled “I 
am My Hair” and two untitled wa-
tercolor pieces.
“The painting was an ode to 
me ﬁ  guring out more about my-
self and ﬁ  guring out what my hair 
represented,” the 19-year-old said. 
“The painting wasn’t just my hair, it was who I was as a person.”
Dahn said she hopes the show 
inspires other queer and transgen-
der students of color to express 
themselves through art.
“All of these pieces tell a story 
and sometimes it’s easier to dis-
play a story through some type 
of artwork,” Dahn said. “I hope 
people can look at these pieces and see more than what’s on the page.”
The show’s theme was “deﬁ  -
nition,” said Mustafa Hammad, 
the organizer of the show and UF 
political science sophomore. The 
show, attended by about 25 stu-
dents, gave members of the UF student organization QTPOC Col-
lective a chance to redeﬁ  ne them-
selves and work together against 
white supremacy on campus, 
Hammad said. 
“In Gainesville, we don’t have 
a place to express our individuality 
and our artwork,” the 19-year-old 
said. “Our goal was to establish a presence on campus to show that not only are we here, but we’re 
thriving through our artwork.”
Alongside the paintings and 
sketches, students gave spoken 
word performances.
Billy Huff, the director of LG-
BTQ affairs, said if the LGBTQ 
community wants change and 
visibility, it’s important to secure rights for the most marginalized people in the community ﬁ  rst. 
“I think that this art show will 
allow people to see the perspective that all LGBTQ people are differ-ent and have different experiences and ways of expressing them-
selves,” Huff said. “There’s not 
just one story.”Show displays art from 
LGBTQ students of color4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
others helped out with the harvest 
at the pantry’s garden. 
Hobson’s ﬁ  rst impression of 
Dougherty was that she was a quiet person, but she soon learned 
Dougherty was funny and witty. 
She said she often misses Dough-
erty’s spirit and she especially will 
Saturday. 
“It’s still kind of fresh for some 
people, so we wanted to make sure we got through it as a community,” 
Hobson said. 
Chaux, who’s a Campus Diplo-
mat, met Dougherty through the 
organization. She had a quirky personality, he said. She skipped around hallways and seemed to al-
ways be humming a song to herself. 
A particular story about Dough-
erty sticks out in Chaux’s mind.
As a diplomat, Dougherty was 
once assigned to give a tour of the 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, but instead of walking around, she told them to 
sit down for a while and appreciate 
the sunset.
“I can only hope she’s at peace 
and happy wherever she is, prob-ably making someone laugh,” Ch-
aux said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgABBY,  from pg. 1Dougherty would have turned 22 on Nov. 3 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Students organize canned goods and other items at Field and Fork Pantry’s Day of Service on Tuesday.
After the speech, students came 
up to ask Stein questions.
Peter Nguyenho was one of the 
ﬁ  rst to come and ask the question 
Stein gets the most: “Where do you get your ideas from?”
The audience and Stein laughed 
in response. 
The 20-year-old UF psychology 
junior said his ﬁ  rst Goosebumps novel was “Cry of the Cat,” which he read in the third grade because 
his favorite animal was a cat. He 
said that he’s read about 20 books of Stein’s and seen most of the movies. 
“Comparing every other Goose-
bumps novel I’ve read after that, (“Cry of the Cat”) was still my fa-vorite,” Nguyenho said. 
Nguyenho said that R.L. Stine 
was one of his childhood heroes. 
“It was pretty cool being able 
to talk to him and ask a question. It felt almost very surreal. It felt 
like I was in a novel, too,” Nguy-
enho said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgACCENT,  from pg. 1He shared 
stories WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Emerson Weitzel sat at a desk Tuesday morn-
ing surrounded by her colleagues and faced with 
a tough $100,000 decision difﬁ  cult for any mayor — especially when you’re only 10 and your fellow commissioners are all ﬁ  fth-graders. 
The City of Gainesville invited 14 ﬁ  fth-grade 
students from Alachua County Public Schools to participate in Florida City Government week by touring city facilities and meeting city employees. The October recipients of the citizen of the month awards at their respective schools took part in a mock city commission meeting with City Commis-sioner Harvey Budd, met City Manager Anthony Lyons, watched a police dog demonstration and 
shot a commercial for the city broadcast channel, said Bob Woods, a city spokesperson. 
“This program in particular is really about edu-
cating our young folks who one day will grow up to possibly become members of city government 
either as professional public servants or as elected ofﬁ  cials,” Woods said. “Each year it really is a joy to see the light bulbs turn on as kids are exposed to this wonderful opportunity.”
The 12-year-old city program is meant to in-
form children about the role local government plays in its citizens’ lives, he said. 
Todd McLane, 10, enjoyed the police dog dem-
onstration and didn’t expect commission meetings to be so long. 
“I thought all they do was sit there, and they’d 
be like, ‘Do you wanna do this?’ and then they’d just say it, and then it would be done,” he said. “It would take like 30 minutes — not 12 hours.”Fifth-graders celebrate Florida 
City Government week
THE EVENT COST ABOUT $1,000.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
In the main room of the Senior Recreation 
Center, the air resembled that of a miniature 
State of the Union address Tuesday evening. 
“It’s our State of the Union,” said Cynthia 
Chestnut, chair of Alachua County Democratic Party. “It’s like a report card back to the people. You’re taking that information back to them.” 
County Democrats hosted their third annual 
State of the Party and Awards Ceremony at the senior center, located at 5701 NW 34th Blvd., at 5:30 p.m. The event cost about $1,000. 
More than 50 Democrats gathered to hear 
how their party advanced over the past year and honored ﬁ  ve members who the 96-mem-
ber executive committee voted for. Among those awarded — including Haw-
thorne Mayor Matthew Surrency for his post-
hurricane relief work and Alachua County resident Casey Willits for his volunteer work in voter outreach — was UF political science freshman Stephon Adams. 
Adams, 19, who works as an intern for 
Chestnut and ran for an Impact Party seat in the Tolbert Area in September, won the Young 
Democrats award for his work engaging youth in politics. Adams said to encourage biparti-
sanship, he tries to make everyone feel wel-come to the voting process.
“When I’m going out (to) work elections, 
I always make sure that we’re working as if there’s a completely equal playing ﬁ  eld — that no one that is completely blue, no one is com-pletely red,” Adams said. “Everyone gets their equal playing ﬁ  eld.”
@hoffdavid123 Alachua County Dems hosts third annual award ceremonyBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested outside 
a school for two home burglaries Monday morning, Gainesville Police said. 
William Patrick Carrick, 28, broke into 
a home near the Oaks Mall at about 7:30 
a.m., according to an arrest report. The resi-
dent, who was asleep, woke up and found Carrick in his kitchen.
“S---, I’m out of here,” Carrick said, 
walking past the resident and out the back door with the resident’s laptop, according to the report. The resident called police, who canvassed the area.
At 11:05 a.m., police were called about 
a man at Brentwood School, at 1111 NW 55th St., who was using the school’s hose to clean mud off his body. A responding ofﬁ  cer found Carrick standing in a yard 
across the street from the school without a 
shirt and shoes.
After he was identiﬁ  ed by the resident 
and arrested, Carrick confessed to stealing the laptop and a pressure washer from an-other house, police said.
He told ofﬁ  cers he hated stealing but 
had an addiction to Xanax, according to the report.
Carrick was arrested on charges of grand 
theft and burglary. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $130,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eldGPD: Man steals from two 
homes, uses school hoseThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
It’s like clockwork. Every year around 
this time, the pumpkin spice lattes come out, Hallmark movies start to play on 
television and the temperature in this 
majestic city drops into the high-sixties. 
And just as I start to put on my light jacket to protect me from the less-than-sweltering 
temperatures, my phone starts vibrating un-
controllably. I roll my eyes as I see text after text from guy after guy professing their love for me. They all want to be exclusive. Don’t get me wrong — it’s flattering. But more so, it’s exhausting. 
I hate to break it to all of you lovely gents, but this 
year, I am not participating in cuffing season. Allow me to explain: During the months deemed “winter,” it’s a common phenomenon for single people to start 
feeling the desire to be “cuffed” to a significant other, 
and we tend to see a gap in our lives where a relation-ship could possibly arise. We realize that dressing up for Halloween, driving home for Thanksgiving or going ice skating might be just a little better with a special 
someone by our side. 
But not me. No, sir. 
I’m flattered that so many of you have sent flowers 
to my apartment and paid my cover at Midtown. Re-
ally, it’s so kind. I’d be more than happy to be friends 
with each and every one of you, but I’m just not look-ing for a boyfriend this winter. Most girls would like nothing more than a person to kiss after Gator touch-downs or to post photos in Christmas sweaters with 
their significant other. Well, listen here. I’m not like 
most girls, okay?
I get it. I’m a catch. I would probably want to date 
me, too. My La Croix addiction is edgy and my ability 
to watch four to six straight episodes of Criminal Minds 
in one sitting is admirable. I’ve also recently started understanding football, and I’ve been called beautiful by not one but two of my grand-mothers. “Get a girl who can do both,” they 
say. Sorry fellas, that girl just isn’t me.
Don’t blame yourselves, boys. It’s not 
you, it’s me and my incredibly demanding 
schedule. This cuffing season, I simply don’t 
have time for a serious relationship. Between 
writing this column, taking 12 credits of gru-eling journalism electives and going to hip-
hop fitness at the gym, it just isn’t feasible. I wouldn’t have time for cute dates downtown or shopping for 
your Hanukkah present, even if I wanted to do those 
things.
More than that, I’m forgoing cuffing season because 
I find the winter months the absolute best time to be 
alone. Who needs a man to cuddle up to when you 
have your laptop battery to keep you warm? I can’t be distracted while I Facebook stalk my ex-boyfriend’s new girlfriend and somehow her high school soccer coach. Winter is red wine season, and I don’t need 
someone hogging the bottle. I don’t need anyone judg-
ing me when I cry at the sad part of “Elf,” either. 
Maybe next cuffing season, I’ll give the relationship 
thing a whirl. But for now, guys, just let me live. 
For the other singles still reading, I invite you to 
join me on my faithful boycott. Let’s stop feeling sorry for ourselves (not that we do that or anything,) and let’s start flipping the script. Now is the time to make the most of every fleeting day that we get to say we’re 
single college students. I have a feeling there will be 
plenty of cuffed seasons to come, so let’s enjoy this one alone. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.  Cuffing season is not for everyone, especially meCoach Jim McElwain has been under fire since the be-
ginning of  this year’s football season. A 3-3 record for the Gators so far this year, including consecutive home game losses, hasn’t caused the public to look upon McElwain any more favorably. In fact, according 
to McElwain, he, his family and several Gator football players have been receiving death threats in response to the team’s poor performance lately.
Last Wednesday, McElwain revealed to the public the news 
about the death threats. When asked about his reaction to the threats, he simply said that they are “part of the business.” Al-though McElwain appeared to just brush off the death threats as if they were nothing more than an expected inconvenience, we can’t help but be bothered and disturbed by them.
We get it, football is important to a lot of people and it’s 
something just about any fan can get pretty passionate about. We fully expect yelling in the stadium and heckling from the opposing team at rival games. But death threats? That seems a little bit extreme — at least to us, anyway. 
At best, the Florida Gators are an average football team. We 
aren’t awful, and we aren’t the laughing stock of the SEC, but we also aren’t the greatest college football team to come out of the Southeast. And that’s OK. Most of us didn’t come to this 
school because of its stellar football record, and we are certain 
that no Gator grads are going to find it more challenging to get a job with “University of Florida” on their resume just because the school’s football team had a couple of bad seasons. 
So why are fans so upset? Really, we’d just like to know.We can’t speak for everyone, but most of us would have 
supported our school’s team regardless of their performance on the field. It’s just what you do. You wear the colors, you yell the chants and when it comes down to it, you support your team 
because they are just that — your team. 
What’s more is that when Gator fans act this way, whether 
they are alumni, current students or just general Gator fans, 
the whole school and its fanbase looks bad. Taking into ac-count that UF is a big, southern university, it can be easy to feel like our football team defines our school as a whole. But, dear reader, we have news for you: it doesn’t. What defines our uni-versity and our fanbase is our character. Sending death threats to our football coach, his family and our players? That doesn’t 
exactly speak well for our character.
As current students, alumni and Gator fans, we have a lot 
to be proud of. Besides the fact that UF has been ranked as a 
top 10 public university, our other sports teams haven’t been doing too poorly lately. Our baseball team won the national championship last year, our women’s gymnastic team is ranked third in the nation and our women’s volleyball team continues to rank among the highest in the country. Instead of sending death threats to our football team, why don’t we take the time 
to celebrate these far less publicized wins for our school?
In other sports, we don’t see the coaches getting death 
threats, we don’t see the players’ lives endangered and we 
don’t see an absurd amount of aggression if the team has a bad season. The presence of death threats is not something anyone should be faced with — especially not for something as mean-ingless as a sports game. Please, Gator fans, reevaluate the se-verity of what you’re doing, and consider the way your actions are impacting McElwain, his family, our team and our fanbase.There is no place 
for death threats 
in football
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the EditorWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
This semester I’ve found my-
self running. Running, not in 
the “late for class” kind of way, but more so running through this semester and through these 
next two months to gradua-
tion. Some of you, regardless of whether you’re graduating or not, might also feel this way.
I’ve decided that for my san-
ity, I’m going to stop running and give myself a break. I invite you all to do the same.
Each semester at UF either darts away 
at an alarming speed or barely crawls by. This is why it sometimes feels like we have to be everywhere at once or why we get a gnawing feeling that we’re not doing enough. Personally, I’ve swung to both sides of the spectrum this semester only to ﬁ  nd that when my schedule is light, I start to overcompensate and make every second last. In the end, my weeks that were sup-
posed to be easy end up ﬁ  lled with anxiety. 
I do it to myself, and I’m sure a lot of you do, too. There’s a reason we’re at a uni-
versity that’s in the top 10 in the country 
— we’re overachievers by heart.
Being hyperinvolved is an admirable 
trait, don’t get me wrong, but we need to schedule time to enjoy ourselves.
We too often ﬁ  nd ourselves running 
through semesters, only to be rewarded with a week of peace before a new se-mester or a new job hits us. This vicious 
cycle leaves us with a trying task: to ﬁ  nd 
a balance between our work life and our personal life. It might sound easy enough, but I know I can’t be the only one who struggles with it. Make time for the things that matter, and especially make time for your mental health.When I say to take a break, I 
mean that you need to learn to give yourself days off every now and then, even if you don’t think you have the time. I didn’t real-ize I’d been running for weeks until this weekend came along and for the second time this en-
tire semester, I spent my whole 
weekend outside of the library. 
It is both a scary and liber-
ating feeling to step away from work and school for two days, but it is necessary. Un-like robots or machines, we need rest and breaks from intensive studying or working 30-hour weeks. We need time to recharge before we go straight back into the storm. 
Dear readers, please make sure you’re giv-
ing yourself this time. If you’re not, your health and mental well-being could start to suffer. 
Whether it’s going home for a weekend 
or spending an entire day with snacks in bed watching Netﬂ  ix, do it, because you deserve it. This is why I want you to prom-ise yourself to see the signs of being over-
worked, and do something. You may think 
you’re okay now, but all of that exhaustion and anxiety will catch up to you one day. Your career or your grades won’t crash and burn if you decide to treat yourself to some time off. In fact, you’ll probably come back stronger and with a clearer head. 
As Maya Angelou once said, “each per-
son deserves a day away in which no prob-
lems are confronted, no solutions searched 
for.  Each of us needs to withdraw from the cares which will not withdraw from us.” 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column appears on 
Wednesday.We all deserve a break sometimesColumn
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.org
In Spring of my sophomore year, I was over-
whelmed. 
Between my class load, serving as Access 
Party's Student Senate Minority Leader, be-ing on my fraternity’s executive board and 
other obligations, it was too much. 
So equipped with knowledge of campus re-
sources from my over-involvement, I reached out to the Counseling & Wellness Center.
I was told I couldn't be seen for a month.I was devastated. It’s one thing to know the 
statistics — to know the wait times are bad — it’s another for someone to say they can’t help you.
Since then, funding for the CWC and mental 
health holds a special place in my heart. That's why it's disheartening to see the current contro-versy surrounding CWC funding.
Condemning the student members of the lo-
cal fee committee may feel better, but it does very little to solve any problems. Missing from the shouting and the condemnation are facts.
The local fee committee has no power on its 
own to raise fees. All it does is provide recom-mendations to the UF Board of Trustees who, in turn, submit requests to the State University System's Board of Governors, which makes ﬁ  -nal decisions. Gov. Rick Scott appointed 14 of 17 board members, who very clearly support his desire to freeze all student fee increases in Florida. So the Student Government ofﬁ  cials on 
the local fee committee made the tough decision 
to not increase the health fee, because the re-quest would be denied once it reached the state level. Also, the committee's decision doesn't af-fect the hiring of 12 new mental health counsel-ors over three years, as UF's provost will supply funding until a permanent source is secured.
I'm angry there isn’t more funding for the CWC, but instead of pointlessly directing my an-ger at students on the local fee committee, I’m angry with UF administration for allowing this.
Why are basic student services not funded 
by the thousands of dollars I pay to UF each 
year? Why has UF allowed for this by letting the 
CWC to remain insufﬁ  ciently funded?
I encourage all students in SG, from both 
parties, to work together to secure permanent funding from UF to increase the CWC's staff. 
Preston Jones is a  UF political science 
senior.I read an article the other day on several interesting cases that could make their way to the Supreme Court in the coming months. One in particular caught my eye: 
Garza v. Hargan. This case involves a 17-year-old illegal immigrant, referred to as Jane Doe in court documents, who is currently detained in Texas. She arrived in the U.S. pregnant, and has since demanded an abortion.
Under Texas law, a minor cannot get an abor-
tion without consent from a parent or guardian. Doe has neither, but a state court ruled she could 
get an abortion without parental consent. The 
federal government, through the Department of Health and Human Services, placed Doe in a shel-ter with the Ofﬁ  ce of Refugee Resettlement and was prohibiting the shelter from releasing her from custody to get the abortion. 
Today, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. 
Circuit ruled Doe is entitled to an abortion with-out delay. 
The truth is she was entitled to get her abor-
tion weeks ago. As the federal government ar-gued, nothing was stopping Doe from leaving the facility and the country on her own accord, where she would have been free to get an abortion. As an illegal immigrant, is there any statute or prec-edent entitling her to an abortion in the United States? Proponents of Doe’s cause would point to Roe v. Wade, which would likely (and unfortu-
nately) apply in this scenario because Doe is in 
the United States. Aside from all the legal ques-tions, of which there are many, there is a greater question: Why should we pay for women’s abor-tions? 
Who is paying for Doe’s abortion? In a way, 
we might be. Do you really think an illegal im-migrant who just crossed the border several weeks ago is going to pay for her own abortion? 
It’s extremely unlikely. In fact, immigration status aside, do you think most lower income 
women in the U.S. are paying for their own abortions? Think again. That’s where you and I come in with our tax dollars. According to Forbes, taxpay-
ers directly fund 24 percent of the na-
tion’s abortion costs, through the state and federal governments. The other 76 percent  is funded from private groups such as Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood receives more than half a 
billion dollars per year from the federal govern-ment. Doe’s lawyers at the ACLU stated that “pri-vate funds” would be provided for her abortion. 
That may be the case, but if these “private funds” 
came from a group like Planned Parenthood, a group that has spoken out in defense of Doe, then taxpayers are still indirectly involved.   
Whether we like it, taxpayers are directly and 
indirectly funding abortions. I personally ﬁ  nd this to be reprehensible and unacceptable. Roe v. Wade grants women the right to have abor-tions, but it doesn’t grant them the right to have 
free abortions. If you want to abort your child, 
could you do it on your own dime? I’d prefer not to contribute. 
In its ﬁ  rst few months, the Trump adminis-
tration has already made signiﬁ  cant decisions to protect life. My hope is the administration goes further, by ending the direct and indirect use of taxpayer dollars for abortions. Feminists would probably claim their rights are being taken away. 
This is simply false. The fact is Roe v. Wade is the 
law of the land, and that is unlikely to change. Restricting funding for abortions is not the same as restricting access, which women will undoubt-edly still have. The only caveat? A woman would have to pay for her own decision. Imagine that. Is this really too much to ask? 
Eduardo Neret is a UF ﬁ  nance senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays. 
Why should we pay for people’s abortions?Column
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
‘Kiss Me, Kate’:
The broadway hit comes to UF this month (pg. 10)Worldly cuisine: 
The best food from around the world in Gainesville (pg. 9)By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
A popular American rapper will 
make his third Gainesville appear-
ance in two years Thursday.
In February 2016, High Dive in-
troduced Waka Flocka Flame to the 
Gainesville music scene where he 
shared the stage with several local DJs and performers. That October, UF invited the rapper to perform at the annual Gator Growl concert alongside Timeﬂ  ies and Passion Pit on Flavet Field.
Just over a year later, Tau Epsilon 
Phi fraternity, colloquially known as TEP, is responsible for Flocka’s re-turn hosted by Simon’s Nightclub. 
The rapper, who is best known for 
the 2010 hit “No Hands,” will be joined by his label mate, DJ Whoo Kid. The remaining support lineup is to be announced according to the event page on Facebook.
Thursday’s concert is cospon-
sored by event promotions company GDM Live, who reached out to TEP about bringing Flocka to Simon’s.
TEP brother and UF student Ben 
Pawliger, a 21-year-old international 
business graduate student, said the 
fraternity has had several big names come to Gainesville to perform, in-cluding YesJulz and Aaron Carter during his freshman year.
“We are all really excited. There 
are a lot of great things that come with being in a fraternity, but stuff like this is icing on the cake,” Pawl-
iger said. “I don’t know why you 
would be anywhere else this Thurs-day night.”
The concert will begin at 10 p.m. 
at Simon’s South Main Street loca-tion and will be open to partygo-ers 18 and older. Tickets have been selling rapidly, and according to the event page, interested parties should 
hurry to purchase tickets because 
there will only be a limited number sold. 
General admission tickets are 
$29.99, while VIP tickets are $34.99 and offer front-of-line access. Both can be found at GDMLive.com.Photo by Emma Witmer. 
(From left) Robbie Kingsley, Zach Levy, Dylan McCue and 
Franco Solari of The Hails. (Not pictured: Andre Escobar)
Courtesy to The Alligator.
This will be the rapper’s third Gainesville appearance.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF Fraternity Tau Epsilon Phi to bring Waka Flocka Flame
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Surfer Blood and The Hails are 
coming to High Dive on Thursday 
night to play rock music and 2017 
releases.
The downtown venue’s doors 
will open Thursday night at 8 p.m., 
and the show begins at 9 p.m. Tick-ets are available through Ticketﬂ  y 
for $13 in advance and $15 on the 
day of the show. Concertgoers un-der 21 must pay a $3 convenience fee, and minors must be accompa-nied by a guardian.
Surfer Blood, a West Palm 
Beach native indie rock quartet, re-
leased their fourth album, “Snow-
donia,” in February. The Hails, on the other hand, are relatively new to the Gainesville music scene, but they’re on the rise.
In just two years as a band, 
The Hails have gone from playing at house parties and tailgates to performing on a local Miami tele-vision station and opening for the 
Plain White T’s this past weekend 
at Emory University. The ﬁ  ve-piece alternative rock group began play-ing together in 2015 and played their ﬁ  rst venue in January 2016, 
also at High Dive.
The Hails’ writing process isn’t overly structured. Lead singer Rob-bie Kingsley called it “spontane-
ous creativity.” When the guys 
are avoiding practice, one mem-
ber may contribute an original ar-rangement that blossoms into The 
Hails’ next single, explained gui-
tarist Dylan McCue. The group is always working on new music and currently has 20 new tracks in the works, according to drummer Zach 
Levy.
“We had to sort of graduate to 
a new level,” McCue said. “Once 
we had enough conﬁ  dence in our original songs, that’s when we got serious.”
The Hails were originally 
known for covering their favorite artists, but in July the group re-leased their ﬁ  rst extended play, “Impel.” The offering features their fan-favorite single “Parking Lot,” 
which received much more atten-
tion than McCue expected. The single received over 2,000 views in less than 48 hours.
“I went to a concert (the night of 
the release),” McCue said. “When I looked at my phone after, I had tons of DMs and texts from people saying they loved the music.”
“Impel” was recorded with pro-
ducer Bobby MacIntyre at his ec-centric house studio, Studio 71, in Miami. Guitarist Franco Solari 
remembers the studio full of red 
and velvet with peacocks roaming 
around outside.
The band plans to continue 
their music far into the future. While Kingsley now has dreams 
of headlining festivals one day, he wasn’t always sure he wanted to pursue music.
“I thought it was a pipe dream 
until I met Zach,” Kingsley said. “I don’t ever want to feel like I’ve made it. I want to keep rising.”
If one thing is certain, The Hails 
are a tight-knit group with count-less stories to back them up. Their personal relationships transfer into 
the energy of their performances. 
Kingsley remembers a show when a group of fans began to chant the famous tune of “Seven Nation Army,” and the band just went 
with it, despite not having played 
the song in months.
Levy warns fans to “expect the 
unexpected” at Thursday night’s show. Spontaneous moments like 
these are favorites for the band and 
what they call the magic of live shows.
“See live music wherever you 
are,” McCue said. “Support your 
local rock band. That’s our best 
ally — whoever reads this article.”Surfer Blood and The Hails to hit High Dive this week 
MUSICWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
By T aylor McLamb 
Avenue Writer
Life is too short to be a picky eater. By try-
ing food from unfamiliar places, you gain a 
better understanding and appreciation for dif-ferent customs around the world, leaving you more culturally aware, empathetic and satis-
fyingly full. Gainesville is a ﬂ  avorful, diverse 
melting-pot composed of people from all over the world, and it’s only ﬁ  tting to have our res-taurants reﬂ  ect that. All located within a 2-mile radius from UF, a variety of restaurants were handpicked where Gainesville residents can enjoy authentic worldly cuisine without hav-ing to trek far.
Crane Ramen: 16 SW First Ave.
Crane Ramen brings a taste of Japan to 
downtown Gainesville. While anyone can go to the nearest supermarket and buy ramen in bulk, Crane Ramen has made a name for itself serving fresh, affordable ramen that makes you feel as if you’re dining in a high-end Japanese restaurant. For those who have never tried 
ramen, the menu is simple and affordable. 
There’s a variety of delicious otsumami (ap-petizers) you can choose from, as well as an assortment of seven $12 ramen dishes to get you started on your culinary journey.
Suggestions: As someone who has only eat-
en store-bought ramen, the market veggie miso was the perfect ﬁ  rst dip into the world of real ramen noodles.
Reggae Shack Cafe: 619 W University 
Ave.
Since opening on Sept. 18, 2003, Reggae 
Shack Cafe has quickly made itself a legend within the local community. Jamaican-born restaurateur and chef Omar Oselimo said the restaurant prides itself in serving only the freshest ingredients, purchasing from local vendors for the most quality organic and GMO-free products. “When you go to a bunch of res-taurants and they’re using the same products that everyone else is using — pre-packaged, pre-mixed stuff — the chefs don’t really have 
any control over the ﬂ  avor,” said Oselimo. 
“There’s really not much you can do to it when it’s already prepared that way, so are you truly expressing yourself as a chef? It’s important to me to keep it unique and just do something that I know that my competitors might be able mimic, might be able emulate, but they’ll nev-er be able to make it like how I make it.”
Suggestions: Oselimo recommends the 
brown stew ﬁ  sh, a fresh snapper fried crispy and then simmered in a sweet brown stew sauce with vegetables and Scotch bonnet pep-pers. It’s a dish that he feels best represents his experience growing up in rural Jamaica.
Tamal: 439 S Main St.
Tamal is the type of restaurant where ev-
eryone who goes to eat there wishes they dis-covered it years earlier. The line is usually out 
the door due to the rising popularity of the res-
taurant and their ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-serve basis. Because they primarily make tamales, a tra-ditional Mexican dish made of seasoned meat ﬁ  lling wrapped in a cornmeal dough, entirely from scratch, their hours are limited. Tamal’s menu is constantly adding new items, which is why it’s good to check their Facebook for any changes as the restaurant is interactive with 
their customers and fans.
Suggestions: You can’t beat what they’re 
known for; the veg tamale, which is stuffed 
with poblano, cheddar and tomato, is a deli-cious gateway into the world of tamales and a winner for vegetarians as well.
Flaco’s Cuban Bakery: 200 W University 
Ave.
While Flaco’s always attracts a horde, 
they’ve become a fan favorite for the late-night crowd as well. Why grab some generic fast-food after a long night when you could opt for some delicious Cuban fare at Flaco’s, which is open until 2:30 a.m.? Justin Kurian, a 26-year-old UF biochemistry and molecular biology graduate student, said it’s the perfect place to go for rich, savory Cuban food late at night, plus, it’s the only place open that’s not sell-
ing pizza. “In Gainesville alone, I don’t know 
if there is another place like Flaco’s that has the same kind of sandwiches, the same kind of pastries,” said Kurian. From freshly pressed sandwiches to Cuban coffee, Flaco’s can be a much-needed start to your morning or the per-fect end to your night.
Suggestions: Kurian recommends their 
famous quesito, a pastry ﬁ  lled with cream 
cheese.
Alpin Bistro: 15 SW 2nd St.
When customers come to eat at Alpin 
Bistro it’s almost as if they’re teleported to a 
quaint, bustling restaurant in the burrows of France. At Alpin, they still make sure to cel-ebrate and give back to Gainesville, while add-ing in authentic French traditions and delica-cies. All of their chocolate, cheese, meat, beer 
and wine are carefully selected and imported 
from France, while their bread and produce come from Gainesville bakeries and farms. Elizabeth Cobb, a 23-year-old UF psychology alumna, said she chose to try the restaurant because she was looking for a place to eat that didn’t have the stereotypical college sports bar atmosphere. Cobb said the food immediately exceeded her expectations. “They had a nice 
selection of wines and a good variety of foods,” 
Cobb said. “It was delicious, and I would deﬁ  -nitely go back.”
Suggestions: Cobb recommends trying their 
bacon red pepper quiche. However, because Alpin Bistro makes everything fresh every day, the menu is constantly evolving.
Sababa: 101 SE Second Place
Sababa owners Riley and Yael Goldstein 
stick to their Israeli roots by serving dishes genuine to their home country. Misty Kar, a 23-year-old UF neurobiological science alum-na, said she appreciates the authenticity of the food, stating that she goes there because it does a good job at being ﬂ  avorful and affordable. “One thing I really hate is when restaurants di-lute the taste to make it seem less exotic, but I feel like Sababa didn’t do that,” Kar said. Sa-
baba reinforces this notion by allowing people 
to taste Israel in every bite. “Food is a huge part of every culture and respecting that builds respect for the culture itself, so having different representations helps to create a shared expe-rience,” Kar said. “I know that, personally, a place feels more like home if I feel represented there.”
Suggestions: Kar recommends the chicken 
shawarma, which, according to Sababa’s menu, is a diced chicken breast sautéed with a special blend of Israeli seasoning, served with a pita and your choice of a side and salad.
Beque Holic: 3812 W Newberry Road
At Beque Holic, more is merrier and shar-
ing is a part of the experience. According to their website, the restaurant can accommodate up to 200 people, serving the freshest meats 
for their all-you-can-eat Korean barbecue. 
Flora Mae Haberkorn, a 22-year-old UF eco-nomics senior, said she chose to eat at Beque Holic as one of her last meals before traveling to study abroad in China because she wanted to compare it to Korean barbecue in Beijing. “Compared to the two Korean barbecue places I went in Beijing, it is really similar,” Haber-korn said. “They could probably open up in 
Beijing and the main change they would only 
have to do is their drink menu.” Haberkorn stressed not only is their food delicious, but it’s the intimacy of sharing authentic Korean food that makes her feel nostalgic for Asian culture. “Individuality when eating is almost never the case, it’s always about sharing with everyone at the table,” said Haberkorn.
Suggestions: Haberkorn advises to get the 
all-you-can-eat menu and bring a group of people. According to their website, there are three menu options, each with a variety of dif-ferent meats to cook and taste. For a side dish, Haberkorn recommends the kimchi side and their ﬂ  avorful pork belly.
The 7 best worldly, authentic restaurants in Gainesville 10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Contributing Writer
You know a film is going to be 
terrible when the director explains 
what went wrong before the film is 
even released.
A few days before “The Snow-
man” premiered, director Tomas 
Alfredson, whose credits include 
“Let the Right One In” and “Tin-
ker Tailor Soldier Spy,” admitted in an interview with the Norwe-gian Broadcasting Corporation that 10 to 15 percent of the story 
wasn’t filmed due to limited shoot-
ing time.  
Universal and Working Title, 
the film’s production partners, 
were likely hoping for another 
Scandinavian noir hit film, similar to David Fincher’s hit “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.”
Unfortunately, “The Snowman” 
turns into a crime yarn that leaves audiences scratching their heads at the convoluted plot.
Adapted from Jo Nesbø’s best-
selling series about detective Harry Hole (yes, the character’s name is actually Harry Hole), “The Snow-man” may be the worst film of the year.
The film centers around Harry 
Hole (Michael Fassbender), the typical troubled, genius detective with a few vices. When not drink-ing himself into a stupor, Hole oc-casionally shows up for work at the 
Oslo police station where he sulks 
around with a pack of cigarettes.
One day, Hole receives a cryptic 
letter written in block letters and signed with an image of a snow-
man that looks as if a child drew it.
Soon after receiving the letter, 
a young mother is reported miss-
ing. Hole teams up with detective 
Katrine Bratt (Rebecca Ferguson) 
to solve her disappearance. Hole seems convinced that the husband is to blame, but Bratt believes the disappearance is related to a series 
of similar cases that involve young 
mothers disappearing.
Hole and Bratt expand their 
investigation and quickly realize 
that a serial killer is on the loose. 
Of course, the serial killer has a unique calling card: Snowmen built outside each victim’s home.
While trying to unravel the 
frosty mystery, Hole’s personal life is falling apart. Hole has a com-plicated relationship with his ex-girlfriend, Rakel (Charlotte Gains-
bourg), and her teenage son, Oleg 
(Michael Yates). Rakel still cares for Hole and Oleg views him as a quasi-father figure, but Hole begins to neglect them as he becomes en-
wrapped in the case.
The serial killer starts to get per-
sonal, and it’s left to Hole and Bratt to piece together cold cases with 
the new ones to solve the mystery.
The problematic storytelling, 
unlikeable protagonist and id-iosyncratic cameos make “The Snowman” painful to watch. For example, the flashback scenes of 
Val Kilmer (who is almost unrecog-
nizable from his “Top Gun” days) playing a bloated, drunk detec-tive are just bizarre. Kilmer barely 
speaks, and his lines have been 
poorly dubbed over by another actor that doesn’t remotely sound like him.
Audiences might have trouble 
fathoming how “The Snowman” turned into such a mess given the star power of the cast and the tal-ented people who worked on the 
film, including executive producer 
Martin Scorsese and Oscar-winning editor Thelma Schoonmaker.
The only redeeming parts of the 
film are the beautiful scenery shots 
of Norway and the infamous “MIS-
TER POLICE” letter being used to create hilarious memes.
I truly hope that Tomas Alfred-
son will recover from “The Snow-man,” but it might take awhile to rally back from a film with an 8 percent on Rotten Tomatoes.
Fans of Michael Fassbender may 
enjoy this snowy romp, but other-wise, “The Snowman” melts faster than Frosty come spring thaw. Review: “The Snowman” snowballs into a slushy mess 
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Fans of the hit Broadway sen-
sation “Kiss Me, Kate” will be able to experience the show for the next two weekends courtesy 
of UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance. The cast will perform the Tony Award-winning musical at the Constans Theatre, while in celebration of the theater’s own 
50th anniversary.
According to the press release,  
“Kiss Me, Kate” was created after 
Arnold Saintsubber, who would 
later go on to become a Tony 
Award-winning Broadway pro-ducer, was inspired by both on-stage and offstage feuds between actors Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne while they created a 
1935 rendition of “Taming of the 
Shrew.” The original “Kiss Me, Kate” debuted in December 1948 
and has endured as a beloved mu-
sical since. The musical has been produced on Broadway as well as in countries like England, Austra-lia and more.
UF’s rendition of the musical is 
directed by Tony Mata and is un-der the musical direction of new faculty member Matt Morgan. 
The two hope to “bring comedy, 
music and laughter to new audi-ences and theater connoisseurs alike,” according to the press re-lease.
Tyler Peterson, a 20-year-old 
UF student pursuing a combined degree in theatre and a master of science in management, will star 
in “Kiss Me, Kate” as the role of 
General Harrison Howell. Peter-son said that the audition process was extremely fun but nerve-wracking.
“During the callbacks they 
taught us a dance combination rapidly and had us sing cuts of 
different music,” Peterson said. 
“Overall it was a great experi-ence.”
Peterson stressed that while 
the cast has been preparing non-stop for the show, the real back-bone of the production goes to the background crew.
“The crew is the real heart of 
this production,” Peterson said. 
“Our stage management team has 
been working tirelessly day and night to create an awesome expe-rience.”The musical, which is an ad-
aptation of Shakespeare’s “Tam-
ing of the Shrew,” is undoubtedly 
an abiding classic, which pairs well with the timelessness of the Constans Theatre on its 50th an-niversary.
“The 50th anniversary of the 
Constans is a huge deal for the theatre community,” Peterson said. “For 50 years, UF’s theatre 
department has been entertaining 
the community while acting as a training grounds for young artists to grow.”
Peterson said “Kiss Me, Kate,” 
which was created in the ‘40s, embodies the Golden Age of Broadway and isn’t too topical in any sense. He added that the 
production is the perfect way for 
audience members to just have a good time and enjoy themselves.
“People can expect to have a 
lot of fun, that’s for sure,” Peter-
son said. “There’s lots of catchy 
songs and wacky characters — something for everyone.”
“Kiss Me, Kate” will be show-
ing at the Constans Theatre at 7:30 p.m. Oct. 27 to 28, Oct. 31 to Nov. 4 and at 2 p.m. Oct. 29 and Nov. 5. The show will be $18 for the general public, $15 for se-
niors, $15 for UF faculty and staff 
and $13 for students. School of Theatre and Dance to perform “Kiss Me, Kate”Photo via IMDb.
“The Snowman” premiered on Oct. 20 to dismal reviews.
Courtesy to The Alligator.
(From left) Lauren Robinson and Thomas Nightingale will star in the UF School of Theatre and 
Dance rendition of “Kiss Me, Kate. ”
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.w1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.
Family business in Alachua.
Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      
10-27-17-7-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.
The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 - 20 hours / week. Fast & accurate typ-
ing required. Send resume to combehserv@
gmail.com    10-30-17-5-14
Elder and special needs law firm seek-
ing a receptionist for a part-time position. Candidate should be familiar with Microsoft Office, be comfortable on the phone, and have reliable transportation. Please email resume and cover letter to amandam@millerelderlawfirm.com.     10-30-17-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. SCIENCE: What is the first ele-
ment on the Periodic Table?
2. MYTHOLOGY: What was the 
name of King Arthur’s sword?
3. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in 
our solar system has the most moons?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Which U.S. state 
is host to the Mount Rushmore Nation-
al Memorial?
5. CHEMISTRY: What two elements 
is the alloy bronze usually made of?
6. GAMES: In Scrabble, what is the 
value of the letter Z?
7. U.S. STATES: What is the capital 
of Hawaii?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How 
many time zones are in the world?
9. GOVERNMENT: How many 
electors are in the U.S. Electoral Col-lege?
10. INVENTIONS: Where was 
inventor Alexander Graham Bell 
born?
Answers
1. Hydrogen2. Excalibur3. Jupiter with at least 674. South Dakota5. Copper and tin
6. 10 points
7. Honolulu8. More than 249. 53810. Scotland
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 23, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 10/30- 11/2 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.   10-30-17-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
ACROSS
1 Bunches of bucks
5 Strip of
latticework
9 Expels
14 For each one15 Jackson 5 hair
style
16 IV part17 Stacy Lewis’ org.18 Severely harm
19 Use, as for a
snooze
20 “Well, __-di-dah!”
21 Finishing a
sentence?
23 In the air25 Ancient Peruvian26 “Fresh Air” airer27 Diagram on a
golf score card
31 Attachment to a
movable sprinkler
32 Divinity school
subj.
33 John Irving title
writer
36 Romantically
involved with
38 Oscar Mayer
product
40 “And she shall
bring forth __”:Matthew
41 Bordeaux
brushoff
42 Co. known for
music
compilations
44 Bad news for
subway riders
48 VW preceders?51 Fabric mishap
52 Grecian urn
glorifier, e.g.
53 Grammatically,
“have” in “I havespoken,” e.g.
57 Letters between
mus and xis
58 Ball co-star
59 Revered Tibetan
60 Paltry
61 Author Kafka or
composer Liszt
62 City west of
Tulsa
63 Neck of the
woods
64 Short-tempered65 College Board
exams, for short
66 Wordless
summonsDOWN
1 Character actor
Eli who often 
co-starred with
his wife AnneJackson
2 Horse with a
spotted coat
3 Backyard pet
shelters
4 Massage venue5 Unconvincing, as
excuses go
6 A long way off
7 Barely worth
mentioning
8 Grits, essentially
9 Dashboard
indicator
10 Textbook division11 Oktoberfest
keepsake
12 Beat the pants off13 More reasonable21 GPS lines22 Cpl., for one24 No longer
encumbered by
28 South end?29 Journey segment30 Did terribly34 Orthodontic
devices35 Lays a guilt trip
on, say
37 Nervously
distracted
38 Took the title
39 Business abbr.41 State of bliss43 “Dinner!” ... and a
hint to the firstword of 21-, 27-,44- and 53-Across
45 Stimpy’s sidekick46 NFC East team47 Take the wrong
way?
48 Unfair treatment,
with “the”
49 __ Haute50 Forearm bones54 Breathe hard55 Give off56 X-ray units60 27-Across,
essentially
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/25/1710/25/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 25, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 eBay sale
condition
5 Nasal spray, e.g.
9 Guiding values of
a group
14 Funnyman Jay
15 Actress Falco of
“Law & Order
True Crime: TheMenendezMurders”
16 Bench-clearing
fight
17 Indonesian resort
island
18 Big commotion
20 Assists with a
felony
22 River near the
Egyptian
pyramids
23 Podcast
interruptions
24 Taxable profit
26 Julep ingredient28 It has only two
possible answers
33 Enjoy a pizza,
say
34 Summer shades
35 Hosp. diagnostic
chamber
36 Performs like
Drake
39 Have a bug
40 Pedal pushers41 Lifeboat mover42 Like cellars,
typically
44 “The Blacklist”
government agcy.
46 Start of a
teaching momentfrom grandpa
52 Australian isl.
state
53 Chose from a
menu
54 Refuse to share55 Imitated58 Hindu sage59 Showing
embarrassment... or what thecircles in threepuzzle answersare literally doing
62 Not much
63 Thorny plant64 Like eyesores65 Snippet of poetry66 Platform for a
play
67 Get ready for a
selfie
68 __-back: relaxedDOWN
1 Hudson River
capital
2 Naval construction
worker
3 Shoreline
recesses
4 “C’est la vie”
5 “I’m not
impressed”
6 “Beats me”
7 iPad voice-
activated app
8 Reveal
9 Fade away
10 One playing
hooky
11 Difficulty, with “a”12 Birds that can
rotate their heads
about 270degrees
13 Sneaky19 Red Sea republic21 Lee of desserts25 QB’s flub
27 Magazine unit:
Abbr.
29 Ear cleaners
30 Carrier whose
largest hub isO’Hare: Abbr.
31 Mine extraction32 Petty peeve36 Information on a
Broadway ticket37 Satisfied sigh
38 University of
South Africa city
39 Org. for docs40 Computer network
security system
42 Bad-mouth43 “Oh, drat!”44 Word on a gift tag45 Future blossoms
47 “Get off my back!”
48 Alpine songs
49 “Lawrence of __”50 The Twins of the
Zodiac
51 Worked on text
54 Injured56 PC key used for
scrolling
57 “Logically, ... ”
59 Channel formerly
called“Superstation”
60 Fury
61 Just For Men
product
By C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/24/1710/24/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 24, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Not fair
1.  Optimistic 5.  ____ ride
2.  Mixed up6.  Hideouts 
3.  Frasier’s view7.  Strangest 
4.  Apple varietyJSUTNU
ABEPTUMYBPU
RSLIA
MUEDLJB
NSLYKEIEDDTSO
UESTRSANSWERS: 1A-Unjust  5A-Bumpy  6A-Lairs  7A-Oddest
1D-Upbeat  2D-Jumbled  3D-Skyline  4D-Russet  B-Blue jeans10-25-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ were invented in 1871
and patented in 1873.
BONUS15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFreshman John Axelsen 
helped the Gators men's golf team tie for second in its ﬁ  nal tournament of the fall season. Read the story, pg. 15. Correction from Monday's paper
A story about the UF women's tennis team on Monday incorrectly stated 
that the team played a tournament in Atlanta. The women's ITA Southeast Regionals were actually played in Athens, Georgia. The men's team competed in Atlanta. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Jeremiah Moon knows how 
important a win on Saturday is.
“That would be big, (a) big 
season changer,” Moon, a red-
shirt freshman linebacker, said Tuesday. 
“I know a lot of people are 
doubting us right now, so it’s up to us to prove everybody wrong.”
And while the present favors 
the Bulldogs, Florida has history on its side. 
The Gators (3-3, 3-2 SEC) have 
won their last three showdowns in Jacksonville. But this matchup will likely be more difﬁ  cult for 
Florida, which enters Saturday's 
game against Georgia as a two-touchdown underdog carrying consecutive home losses.
None of that matters to receiv-
er Josh Hammond, who on Mon-day said UF is feeling as conﬁ  dent as always.
“Georgia isn’t a team that we 
lose to,” Hammond said. “That’s the message in the locker room right now: They might be the (No. 3) team in the country, but they can’t beat Florida.”
In part, Hammond is right. 
Florida has won 21 of its last 27 matchups with the Bulldogs. The last couple of games haven’t been 
close, either. Since 2014, Florida 
has beaten Georgia by an aver-age of more than 18 points. But heading into this year’s game, the Gators are missing the key play-
makers who helped them earn that win streak over the Bulldogs 
(7-0, 4-0 SEC).
In 2014, it was Kelvin Taylor 
and Matt Jones each rushing for two touchdowns and more than 190 yards. In 2015, it was Taylor again, scoring two touchdowns and rushing for more than 120 
yards while receiver Antonio Call-
away added a score and 110 yards receiving. In 2016, it was Calla-way, running back Jordan Scar-lett and quarterback Luke Del Rio leading the way for Florida, each 
scoring their own touchdowns.
In 2017, the Gators don’t have 
Taylor or Jones. Del Rio is out 
for the season after breaking his collarbone. And Callaway and Scarlett are still suspended for involvement in an alleged case of credit card fraud. With history on their side, Gators have no fear of Georgia
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
I’ve always been someone who tries to give 
people the beneﬁ  t of the doubt.
It’s what’s fair. It’s what’s right.
If my roommate — who absolutely loves 
Krispy Kreme — swears to me he didn’t eat my box of glazed doughnuts, despite the fact it’s now missing from the fridge, I’ll take what he says at face value.
I’d want to be treated the same way if I 
were in his shoes, after all.
However, if someone casually mentions 
that people are threatening to kill their loved ones, then backtracks when questioned about it by refusing to elaborate, then admits they haven’t contacted law enforcement, and then — several hours later — are the subject of a public statement that says they failed to provide any evidence of the threats to their employer behind closed doors, I can’t help but feel slightly skepti-cal.
Jim McElwain, you have some 
explaining to do.
McElwain, the third-year 
coach of Florida’s football team, added onto the dumpster ﬁ  re that’s been UF’s 2017 season on Monday by doing everything I just listed in the run-on sentence two para-graphs above.After being asked whether his 
assistant coaches deserve credit for remaining resilient this year, McElwain responded by noncha-lantly dropping an unprompted bombshell.
He told reporters his family 
has received “death threats” in the wake of UF’s 3-3 start to its schedule and even chuckled, stat-ing it was “a pretty good testa-
ment to what’s going on out there nationally.”
When peppered with follow-up questions, 
however, the 55-year-old coach’s demeanor changed. His face sunk, a half-smile disap-pearing from his lips as he declined to give any further detail on the disturbing claim he just made.
“It is what it is” he sheepishly muttered 
while he shook his head, refusing to provide any more context to the situation.
Shortly after the news conference end-
ed, the University Athletic Association then stepped into the fray, releasing a statement that didn’t exactly stand behind the leader of its football program:
“The University Athletic Association takes 
the safety of our student-athletes, coaches, staff and families very seriously. Our administration 
How legitimate is UF coach Jim McElwain's claim about death threats?You’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixonAlligator File Photo
Last season, the Gators won their third consecutive game against the Bulldogs. This year, the Florida is just as confident despite entering the matchup as a two-touchdown underdog and not having players like receiver Antonio Callaway (81) to rely on. 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
After Round 2 of UF’s final fall tournament, 
Florida was in position to make a push for the 
lead. The men’s golf team held sole possession of second place and sat only two strokes be-
hind the leader, Illinois.
But during the final round on Tuesday, 
the Gators struggled, posting a team score of 
4 over, and they were unable to seize control of the lead. Florida finished tied for second at the Tavistock Collegiate Invitational in Wind-ermere, Florida.
In the final day of play, the Fighting Illini 
struggled even more than UF did, carding a 
6-over round that allowed the California Gold-
en Bears to win the tournament, while Illinois ended up tied with the Gators for second place. Florida had a chance to send it to a playoff, but fell one stroke short of California in the end.
“What an exciting way to end the fall,” 
coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. “Somehow our guys managed to get in the hunt down the stretch. We had far from our best stuff, but we 
never quit. That attitude paid off and we were 
one shot shy of a playoff.”
Freshman John Axelsen and junior Gordon 
Neale posted solid numbers of 2 under and 1 under, respectively, on Tuesday. Both finished in the top five, with Axelsen in third and Neale in fourth.
Senior Alejandro Tosti played respectably 
in the first two rounds, but didn’t perform 
nearly as well on Tuesday, as he was 4 over for 
the day. Tosti has yet to come close to his per-formance in the season-opening Carpet Capi-tal Invitational, where he won the individual championship.
Freshman Chris Nido posted another 3-over round on Sunday, while redshirt sophomore Blake Dyer was 5 over. Nido finished tied for 44th, while Dyer finished tied for 84th.
Although there are certainly positive take-
aways from this tournament, such as the play of Axelsen, who returned from a one-tourna-
ment absence, Florida was once again in a po-
sition to vie for the lead after Day 2 and failed to do so.
While a tie for second is far from the worst-
case scenario for the Gators, they will look for more consistency and stronger finishes as they head into the break if they still wish to contend for a national title, as Deacon has expressed in the past.
“We need this offseason to get everyone 
completely settled and focused on growth,” Deacon said. “We have an extremely talented team, but we need to dedicate ourselves to patience, hard work and emotional control. Those championship qualities will determine our ceiling.”
 @TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
Florida Individual Results:
• John Axelsen (-7) 3rd
• Gordon Neale (-6) 4th
• Alejandro T osti (+2) T25th
• Chris Nido (+6) T44th
• Blake Dyer (+19) T84thFlorida finishes tied for second in final fall tournament
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Between the All-Florida Invitational 
and a double meet with Texas and Indi-
ana, the Gators had 25 days of rest. For  their next competition, they got four.
UF’s men’s and women’s swimming 
and diving teams will face the Crimson Tide at 3 p.m. today in Tuscaloosa, Ala-bama. Florida is looking to shake off its struggles from last weekend’s Texas/In-diana meets, when the Gators picked up just one win out of a possible four. 
“We put up some good performanc-
es against some really top-tier teams,” coach Gregg Troy said in a release. “No one remembers what happens in October when we get to March, so we just need to learn and improve.” 
The meet against Alabama will be 
both teams’ first meets on the road, where the Gators struggled last year. UF’s men’s team went 4-5 on the road in individual meets, while the women’s team went 4-7. 
It will also be the first time Florida 
races Alabama since the 2013-14 sea-son, when the UF men’s team won with a score of 169-123, and its women won with a score of 179-113. 
This year, the Gators enter the meet 
with their men’s team ranked No. 4 in the country and women’s team ranked No. 18. 
For comparison, Alabama’s men’s 
team is currently ranked No. 13 in the nation, while its women’s team is un-ranked.
The Crimson Tide come into today 
having raced in one regular-season meet. 
They traveled to Cleveland, Mississippi, 
to race Delta State on Sept. 15 in a victory 
for both the men’s and women’s squads. 
Just two days after Florida’s men’s 
and women’s teams race against Ala-
bama, the Gators will come back to 
Gainesville to host the Georgia Bulldogs, 
another SEC rival.
“It’ll be busy, but it’s what we like to 
do,” sophomore Kelly Fertel said. “We’ll 
go to Alabama, come back, have a home 
meet with Georgia, which will be another 
good one. It’s exciting stuff, and I don’t 
think we mind, necessarily. It’s just an-other opportunity.”
Assistant coach Leah Stancil looks at 
both meets as a way to hone skills for the teams.
“Racing tough, being aggressive, 
swimming races correctly in terms of 
splits,” Stancil said, “it’ll help us with 
our feedback in terms of training.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgUF men’s, women’s teams 
to race today at Alabama
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The Gators are beginning to bounce back 
from their biggest disappointment of the season. 
After a three-week run as the nation’s top-
ranked team — and its only undefeated team — 
the No. 4 Gators (16-1, 8-1 SEC) suffered their 
first loss following an offensive onslaught by then-No. 8 Kentucky.
“You can see why we voted Kentucky num-
ber one in the league,” coach Mary Wise said af-ter the Oct. 15 home loss. “They have the most talent in the league. They’re very, very good.”
While Florida’s defense was roasted by the 
Wildcats, it has been the Gators’ backbone 
throughout the season, and currently ranks 
among the NCAA’s top 10 in blocks and oppo-nent hitting percentage.
During last weekend’s road trip to the state 
of Alabama, Florida’s stifling defense returned to form.
The Gators held Alabama and Auburn to a 
combined .089 hitting percentage, a significant improvement from Kentucky’s .309 clip.
Friday night’s sweep kept Wise’s perfect 
record against the Tide intact. UF’s coach now holds a 42-0 record against Alabama and im-proved to 42-1 against Auburn.
Florida returns to the O’Connell Center on 
Friday to take on South Carolina and travels to Starkville on Sunday to face Mississippi State.
 Gators getting solid individual play:
After collecting a team-high 13 blocks against Alabama and Auburn, senior middle blocker 
Rhamat Alhassan was named SEC Co-Defensive Player of the Week. For the season, Alhassan’s 
1.72 blocks per set leads the SEC and ranks third 
in the nation.
Alhassan also had three digs against Ala-
bama, including one in which the 6-foot-4 se-nior laid out in front of the net to keep a rally alive, leading to a Florida point.
Three other Gators were instrumental in UF’s 
winning weekend. Senior Carli Snyder, Florida’s team-leader in points scored this season, aver-
aged 12 kills and 14.5 digs against the Tide and 
the Tigers. Snyder capped off her strong week-end with an error-free performance at Auburn that included three service aces. Snyder leads the SEC in service aces per set, and sits at ninth in the NCAA in that category.
Sophomore Rachael Kramer recorded 25 kills 
with just two errors over the weekend, hitting an efficient .535 in the process. Kramer’s season 
average of .442 ranks sixth in the country.
“She just keeps getting better and adding 
new wrinkles to the offense,” Wise said. “She’s 
becoming such a complete player so early in her career.”
Against the Tigers on Sunday, redshirt senior 
Shainah Joseph led all players with 13 kills. Jo-seph committed just one error in the match and finished with a blistering .632 hitting percent-
age.
A video posted to FloridaGators.com contrib-
uted to this report.              
     @AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgGators continue to improve 
following season’s first loss
Alligator File Photo
Alejandro T osti shot 2 over and tied for 25th at the T avistock Collegiate Invita-
tional, Florida’s final tournament of the fall. UF, as a team, finished tied for second.
VOLLEYBALL NOTEBOOKGOLF
SWIMMING16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2017
Beyond missing their best Bull-
dog killers, the Gators are now 
hampered by a litany of injuries 
that leaves many starters ques-
tionable heading into Saturday.
Now, compare that to a Geor-
gia team that would lead the SEC 
in points scored and fewest points 
allowed if they didn’t have to compete with the No. 1 Crimson Tide.
And while Florida is using its 
three-game win streak as motiva-tion, Georgia coach Kirby Smart is using the same stat to rile up his team.
Smart started the week by 
gathering the Bulldogs and tell-ing them to stand if they’ve ever beaten the Gators. Six players rose — a handful of holdovers 
from a 2013 team that topped the 
Gators, 23-20, after Georgia run-ning back Todd Gurley toasted Florida for 187 total yards and 
two touchdowns. 
But for all the hype, history 
and pressure that comes with one 
of the biggest rivalries in the SEC, Florida’s players are eager for the 
challenge. 
“Big games is why I came 
here,” linebacker David Reese said. “That’s what motivates me, 
playing in the SEC and going against guys like this. It’s memo-ries.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14UGA has lost 
last 3 vs. UF
met with Coach McElwain this 
afternoon and he offered no additional details.”
Hmmm. Let’s let that sink in for 
a second.
If there was any legitimacy to 
these threats, why didn't McElwain report it to UF or the police? Fur-thermore, why did the UAA go out of its way to announce he gave his superiors no further information?
Could McElwain have lied about 
the threats directed at his family? I’m willing to give him the beneﬁ  t of the doubt there and say no. I don’t think he’d do that.
But could the phrase “death 
threats” be an exaggeration of what actually occurred? Absolutely.If McElwain truly believed any 
of his loved ones were in serious danger, one would hope he'd care enough to inform law enforcement ofﬁ  cials.
The fact that he didn't, coupled 
with the fact that the UAA didn't come to his defense in its public statement, is puzzling to say the least. It's enough to make me ques-tion the validity of his claim.If McElwain wants to do himself 
a favor, he needs to address this sooner rather than later. It's a hor-rendous look for everyone involved the longer it goes unexplained.
Dylan Dixon is the Alligator’s 
assistant sports editor. Contact him at ddixon@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14McElwain needs to come clean on death threats
Max Chesnes / Alligator
Florida coach Jim McElwain said on Monday that his family has received death threats this season. "That really is a pretty good testament to what's going on out there nationally, " McElwain said.
