We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 163 TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
Florida adds big pieces to 
recruiting classes
The Gators landed several big name prospects to 
their 2018 and 2019 recruiting classes over the 
Local man charged with attempted homicide
Police described incident as modiﬁ  ed “Russian roulette, ” pg. 5
Bahama Breeze opens in Butler Plaza
The Caribbean-inspired restaurant opened Monday, pg. 8By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Last Summer, four UF students 
logged onto Google Hangouts to 
discuss a seemingly ambitious, even far fetched goal: to create a solar-powered car and race it in Austin, Texas.
Earlier this month, the Solar 
Gators achieved that goal, making the presence of UF’s solar racing team known on the racetrack of the annual Formula Sun Grand Prix.
The Solar Gators, which dis-
banded brieﬂ  y between Spring 2014 and Summer 2016, is current-ly comprised of about 25 students who aim to raise awareness about sustainability through the construc-tion of solar-powered vehicles.
Ananda Sundararaman, a UF 
mechanical engineering fourth year and the president of Solar Gators, said the team worked on its solar-powered car for most of Summer A. Although they didn’t place in the competition, he said making it to Texas — where 20 other teams were competing — was special.
Once there, the competition proved to be just as difﬁ  cult.
Due to the team’s initial dif-
ﬁ  culties in Texas, which included troubleshooting issues and battery ﬁ  res, Sundararaman, 21, said get-ting the vehicle ready to race on the competition track was a huge accomplishment in and of itself.In order to make it onto the 
competition track, known as the 
Circuit of the Americas, competi-
tors are required to make it past the three-day inspection phase, which 
can be very difﬁ  cult, Sundarara-man said. 
“It was an against all odds kind 
of thing,” he said. “There were 
teams that were there that had 
been there before that weren’t able to pass inspections.”
Because the team faced so 
many obstacles at the beginning of 
the six-day competition — which 
took place between July 3 and July 
8 — Sundararaman said the Solar 
Gators became known to other 
competitors as the underdogs.
Sundararaman said other com-
petitors even helped out by giving the Solar Gators advice as well as 
mechanical parts for their solar-
powered vehicle.
On the last day of the event, 
when the Solar Gators car pulled up to the starting line just minutes 
before the 5 p.m. end time, every-
one was chomping and cheering, 
Sundararaman said.
“It wasn’t just our team. All 
the teams were going crazy Gator 
Chomping, supporting us and UF students travel to Texas to race solar-powered car
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville city ofﬁ  cials hope that in the 
future citizens will be able to cast votes for 
city commissioners in late summer instead of spring.
It just won’t be anytime in the near future.At a meeting last week, the Gainesville 
City Commission postponed a decision that would extend a commissioner’s term from three years to four years, in addition to mov-ing the election date from March to August.
Every year, City Commission elections 
take place in March. If the new date was ap-proved, Gainesville voters could cast ballots for commissioners around the same time they vote for state representatives, county repre-sentatives and school board representatives.
Only two commissioners — Harvey Budd 
and Charles Goston — expressed discontent regarding the idea. Instead of approving a question to be placed on the March 2018 com-missioner ballot that would ask voters wheth-er they’d like the election day to change, a 6-to-1 vote postponed the movement.“We have ﬁ  ve members of the commis-
sion that are ready to move forward,” said 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe. “We have one 
who ... I believe just wants a little bit more 
information and wants to think about it a bit 
longer.” 
If the ballot does pass in the future — and 
the election date is adjusted — Poe said it 
could signiﬁ  cantly affect future elections, es-pecially in encouraging voter turnout.
“The positive impact is you at least double 
voter turnout and when you have twice the voters, you have twice the democracy,” Poe said. “Democracy works best when more peo-ple participate and this will certainly cause that.”
Like Poe, at-large Commissioner Helen 
Warren said she’s hopeful the ballot will pass the next time the members vote. 
“When it comes back, we’ll have to vote 
again, and I’m hoping that there will still be six commissioners to support that,” she said. “The main thing that we’ve all been talking about is to get more people to show up for City Commission will reconsider 
election dates, term lengthCourtesy to the Alligator
Members of UF’s Solar Gators team chomp next to the solar-powered car they created and raced 
at the 2017 Formula Sun Grand Prix in Austin, T exas, this month.
THE PANTYHOSE WERE WORN 
TO CONCEAL HIS IDENTITY.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A pantyhose-masked armed robber 
held an X-Mart Adult Superstore employ-
ee at gunpoint early Monday and stole 
an undisclosed amount of money from 
the cash register, police said. 
Shortly after 1 a.m., the man walked 
into the 24/7 adult entertainment store, 
located at 3510 SW 13th St., pulled out a 
handgun and pointed it at an employee, said Sgt. Chris Sims, an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesperson. 
The man, who wore a piece of panty-
hose over his head like a mask, demand-ed money from the cash register and ran away from the store with the money be-fore police arrived, Sims said. 
Ofﬁ  cers searched the surrounding 
area with K-9 units and could not ﬁ  nd him.“It’s an active investigation,” Sims 
said.  
Police said it appears the man did not 
steal any items from the store besides the cash and that the pantyhose he wore on his head were his own.
Witnesses told police the man is black 
and about 6 feet tall with a stocky build. 
The man was wearing a Michael Jordan 
jacket at the time of the incident, but witnesses could not describe his face accurately due to the undergarment he 
wore on his head, Sims said.
The superstore is located less than 
half a mile away from the Alligator and 
The Gainesville Sun’s shared space, lo-cated at 2700 SW 13th St., and is one 
of the few adult entertainment shops in 
Alachua County, along with the Pure Pleasure Megacenter in Hawthorne. 
An employee representing X-Mart de-
clined to comment on the incident. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org ACSO: Pantyhose-wearing 
armed robber on the looseSEE SOLAR,  PAGE 4
SEE VOTE,  PAGE 4
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
past week, pg. 13Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vinyasa yoga at the Harn
Get in tune with your breath-
ing and follow it through 
standing, flowing, seated and 
balancing postures at the Harn Museum of Art. Every Tuesday and Wednesday through Aug. 
2, the Harn will host a free 
vinyasa yoga class from 3:45 p.m. to 4:45 p.m. Please bring your own mat, and check in all personal items at the security 
desk. A water station will be 
provided. For more informa-tion, visit harn.ufl.edu/blank-space.
Summer Shakes 2017 See an adapted, all-female 
production of Shakespeare’s “Richard III” at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre as 
part of their inaugural Summer Shakes theater festival today at 8 p.m. Summer Shakes em-phasizes the importance of female acting, directing and 
producing in theater through 
performances traditionally performed by men. Art and performances from local fe-
male artists will also be fea-
tured. Doors for the show open at 7 p.m., and tickets are $10 at the Hippodrome Box Office or online at tickets.the-
hipp.org/TheatreManager/1/
online?event=0.  
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to the public. For more informa-
tion, visit the Toastmasters’ 
website, talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s Comedy Boom features live stand-up comedy every Wednesday night. Local come-
dians open the show for a dif-
ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m., and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will 
accompany the show.'Free Fridays' concert series: 
Bridget Kelley 
The City of Gainesville's Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department hosts an annual series of free, family-friendly concerts in downtown Gainesville. Featuring local and regional musicians, the 2017 “Free Fridays” concert series plays each Friday night from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. through Oct. 20. This Friday's show is 
Bridget Kelley, a blues artist. 
The series includes a diverse 
selection of musical genres, with a mix of returning audi-ence favorites and bands new 
to the series. For more infor-
mation, visit gnvculturalseries.
org/free-fridays-concert-series.
Creative B Movie Series: 'Back 
to the Future'
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History continues its 
free movie series with “Back to the Future,” released in 1985 and rated PG, Friday at 7 p.m. 
The museum and Creative B 
will screen the movie and ex-
plore the balance between sci-ence and art with an expert panel. An opening reception 
will be held starting at 6 p.m. 
The panel discussion starts at 
7 p.m., followed by the mov-ie. The museum's permanent exhibits will be open to the 
public for extended hours un-
til 10 p.m. For more informa-
tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/creative-b-back-to-future.
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista 
Joshua Broadhead, who goes by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for 
Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, 
visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@gmail.com.
Weekly Bible study on deliver-
ance through discipleshipElnathan of Haven of Hope, lo-cated at 321 SE 48th St., will 
sponsor a weekly Bible study. 
This study will focus on deliv-erance through discipleship. For more information call 352-
377-8669, text 352-213-2147 or email hutchinsonjoanna12@
gmail.com.
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event in July and August. The gallery features hundreds of quality, handcrafted fine 
arts and crafts created by re-
gional artists. The event will be held at the gallery, located at 201 SW Second Place. For 
more information, call 352-
378-1383 or visit artisansguild-gallery.com.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The ex-
hibition features work by 
Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-lar street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in-
clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different 
sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 163TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
#3
Best universities 
for technology 
transfer /five.numr#6
Top colleges 
doing the most 
for low-income 
students /six.numr
#6
Production 
of doctoral 
degrees /seven.numr/one.numrLondon-based Times Higher Education  (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf)   /two.numrCenter 
for World University Rankings (2017)   /three.numrForbes  (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/six.tf)   
/four.numrAssociation of University Technology Managers    /five.numrMilken 
Institute  (2017)   /six.numrNew York Times (/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf5)   /seven.numrSurvey of 
Earned Doctorates  list of all U.S. universities (/two.tf /zero.tf/one.tf5)
 Thanks 
      Gators,
Your hard work. Your dedication. 
You’re what makes the Gator Nation great.
And we’re reaching higher. With your help, we’re  
heading for the top 10. 
www.ufl.edu4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Solar Gators’ car got onto the competition track just three minutes before the 
cutoff for the ﬁ  nal race. Solar Gators president Ananda Sundararaman said when they were able to scale the ﬁ  rst hill on the track, all the universities that helped the team burst into cheers.
cheering for us because a couple hours before it hadn’t seemed like we were going to be able to compete,” he said.
The Solar Gators receive a bulk of their ﬁ  nan-
cial support from the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, which encourages students to participate in design-and-build com-petitions, said department chair David Hahn. 
Hahn said between all the vehicle’s parts 
and travel costs, the Solar Gators’ past year cost about $20,000, which is signiﬁ  cantly less than universities with older, more experienced teams. 
Now that the Solar Gators have attained their 
main goal — successfully making it to the For-mula Sun Grand Prix — Hahn said he believes the team will continue to grow.
“I think this gave them the conﬁ  dence that 
they can get a car out there on the track to com-plete the course,” Hahn said. “I feel passionately that these design-and-build projects are really important for the students.”
Now that his team has proven they can build 
a raceable, solar-powered car, Sundararaman said he hopes that Solar Gators will be able to 
build a competitive car.
“Our goal is (to) produce a car that is more 
competitive that elevates our standing within the 
solar car community of different universities,” Sundararaman said. “In that process, we hope to 
continue to recruit both young and experienced 
members to both help make that goal a reality 
and kind of foster the community of develop-ment that we have.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgelections.”
Kristen Jackson, a UF civil engi-
neering sophomore, said that while she did vote in the latest spring City Commission elections, she would have preferred to vote in the fall instead.
“Having our elections held at 
a different time of year makes it harder to inform and interest peo-ple,” the 18-year-old said. “More people are likely to vote in congres-sional and governor races.”
Warren added that changing 
the election date would save city money.
“The rough estimate has been 
that it cost about $100,000 every time we do a city election, indepen-dent of any other county or state or national election,” Warren said.
While cost does play a part in 
why some would like the ballot to pass, Poe said it’s not his main fo-cus.
“The most important thing is 
increasing voter participation,” he said. 
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgSOLAR,  from pg. 1
VOTE,  from pg. 1The Solar Gators served as competition’s underdog Election 
decision postponedTUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Stanley Kim came to UF in 
2006 to complete his small animal sur-
gery residency, he did not realize he would become one of the most influen-tial professors in the college.
Kim, an associate professor in UF’s 
College of Veterinary Medicine, played a key role in developing a synthetic ca-nine cadaver, which will replace the old method of using real canine cadavers. 
He said he has been working on the 
project for about two years now, after finding many problems with using real canine cadavers, such as acquiring and 
storing them.
The synthetic cadavers are anatomi-
cally accurate, and the tissue is designed 
to feel realistic and behave the same as a real cadaver, Kim said. 
He said the synthetic cadavers will 
allow students to practice common pro-cedures and become more surgically proficient. 
“We were especially interested in try-
ing to simulate as realistic an experience for the students as possible,” Kim said. 
He said this is only the first genera-
tion of the synthetic cadavers, so they are going to be working on making them more realistic and cost-effective. 
“We’re constantly working on ways to improve the model,” Kim said. 
He said he hopes to see them even-
tually used in colleges across the nation 
and maybe even the world.
Kim will receive the 2017 Zoetis Dis-
tinguished Veterinary Teacher Award for 
not only his work with the synthetic ca-nine cadavers but also for his quality of teaching and impact on student learning.
He has worked at UF as an associ-
ate professor since 2011, and he said he enjoys teaching because he feels it is a 
way to make a difference in veterinary 
medicine by training the next generation of veterinarians. 
“If I can contribute to training many 
veterinarians, it’s quite rewarding to see that some of my work is going to have a wider impact,” Kim said.
Dr. Rowan Milner, the chair of the 
Department of Small Animal Clinical 
Sciences, said he was one person who 
nominated Kim for the Zoetis award. 
He said he chose Kim because he is 
widely recognized for his research and uses advanced technology, like the syn-thetic cadavers, to improve students’ comprehension of veterinary medicine.  
“He’s an excellent teacher,” Milner 
said. “His presentation to students in the 
classroom is excellent.”
@catie_wegman
mvwegman@alligator.orgUF associate professor creates synthetic canine cadavers
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Stanley Kim, an associate professor in UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine, teaches students on 
a synthetic canine cadaver. The cadavers are anatomically accurate and designed to feel realistic. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After what police described as 
a modified “Russian” roulette, a Gainesville man has been accused of trying to murder his older broth-er.
Julian Lee Myhand, 27, was ar-
rested Saturday night on a charge of attempted homicide.At about 11 p.m. police re-
sponded to a call that Myhand was 
holding his brother at gunpoint in 
a house on Southeast 46th Terrace, 
according to an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office arrest report. The 
house is located less than a mile 
away from Eastside High School.
Myhand’s brother told police he 
was asleep in his room when he 
woke to Myhand touching his fore-head and saying, “I’ll burn you,” 
according to the report. 
When his brother stood up, 
Myhand pulled a revolver from 
his back pocket and pointed it at 
his face, according to the report. 
Myhand emptied five bullets from 
the gun, leaving one bullet in the 
chamber.
According to the report, My-
hand told his brother he was going to kill him.
With the gun pointed at his 
brother, Myhand then pulled the trigger three times, according to 
the report. No bullets were fired. 
Immediately after Myhand pulled 
the trigger, police arrived and used 
a stun gun on him, according to the 
report.
Myhand’s father told police he 
witnessed the event and confirmed what Myhand’s brother said. Ac-
cording to the report, Myhand told 
police the gun he used did not be-
long to him.
As of Monday evening, Myhand 
remains in Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $500,000 bond. He faces a 
charge of attempted homicide. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org GNV man fires three empty rounds at brother, police saidThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Progressives don’t want Pence any more than Trump
Do progressives really want a President Pence?  
Their immediate answer may be: “yes, impeach President Donald Trump no matter what,” but if progressives considered what was best for their agenda, they would recognize how relatively great 
the Trump presidency has been thus far.  
Last week, special counsel Robert Mueller revealed 
the Department of Justice’s probe of Trump’s campaign regarding collusion with Russia would be extended to al-low investigation into all of Trump’s business transactions with Russians dating as far back as 2008.
While this revelation hasn’t grabbed headlines like 
previous developing stories on Russian collusion, it could have serious legal implications for Trump. Doing business 
in Russia is not like doing business in the U.S. The Rus-
sian economy is largely controlled by the president and is run more like a mob than a legitimate economic organiza-tion. Because of this, to have favorable business deals in Russia, businessmen have to do business as Russians do. In other words, in order to have a successful business in Russia, ethical standards are abandoned to give bribes to elected officials or to pay whoever needs to be appeased. As a result, Trump, who has had several successful busi-
ness ventures in Russia since 2008, should be particularly 
worried. It does not take much of an imagination to see Trump bribing a crony of Russian President Vladimir Pu-tin’s to ensure the success of his Miss Universe pageant. This has potential to expose his presidency’s possible less-than-legal financial exchanges, which could evolve into grounds for impeachment and removal from office.  
While this may be the result progressives have been 
clamoring for since his inauguration, it may not be as de-
sirable as they imagine. If Trump is impeached and sub-
sequently removed from office, Vice President Mike Pence would be sworn in as president. Pence, because he was not directly elected by the Americans, would obviously lack the popular legitimacy an American presidency de-sires. Nevertheless, for many reasons, he would be a much tougher opponent for liberals. This leads me to question why liberals would want to remove a president from of-fice who may be the most liberal Republican president in recent history.
Trump may not seem to be a liberal on the surface: 
He ran as a Republican, favors increased military spend-ing, advocates for limited government in most areas and 
nominated a textualist to the U.S Supreme Court. These 
are traditionally conservative ideological views, but does Trump himself favor these ideas? Trump has expressed protectionist trade views on the campaign trail and has even supported Democratic political candidates vocally and financially — both of which are counter to typical Republican ideals and are much more aligned with liberals than conservatives.  
Pence as president would be a dream come true for 
establishment Republicans who have openly opposed Trump since he declared his candidacy. Establishment Re-publicans have ensured that no major legislation would pass for Trump to sign. Nearly everything substantial that Trump has accomplished thus far has been a result of ex-ecutive orders. This would not be a problem with a Presi-dent Pence. Pence has enjoyed amicable relations with Re-publicans during his entire career. Instead of encountering resistance among Senate and House Republicans, Pence 
could take advantage of a united Republican majority and 
pass major legislation.  
Mike Pence is a rock-ribbed conservative. He does not 
support LGBTQ+ rights, is anti-abortion and generally holds views counter to those held by progressives on the issues they hold most dear. And because Pence has such good relations with his fellow Republicans, he would like-ly be able to make progress in achieving his desired goals. A President Pence could push Democrats to tone down 
their hysteria, considering Pence is a more traditional poli-
tician that is nowhere near as controversial as Trump and doesn’t tweet everything that comes to mind.  
So, how would a Trump impeachment help advance 
the progressive agenda?
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column appears on 
Tuesdays.Fall is coming, 
embrace it
This week, we thought it would be nice to take a quick breather from the usual political commentary the edito-rial section is home to. Instead, with Fall semester just around the corner, we wanted to take a moment to re-flect on how lucky we all are to be a part of The Gator 
Nation and to appreciate how great it is to be a Florida Gator.
Coming to UF for the first time freshman year felt like a 
fantasy for many incoming Gators. We got chills while driving up to campus, and the excitement we felt while moving into our dorm rooms was unlike any other. We will never forget our first class, our first football game, our first party or our first all-nighter at the library.  
For some of us, coming to UF was never really the plan. 
Plenty of us had high hopes that our futures involved ivy-
lined brick buildings and snowy winters. However, reality hit 
toward the end of high school when we found out just how much out-of-state tuition really cost — let alone tuition at a private university. Does that mean we settled when we be-came a Gator? No. It just means that we needed a little push in order to appreciate UF and realize where we belonged.
Other Gators came out of the womb sporting orange and 
blue and grimacing at Florida State University’s garnet and gold. Everyone in their family before them has been a Gator, 
and they grew up in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. For these stu-
dents, there was never a doubt in their mind that, come high-school graduation, they’d be calling Gainesville their new home.
After freshman year, the initial excitement of becoming a 
Gator has somewhat dulled. Challenging classes, cramming sessions at Marston Science Library and some questionably fuzzy nights spent at Midtown start to wear you down after a while. Once you’ve been here for a few years, UF starts to lose 
it’s Disney World-like effect, and before you know it, it starts 
to feel like the real world.  
Dear reader, please, do not let this happen to you.As Fall semester nears, we have a chance for renewal. We 
are given a brilliant opportunity to rekindle those feelings of elation and gratitude for the fact that we are going to one of the greatest schools in the country. We have a chance to ap-proach this semester and this school year with re-established excitement and positivity about what the future holds.
Sure, nothing can beat the feeling of the many milestones 
and triumphs we experienced in our first few months, but by trying to revive the freshman in all of us, we will have a hap-pier and more successful year. 
At no other point in your life do you live within walking 
distance of your best friends, nor is it acceptable to go out partying on a Monday night. At no other point in your life will you have the opportunity to learn alongside other passionate, driven and hardworking students. At no other point will you 
be a UF student. These years truly are the best of our lives, and 
we need to do our best this year to not take them for granted. 
Instead of dreading your 8:30 a.m. class, remember how 
great it feels to make your own schedule. Instead of starting a fight with your rather unkempt roommate, remember how lucky you are to live with your best friends and to have the rent covered by your parents. Instead of crumbling under the stress of classes, internships and involvement, remember what a unique time this is in your life and how the hard work you 
put in now will pay off later.
Remember how lucky we are to be Florida Gators and how 
lucky we are to still have time left in Gainesville. Let’s make 
the most of it.Column
This week was a sad one for angsty mil-
lennials everywhere. (Well, honestly most weeks are sad for angsty millen-nials these days, but I digress.) This week, Chester Bennington killed him-
self. With the death of this musician, most fa-mous for being the lead vocalist of Linkin Park and also being a member of Dead by Sunrise and Stone Temple Pilots, the toll of musicians gone before their time rises. Bennington joins the ranks of Jimi Hendrix, Amy Winehouse, Janis Joplin, Kurt Cobain, Chris Cornell and more. Not all of these musicians chose to end their lives, but some did. Arguably, many mu-
sicians gone before their time were more ap-
preciated, admired and loved after they died than they ever were before. Their popularity, their fan base and their inﬂ  uence grew.
Why is it that sometimes people have to die 
before their art is adequately appreciated? Why is it that sometimes people have to die before their lives and struggles are noted at all? After each of these musicians’ lives ended, people dug deep and speculated all kinds of reasons for their leaving this Earth. Why is it that we wait until it’s over to investigate the problem?
Truthfully, I don’t think we mean 
to do this. I think we all have our own problems. So, rather than de-vote our time to looking into other people’s problems, we focus on our own until one day, something huge and terrible happens. This huge and terrible thing captivates our attention and can become a symbol. They become a symbol for all of us — a symbol that we are not all as OK 
as we seem and that everyone has their own 
demons and struggles. And through these de-mons and struggles, they still managed to cre-ate art and inspire us all.
Here’s the thing: These artists are not sym-
bols. They were — are — people. And while I’d argue that listening to their music is an ex-cellent way to honor their memories, spending countless hours speculating about the circum-stances of their deaths is not. Blam-ing their spouses and other family members for their deaths is not. We should honor their lives, not obsess over their deaths.
Let’s take Bennington, for exam-
ple. Most articles about him docu-mented his involvement in Linkin Park and Stone Temple Pilots but generally stopped there. The rest of the articles usually dove into the fact 
that he experienced problems maintaining so-briety and that his body was found in his home in a Los Angeles suburb. Very few articles talk-
ed about the fact that he has been dubbed “the 
voice of a generation.” Very few talked about how open he was about mental health, particu-larly his own struggle with mental health. Very few talked about how many kids his voice af-fected — how many kids found a safe place in his music while they fought their own battles.
Not talking about these things is, in my 
opinion, an insult to his memory. How can we tell people life is beautiful and should be cher-ished when we spend so much time focusing on death? Life is beautiful, and death should be seen as an opportunity to focus on the good people did leading up to it, not the negative 
circumstances surrounding his or her death. 
We shouldn’t wait until someone passes to ap-preciate him or her. Bennington is more than the headline, “Found dead at 41.” Cobain is more than the headline, “Dead at 27.” They are people. Their lives inspired and continue to inspire, and, in focusing on their deaths, we are missing out on what we can honor about their lives. Let’s respect those who are no lon-
ger with us and all those who were affected by 
their lives.
If you or anyone you know is struggling and 
considering taking his or her own life, please do not be afraid to get help. Call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Tuesdays.TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
3717 NW 13th Street  •  352-372-8387shoresanhosp.comVACCINE CLINIC
Friday, July 28 
8 am - 8 pm
Reserve your dog’s
appointment today!
We must appreciate artists before they die: A tribute to Chester Bennington
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
By Miranda Leedy
Alligator Contributing Writer
At 3 p.m. Monday, Bahama Breeze of-
ﬁ  cially opened its doors to the public. 
The new restaurant, located at 3989 Pla-
za Blvd. in Butler Plaza, offers Caribbean-
inspired food, handcrafted tropical drinks and an island atmosphere, with the interior design modeled after a sugar mill distillery from the Caribbean. 
The chain started in Orlando, and the 
Gainesville location is the 38th in the coun-try, said John Brown, the general manager. 
He said he’s looking forward to making 
people happy and really taking care of the community.
“The budget for the restaurant is not re-
strictive, which allows management to do 
more with the area,” Brown said.
He said the restaurant offers live music on Saturdays, speciﬁ  c promotions during 
different times of the year and two happy hours — one during the day and one at night. 
“We want everyone to feel like there’s 
something for them here at Bahama Breeze,” Brown said.
Lucía Steinkopf, a 56-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she’s visited the 
Orlando location and is very fond of the 
people and food. “It’s a restaurant that I can feel comfort-
able enough to take not only my friends, but my children as well,” she said.
José Luis Zerpa, a 60-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said the food is good, but the environment is what makes the ex-perience great.
“The atmosphere is so chill and the area 
is open, so there’s enough space to really 
enjoy our surroundings,” he said.New Caribbean-inspired restaurant opens in Gainesville
POLICE RELEASED SHOOTER 
AFTER INTERVIEWING HIM.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Four days after a shooting that left one 
Gainesville man dead last week, police have 
yet to determine whether the shooter will 
face criminal charges.
Roderick Ray McCoy, 24, was shot at Reﬂ  ections Apartments, located at 205 SW 
75th St., on Friday shortly after 2 a.m. and was pronounced dead later at UF Health Shands Hospital, said Sgt. Chris Sims, an 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesper-
son. 
Sims said the shooter — whose name has 
not been released to maintain privacy dur-
ing the active investigation — is not consid-
ered a suspect.
Police said the shooting wasn’t random, and the shooter and McCoy knew one an-other. During their investigation, ACSO took the shooter and several others into custody to question them, all of whom were coop-
erative and were later released, Sims said. 
Sims said it is unclear if criminal charg-
es will be ﬁ  led against the shooter. Police 
will continue investigating the details of the 
shooting and will send their ﬁ  ndings to the 
state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce afterward for ﬁ  nal review on whether the shooter should face charges. 
Friday marks the third fatal shooting 
since April that ACSO has investigated.
An April shooting left 23-year-old Chris-
tin Cassels dead on the scene in a garage be-hind her boyfriend’s house in Hawthorne. In May, 24-year-old Derrick Devante Smith was shot at Holly Heights apartments and 
later died at Shands. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org ACSO: No criminal charges ﬁ  led in Reﬂ  ections shootingBy Mary Clare Jalonick
The Associated Press
Senior White House adviser Jared Kush-
ner denied Monday that he colluded with 
Russians in the course of President Donald 
Trump’s White House bid and declared he 
has “nothing to hide.”
Behind closed doors, Kushner spoke to 
staff members of the Senate Intelligence 
Committee for nearly three hours at the 
Capitol and then made a brief public state-ment back at the White House.
“Let me be very clear,” he said. “I did 
not collude with Russia nor do I know of 
anyone else in the campaign who did so.”
Kushner left without taking questions. 
In an 11-page statement, released hours 
before the Capitol session, he detailed four 
contacts with Russians during Trump’s 
campaign and transition. It aimed to ex-plain inconsistencies and omissions in a security clearance form that has invited public scrutiny.
In the statement, Kushner said none of 
his contacts, which included meetings at Trump Tower with the Russian ambassa-dor and a Russian lawyer, was improper.
In speaking to Congress, Kushner be-
came the ﬁ  rst member of the president’s inner circle to face questions from congres-sional investigators as they probe Russian meddling in the 2016 election and possible 
links to the Trump campaign. He is to meet 
with lawmakers on the House Intelligence Committee today.
Kushner’s appearances have been high-
ly anticipated, in part because of headlines in recent months about his interactions with Russians and because he had not per-sonally responded to questions about an incomplete security clearance form and his 
conversations with foreigners.
The document provides for the ﬁ  rst time 
Kushner’s own recollection of a meeting at 
Trump Tower with the Russian ambassa-dor to the U.S. to talk about secure lines of 
communications and, months earlier, of a 
gathering with a Russian lawyer who was said to have damaging information to pro-vide about former Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton.In the document, Kushner calls the June 
2016 meeting at Trump Tower with Rus-
sian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya such a “waste of time” that he asked his assistant to call him out of the gathering.
Emails released this month show that 
the president’s son, Donald Trump Jr., ac-cepted the meeting with the idea that he would receive information as part of a Rus-sian government effort to help Trump’s 
campaign. But Kushner says he hadn’t seen those emails until recently from his 
lawyers.
Kushner said in his statement that 
Trump Jr. invited him to the meeting. He says he arrived late and when he heard the lawyer discussing the issue of adoptions, he texted his assistant to call him out.
Kushner also denied reports he dis-
cussed setting up a “secret back-channel” with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. But he did detail a conversation with the 
Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, in 
December at Trump Tower in which retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, then-incoming national security adviser, also at-tended.
Kushner also said he met with a Russian 
banker, Sergey Gorkov, at the request of Kislyak but no speciﬁ  c policies were dis-cussed.
Kushner explained that his application 
form for a security clearance form was sub-mitted prematurely due to a miscommuni-cation with his assistant, who had errone-ously believed the document was complete.
He said he mistakenly omitted all of his 
foreign contacts, not just his meetings with Russians, and has worked in the last six months with the FBI to correct the record.
Trump Jr. and Trump’s former campaign 
manager Paul Manafort, who was also at the June 2016 meeting, were scheduled to testify before the Senate Judiciary Commit-tee this week. But on Friday their attorneys 
said they remained in negotiations with 
that panel. The two men are now in discus-sions to be privately interviewed by staff or lawmakers, though the GOP chairman of the committee, Iowa Sen. Chuck Grass-ley, has said they will eventually testify in 
public.TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
auto repair shop
$20 Oil Change up to 4qts
We carry car, truck and trailer tires 
Four new tires gets free alignment
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858
No Russia collusion, Trump son-in-law Kushner tells Congress
J. Scott Applewhite / The Associated Press
Senior White House adviser Jared Kushner, center, accompanied by his attorney Abbe Lowell, right, arrives on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., on Monday to meet behind closed doors before the Senate Intelligence Committee on the investigation into possible collusion between Russian ofﬁ  cials and the President Donald Trump campaign. 
TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
TRIKE BIKE FOR SALE
As new. $300. Mark 216-317-3212    7-25-2-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-14-25-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
WANTED:
SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT ORONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET.1BR garage apt, w/ garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-1-17-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus. Each unit $800 per month, water included. W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
Remember to tell them..."I 
found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Designated drivers are the greatestHIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Caregiver and behavior assistant for adult with autism. Training provided. Must have car, pass background check, negative drug test. $15/hr plus mileage. Two or three days/wk. Send resume to colasanteona@gmail.com      7-25-17-3-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    8-1-17-4-14
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
1. Against which team, and in what 
year, did Baltimore’s Cal Ripken Jr. 
begin his major-league record consec-
utive-games-played streak of 2,632? 
2. How many times has a San Diego 
Padres pitcher won 20 or more games 
in a season?
3. Only two schools in NCAA Divi-
sion I football history have averaged 
600 or more yards per game for a sea-
son. Name them.
4. Who was the first player in NBA 
history to reach 15,000 career points?
5. Name the last team before the 
Washington Capitals (2015-16, 2016-
17) to win the Presidents’ Trophy 
(best NHL record) for two consecu-tive seasons.
6. Who won the last weightlift-
ing medal for the U.S. before Sar -
ah Robles won a bronze in the 2016 Olympics?
7. When was the last time before 
2016 that every member of the U.S. 
Ryder Cup team had earned at least one point by the end of the second day of competition?
Answers
1. Against Toronto, in 1982.2. Three times — Randy Jones (20 
wins in 1975; 22 in 1976) and Gay-lord Perry (21 in 1978).
3. Houston (in 1989) and Baylor (in 
2013 and 2015).
4. Dolph Schayes, in 1960.5. The Vancouver Canucks (2010-11 
and 2011-12 seasons).
6. Tara Nott (gold) and Cheryl 
Haworth (bronze) won medals in 
2000.
7. It was 1975.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 24, 2017King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1.  Bent, distorted 
1.  ____ tree5.  Ring-tailed ____
2.  Penitence 6.  Christopher ____
3.  ____ money7.  Type of alloy
4.  Streak makerPWAERD
TANWULMERLU
EVERE
SMEROER
ERTSEANTWERPE
TEROEMANSWERS: 1A-Warped  5A-Lemur  6A-Reeve  7A-Pewter
1D-Walnut  2D-Remorse  3D-Earnest  4D-Meteor  B-Paul Newman7-24-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: In 1995, this actor was ranked #12 on Empire magazine’s 
list of the “100 Sexiest Stars in film history.”
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Physicist Newton
6 Maker of
TimeCutter ridingmowers
10 Crimson Tide, to
fans
14 “Ask someone
else”
15 Fail to enunciate16 “Don’t have __!”:
“Calm down!”
17 *Royal passing
rubber checks?
19 Ding-__
20 Mailing label
phrase
21 Shopping to beat
the band
23 Sign of a
Broadway hit
24 International
accord
25 *English
Einstein?
30 Feel sick31 Suggestive
sideways look
32 Ten sawbucks36 Just okay
38 Calculate again
41 The “Y” of YSL42 Lesley of “60
Minutes”
44 Blood fluids
46 “All you can __”:
buffet sign
47 *Pack animal
carrying a
Mexican treat?
51 Shout of
jubilation
54 Butter square
55 Stop fretting57 Weather map line61 “In the Valley of
__”: 2007
Tommy LeeJones film
62 *Gdansk
gentleman?
64 Brand with a
Swoosh logo
65 Utility abbr.
66 Worked (up)67 Fly high68 __ Martin
Cognac
69 Fills fully
DOWN
1 Signs, as a
document
2 French silk3 Mailing label
abbr.
4 Surrounded by
5 Chicago’s time
zone
6 “What a shame!”7 Hodgepodge8 Miler or sprinter9 Princess Leia’s
last name
10 Metaphorical coin
that keepsturning up
11 Oak-to-be
12 Painter Claude
13 “Well, gosh”18 Stickier22 Bic Clic __ pen25 Low singing
voice
26 More than a
melee
27 “Casablanca”
heroine
28 Word before
maiden names
29 “The Godfather”
enforcer Luca
33 Finished34 Saline sign of
sadness
35 Spanish “this”37 Pooh Bear’s
lament
39 Police rank: Abbr.40 “That’ll be
enough of thatsubject” ... and ahint to solving theanswers tostarred clues
43 “Superstar”
rapper __ Fiasco
45 Ones inflicting
humiliation
48 Farm machine
49 Fix, as a shoe50 Thomas More’s
perfect world
51 Chirpy birds
52 Sun: Pref.53 Honshu port56 Theoretical
matter involved inthe Big Bang
58 Lightning streak59 On the quiet side,
at sea
60 Cincinnati team63 Slippery, as a road
By Joe Kidd
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/25/1707/25/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 25, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Asian priests
6 Miso base
11 Zodiac critter
14 Town house, e.g.
15 How gourmands
enjoy their food
17 Complain, “Don’t
I get anything to
do around
here?”?
19 Distressed sort?
20 Medium for much
body art
21 Crop planter23 Slants24 Compensation
for an incompletesundae?
28 European luxury
vehicles
29 Atari release of
1972
30 Twaddle33 Rock quarry unit34 River feeder36 It may involve
cold calls
37 Air-conditioning
sound
38 Territory east of
the Philippines
39 Dance performed
with passion
40 When a
restaurant offersits weeklymushroomspecials?
43 Witless sorts
46 Water nymph47 Diarist Nin48 Heads or tails51 “It’s party time!” ...
or a hint to 17-,
24- and 40-Across
56 2003 best-selling
nutritional self-help book
57 Raring to go
58 Furtive59 x, in math60 Condition
DOWN
1 Any Boy Scout2 Not up3 NYC cultural
attraction
4 Tracy/Hepburn
classic
5 Burglar alarm
devices6 Electronic
telemarketing tool
7 Big initials in
bowling
8 Dallas campus:
Abbr.
9 Chick magnet?
10 Making slow
progress
11 Jockey controls
12 Isolated
13 Birds that may
babble
16 Stand (one) in
good __: beuseful to
18 Like a meadow in
the morning
22 One taking things
back?
23 Balderdash24 Fives and tens,
say
25 Netflix competitor26 Dutch export27 Rock’s __
Fighters
30 31-Down
environment
31 Bit of 30-Down
life
32 Bit of subterfuge34 Backyard
cookout supply35 Car wash item
36 Leased, with “on”38 Crime drama
sound effect
39 Psychological
wounds
40 Pass off (on)41 Runs out42 Baklava dough43 Bulls and bucks44 Retired NBA
center45 Like shabby old
clothes
49 Mennen lotion
50 “... prologue to
the history of __
and foulthoughts”: Iago
52 Ring legend53 Get-up-and-go54 Big night55 TV’s “Science
Guy”
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/21/1707/21/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 21, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsTUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
UF men's tennis rising 
sophomore Stephen Madonia won the ITA Summer Circuit singles tournament held in Gainesville on Monday. Read on Pg. 14.Gators win medals at U20 Pan American Championships
Rising sophomore Brandee' Johnson won gold and incoming freshman Cory 
Poole nabbed bronze in the 400-meter hurdles at the U20 Pan American Championships on Sunday. Johnson clocked a winning time of 56.65 seconds while Poole crossed the ﬁ  nish line in 50.14 seconds. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Gators' football team’s 
future got a little bit brighter this 
past week following the additions 
of several talented prospects to its 
2018 and 2019 recruiting classes.
Five-star quarterback Matt 
Corral committed to UF on 
Saturday after attending its annual 
recruiting showcase, Friday Night 
Lights. The 2018 prospect from 
Long Beach, California, had 
previously announced his intent to attend USC in February 2016 but decommitted from the Trojans last month.
Corral completed 64.3 percent 
of his passes with 22 touchdowns and three interceptions during his junior year at Long Beach Poly 
High School. He also ran for 346 
yards and recorded seven rushing touchdowns on 61 carries. He is the No. 7-overall rated prospect in the 2018 recruiting class, according to Rivals.
Coach Jim McElwain then 
landed four-star wide receiver 
Ja’Marr Chase on Sunday. Chase, a 
native of Metairie, Louisiana, chose the Gators over LSU and TCU. He is the No. 149-overall rated prospect in the 2018 recruiting class.
Other 2018 prospects who 
announced their intent to attend Florida this past week were four-star offensive lineman Curtis 
Dunlap Jr. from Bradenton, Florida; 
four-star tight end Kyle Pitts from Warminster, Pennsylvania; three-star defensive lineman Dante Lang from Boca Raton, Florida; three-
star defensive back Randy Russell 
from Miami; and three-star wide receiver Tyquan Thornton from Miami.
The Gators have 14 total 
commits for 2018, a class that is ranked ninth overall by Rivals.  UF adds commits to 2018, 2019 recruiting classes
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Less than six weeks remain 
until Florida kicks off the 2017 
regular season against Michigan at AT&T Stadium. The Gators enter this year as back-to-back SEC East champions, notching 13 conference wins under coach Jim McElwain since he took over the program in 2015. As always, UF’s success on the gridiron this fall will largely depend on its roster, a group of players featuring both seasoned veterans and unestablished newcomers. Here is the position preview for players set to play wide receiver at Florida this year:
 Players: Antonio Callaway 
(Jr.), Tyrie Cleveland (So.), Daquon Green (Fr.), Josh Hammond (So.), Kalif Jackson (R-So.), Glenn Jarriel (R-So.), Dre Massey (R-Jr.), Jacob Mesenger (R-Jr.), Charles Nordman (R-So.), Tucker Nordman (R-So.), Brandon Powell (Sr.), James Robinson (Fr.), Freddie Swain (So.), Rick Wells (R-Fr.)
 The Gators’ deepest position 
group on this year’s roster is arguably at wide receiver.
Junior Antonio Callaway led 
the team last season with 721 yards and three touchdowns on 54 catches and ﬁ  gures to be a major focal point in the offense again this fall.
Senior Brandon Powell played 
in every game last year and made 11 starts, notching 387 yards and two touchdowns on 45 catches.
Sophomore Tyrie Cleveland 
showed his abilities as a deep threat in 2016, averaging over 21 yards per catch including a 98-yard touchdown against LSU in November.
Sophomores Josh Hammond 
and Freddie Swain both showed promise in their ﬁ  rst seasons at Florida as well, combining for 295 yards and two touchdowns on 22 catches.
But they’re not the only 
receivers expected to contribute for the Gators this fall.
Redshirt junior Dre Massey 
transferred to UF last year from 
Holmes Community College 
in Goodman, Mississippi, 
 2017 Florida Gators Position Previews: Wide ReceiverFOOTBALLFOOTBALL
He wasn’t trying to be funny. He wasn’t 
trying to make anyone snicker. He wasn’t trying 
to send the world of social media into a frenzy.
But man oh man, did O.J. Simpson make 
some people laugh last week.
In case you missed it, the disgraced former 
football player had a parole hearing in Nevada on Thursday where he asked to be released from prison earlier than his 33-year sentence for armed robbery stipulated.
Sitting in court wearing a light blue denim 
button-down shirt, Simpson blathered on for almost an hour explaining why he felt he deserved the privilege of freedom.
But in the middle of his soliloquy, with over 
13 million people watching on TV, he uttered this absurd and downright hilarious line: “I’ve always thought I was pretty good with people. I basically have spent a conﬂ  ict-free life.”
Woah… Woah woah woah woah woah. 
Let’s mull that one over for a second.
Conﬂ  ict free? Really? Has he forgotten the 
unbelievable shit show that’s been his life?
The 70-year-old’s legal history is far from 
spotless. It’s the complete opposite of spotless in fact, and it’s deﬁ  nitely not devoid of quarrel and controversy.
He was charged with spousal abuse in 1989 
after allegedly attacking Nicole Brown Simpson on New Year’s Day.
Then there’s the well-known double murder 
of Brown and Ronald Goldman, which he was 
acquitted of by a criminal jury in 1995 but found 
liable for in civil court two years later.
There’s also a road rage charge in 2001, 
armed robbery, assault and kidnapping charges from the 2007 Las Vegas robbery that ﬁ  nally put him in jail, and a contempt-of-court citation in 2008.
So with that criminal resume, how the hell 
does he categorize his existence on earth as 
conﬂ  ict free?
“He’s a sociopath, a narcissistic liar, a 
murderer, a thug, a kidnapper, a robber” Ronald 
Goldman’s father, Fred, said on Saturday. “The list goes on.”
Well said Fred. Well said.Simpson, who did ultimately receive his wish 
and was granted parole on Thursday, proved one thing to me last week. Despite almost nine 
years in jail to reﬂ  ect on his life and all of his 
mistakes, he clearly learned absolutely nothing.
A conﬂ  ict-free life? Give me a break.
Dylan Dixon is sports editor of the Alligator. 
His column appears frequently on Tuesdays and 
Thursday. Contact him at ddixon@alligator.org.   O.J. Simpson is as 
delusional as ever You’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
twitter: @dylanrdixon
SEE COMMITS,  PAGE 15
SEE RECEIVERS,  PAGE 15Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain leaves the ﬁ  eld after UF's 32-0 win over North T exas on Sept. 17 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway celebrates with C'yontai Lewis during UF's 24-10 win over Georgia on Oct. 29 at EverBank Field.
14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERTENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer 
Stephen Madonia and Andres 
Andrade may be teammates at 
Florida, but for a couple hours on 
Monday, they were opponents 
competing to win the ITA Summer Circuit singles tournament in Gainesville.
Held at the Ring Tennis Complex 
from Saturday to Monday, the event featured a draw of 64 players in both the men’s and women’s singles bracket and a draw of 32 
pairs in the men’s and women’s 
doubles bracket.
Madonia and Andrade tore through doubles action throughout the weekend as a tandem, reaching the finals before falling to Kaden Funk and Jericho Grollman.
But in singles, the two Gators 
were on opposite sides of the bracket, meaning they’d only play against each other if they both reached the championship match.
Andrade, the bracket’s No. 
1-seed, lost just one set leading up to the final round against Hsiang Chein Wang. The incoming 
freshman defeated Eduardo Roldan 
6-3, 6-3 in the quarterfinals and Ben Shelton by default in the semifinals.
Madonia, entering his 
sophomore year at UF, also had an easy road to the end. After cruising to a 6-3, 6-4 win against Jake Briggs and a 6-4, 7-5 victory over Terrell Whitehurst, the Bradenton, Florida, 
native would win it all, besting 
Andrade in three sets.
In the women’s bracket, Brooke 
Austin dominated the competition, failing to lose a set in the tournament 
on the way to winning it all. She 
defeated Olivia Thaler 6-3, 6-3 in the quarterfinals and Kylie Moulin 6-4, 6-4 in the semifinals before 
downing Rachel Rohrabacher 6-4, 
6-4 in the championship.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgMadonia, Austin win ITA Summer 
Circuit tournaments in Gainesville
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
Eleven current and former 
Gators are competing at the 2017 
FINA World Championships 
in Budapest, Hungary. The competition began on Sunday and runs until July 30.
Rising senior Caeleb Dressel headlines the list of UF swimmers participating.  Dressel set two American records on Day 1 of the 
meet.
The Green Cove Springs, 
Florida, native’s relay time of 47.26 
seconds helped Team USA edge out Brazil with an overall time of 
3:10.06.
His other record came in the 50m butterfly.  Dressel was clocked 
at 22.76 seconds, good for the best overall time on opening day.
However, Dressel fell to fourth 
place in the event’s final round on Monday with a time of 22.89 seconds.
Six other current Gators are 
competing in Budapest. Liliana Szilagyi (Hungary) is participating on the women’s side while Mark Szaranek (Great Britain), Jan Switkowski (Poland), Enzo 
Martinez-Scarpe (Uruguay) and 
Khader Baqlah (Jordan) are swimming in the men’s events.
The former Gators competing in 
the meet include Elizabeth Beisel 
(USA) and Hilda Luthersdottir 
(Iceland) for the women and Conor Dwyer (USA), Corey Main (New Zealand) and Carlos Omana (Venezuela) for the men.
Day 2 of the championships saw 
Switkowski and Baqlah finish 18th and 19th in the 200m freestyle, respectively.  Luthersdottir finished 18th in the 100m breastroke. 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Dressel leads Gators at FINA World ChampionshipsSWIMMING & DIVINGCourtesy of UAA Communications
Stephen Madonia hits a forehand during the 2016-17 Florida men’s 
tennis regular season at the Ring T ennis Complex.
TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Other top players set to join UF one year 
from now are four-star athlete Amari Burney 
from Clearwater, Florida; four-star running back Iverson Clement from Mount Holly, New Jersey; and four-star defensive back Divaad Wilson from Miami.
McElwain also received two commitments 
for its 2019 recruiting class this past weekend: three-star offensive lineman Wardrick Wilson and three-star defensive lineman Cameron Williams.
Wilson enters his junior year at Norland 
High School in Miami standing at 6-foot-5, 295 pounds, while Williams enters his 
junior year at Chaminade-Madonna Prep in 
Hollywood, Florida, standing at 6-foot-5, 220 pounds.
Wilson and Williams bring UF’s 2019 
recruiting class up to 11 members, a group that also features four-star wide receiver Maurice Goolsby from Dunnellon, Florida; four-star defensive back Jaleel McRae from New Smyrna Beach, Florida; four-star 
wide receiver John Dunmore from Delray 
Beach, Florida; and four-star athlete Tyrique Stevenson from Homestead, Florida.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgCOMMITS,  from pg. 13UF has 14 recruits committed for 2018, 11 committed for 2019
and anticipated a big season in Gainesville. The 5-foot-
9, 180-pounder is an electric athlete whom coach Jim McElwain said would “hurt” opponents in all phases of the game due to his “flat-out speed.”
However, a knee injury suffered against Massachusetts 
on Sept. 3 ended his first year at Florida before it even began. Now, almost 11 months later, Massey is healthy once again and ready to be a factor on both offense and special teams.
Florida also brings two freshmen into the mix who could 
fight for playing time this fall in four-star wideouts Daquon Green and James Robinson.
Green, standing at 6-foot-1, 187 pounds, caught 41 
passes for 639 yards and nine touchdowns during his senior 
season at Tampa Bay Tech High School, while Robinson, 
standing at 6-foot-4, 205 pounds, caught 26 passes for 517 yards and five touchdowns over his three seasons at Lakeland High School.
 Predicted Starters: Callaway, Cleveland, Massey
Callaway is a projected second round pick in next year’s 
NFL Draft and is a lock to start at Florida’s No. 1 wide 
receiver spot. Cleveland showed flashes of greatness in 
2016 and saw his playing time increase as the season went on.
Massey has some of the best intangibles on Florida’s 
roster and should win the starting job in the slot. Expect Powell, Hammond and Swain to get their opportunities as well.
However, personal conduct off the field could play a 
major role in keeping some of these players on the sidelines.
Callaway was cited for marijuana possession in May 
and pled no contest to the charge earlier this month. He also admitted to being under the influence of marijuana during an alleged sexual assault in 2016. His status for the Gators season-opener against Michigan has not yet been determined.
Other receivers such as Cleveland and redshirt freshman 
Rick Wells have had past run-ins with the law too.
As long as Florida’s receivers avoid issues off the field 
in 2017, this should be one of the team’s most productive position groups on the roster.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgRECEIVER,  from pg. 13Cleveland averaged over 21 yards per catch during his freshman y ear
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Tyrie Cleveland runs down the field during Florida's 20-7 win against South Carolina on Nov. 12, 2017, at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium.
Matt Corral – Five-Star QB (Long Beach, CA)
Iverson Clement – Four-Star RB (Mount Holly, NJ)Ja’Marr Chase – Four-Star WR (Metairie, LA)Kyle Pitts – Four-Star TE (Warminster, PA)Curtis Dunlap Jr. – Four-Star OL (Bradenton, FL)Divaad Wilson – Four-Star DB (Miami, FL)Amari Burney – Four-Star ATH (Clearwater, FL)Corey Grammage – Three-Star WR (Delray Beach, FL)Tyquan Thornton – Three-Star WR (Miami, FL)Jalynn Williams – Three-Star WR (St. Petersburg, FL)Dante Lang – Three-Star DL (Boca Raton, FL)Taylor Upshaw – Three-Star DL (Bradenton, FL)Randy Russell – Three-Star DB (Miami, FL)Deontai Williams – Three-Star DB (Ellisville, MS)John Dunmore – Four-Star WR (Delray Beach, FL)Maurice Goolsby – Four-Star WR (Dunnellon, FL)Frank Ladson Jr. – Four-Star WR (Miami, FL)Jaleel McRae – Four-Star DB (New Smyrna Beach, FL)Tyrique Stevenson – Four-Star ATH (Homestead, FL)Andrew Coker – Three-Star OL (Katy, TX)Wardrick Wilson – Three-Star OL (Miami, FL)Jaquaze Sorrells – Three-Star DL (Largo, FL)Cameron Williams – Three-Star DL (Davie, FL)Marcus Tillman Jr. – Three-Star LB (Orlando, FL)Trent Whittemore – Three-Star ATH (Gainesville, FL)
GATORS’ 2018 RECRUITING CLASS GATORS’ 2019 RECRUITING CLASS16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 25, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University AvenueGATORS IN THE MLB
By Morgan McMullen 
Sports Writer
With the MLB in the heart of 
it’s regular season, here’s a look 
at how several former Gators are 
faring in the professional ranks.
Darren O’DayThe Baltimore Orioles right-
hander struggled coming out 
of the All-Star Break last week. Over his last three appearances, 
the Jacksonville native has 
surrendered ﬁ  ve earned runs and two homers in 2.2 innings of work out of the bullpen. O’Day also blew a save and took 
a loss against Houston in his last 
outing. O’Day and several other Baltimore relievers have been tied to trade rumors in recent 
days after the front ofﬁ  ce was 
reportedly given permission by owner Peter Angelos to explore the trade market.
Ryan RaburnAfter being called up by the 
Washington Nationals from Triple-A Syracuse on June 5, 
Raburn made the most of his 
opportunity for the rest of the month. The left ﬁ  elder from Tampa hit .297 in his ﬁ  rst 14 games with the Nationals and attempted to carry his hot 
streak into July. However, after 
peaking with a .314 average on  July 4, Raburn has since fallen into a downwards slump and is now just batting .262 
for the year. To make matters 
worse, Raburn was placed on bereavement leave on Saturday after learning about the death of his grandfather. 
Mike ZuninoThe 26-year-old catcher 
from Cape Coral is enjoying a career season with the Seattle 
Mariners. Zunino may only 
be batting .218, but he’s also tagged 14 home runs and 13 doubles in 71 games and is 
on pace to have his best year 
since 2014. While Zunino only has nine hits in the month of July, three of those have been homers and two have gone for 
doubles. 
Tim Tebow
Perhaps Tim Tebow’s 
struggles with the Single-A Columbia Fireﬂ  ies were overstated. Maybe he just needed a change of scenery. Whatever the troubles were, they seem to be over now. The legend has been on a tear since his call-up to the Single-A 
Advanced St. Lucie Mets on 
June 28. Tebow already has more homers (4) in his time with St. Lucie than he did in 
Columbia (3). He’s reached 
base in 22 of his 25 games played and has knocked in 15 RBIs so far. Compare that to just 23 RBIs in 64 games 
with the Fireﬂ  ies and it’s easy 
to see the improvement. The only question that remains 
unanswered is if Tebow can 
continue his hot streak with improved competition. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.orgRaburn placed on bereavement list, Tebow making strides 
Jayne Kamin-Oncea / Getty Images
Ryan Raburn tosses his helmet during the sixth inning of Washington’s 7-0 loss against the Los Angeles Angels 
on July 19, 2017, at Angel Stadium.
