We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 102 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
Women’s tennis wins national 
championship
UF beat UNC to win the National T eam Championship on Monday, pg. 13
UF, Gainesville celebrate Valentine’s Day
See our full coverage on how to celebrate today, pgs. 8 and 9
UF students plan to paint Gainesville crosswalks
After three years of planning, a group plans to paint a crosswalk 
by the end of Spring , pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
UF student Marcela Mulholland 
plans to spend Earth Day in the 
great outdoors — marching from campus to downtown in the name of science.
On April 22, residents of more 
than 220 cities across the country, including Washington, D.C., will take part in similar marches, some to protest President Donald Trump’s  administration and others, like Mul-holland, to protest policymakers who don’t acknowledge scientiﬁ  c truths.
“This isn’t an attack on any po-
litical party, it’s more about having 
people who believe in fact-based 
policies raise their voices,” she said. “If necessary, we’ll take to the streets to make sure politicians are listening to academics and experts.”Mulholland plans to march from 
UF to Bo Diddley Community Plaza with hundreds more people. Al-though a time and location has not been ﬁ  nalized, the political science and sustainability studies sopho-more said she will use the next two 
months to plan the route and invite 
organizations, speakers and musi-cians to march.
Mulholland, 19, said the nonpar-
tisan protest is meant to bring peo-ple together in the name of science.
Juan Zapata, the Gainesville 
event’s lead organizer, said the March for Science in Washington, D.C., was created in response to President Donald Trump’s anti-sci-ence and climate-change-denying 
administration.
The UF electrical engineering ju-
nior said he’s concerned about the 
current administration’s ties to the fossil fuel industry as well as the temporary silencing of the Environ-mental Protection Agency.
Zapata, 20, stressed the nonpar-
tisan nature of the march and said he hopes UF professors, researchers and scientists will join in. 
“This is not against anyone’s 
beliefs,” Zapata said. “This is not meant to cause a divide.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
UF students plan March for Science in Gainesville
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
PUPPY LOVE 
Rachel Mead, a 21-year-old UF animal sciences junior, smiles as she holds Gunner’s leash. The 2-year-old 
black lab mix is one of the residents of Gainesville Pet Rescue.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After posting a meme on Face-
book mocking the women’s marches, 
a Newberry commissioner refused to apologize during a City Commission meeting Monday.
Commissioner Ricky Coleman 
was the recipient of intense criticism online after  sharing a photo on his personal Facebook account of two fe-male protesters, along with a caption that read “Donald Trump got more fat women walking in one day than Michelle Obama did in eight years.”
His Facebook page later appeared 
to have been deleted.
During the public comment por-
tion of Monday’s regularly scheduled meeting, about ﬁ  ve attendees criti-cized him, but he refused to apolo-gize.
He said sharing the photo was 
within his First Amendment rights. 
Doug Folkerth, 65, confronted the 
commissioners about Coleman’s post and Marden’s comments, and said he was disappointed Coleman didn’t apologize.“I hope you 
understand that you are the face 
of this com-
munity,” the 
Gainesville resi-dent said. “We may be conser-vative, but that doesn’t mean we 
don’t respect each other.”
Pat Folsom, a 66-year-old New-
berry resident of 50 years, said New-berry has always been a safe place for women, and Coleman’s com-ments don’t change that.
“I feel safe anywhere in Newber-
ry,” she said. 
City Commissioner Jason McGe-
hee said he hasn’t taken a stance on the issue, but he wishes it was han-dled better.
“There’s a lot of things that I want 
Newberry to be known for, but not this,” McGehee said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Meme-sharing city commissioner confronted at meeting EVERYONE IS 
CELEBRATING IN THEIR 
OWN WAY.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Whether single or in a happy 
relationship, UF students will 
have to face Valentine’s Day to-day. 
Single students are celebrating 
without a signiﬁ  cant other, while 
long-distance couples plan for re-
unions over the weekend. 
For some on campus, the holi-
day doubles as their birthday. 
Diana Long, who serves Krish-
na Lunch on the Plaza of the Americas ﬁ  ve days a week, will 
celebrate her 72nd birthday with 
the thousands of students she’ll 
encounter. In addition to the usu-
al halava for dessert, she plans to 
bring chocolate cake decorated 
with frosting and strawberries, and chocolate chip cookies. 
“It was God’s plan for me to 
be born on this day, and it was to 
show love to other people,” Long 
said.
Every day, Long smiles as she 
hands out plates of vegetarian 
and vegan food. She said every-
one is welcome to have a piece of cake or a cookie. She plans to 
bring 10 sheet cakes and about 
300 cookies.
“Are you coming to lunch 
Tuesday?” she asked students last week. “It’s my birthday, and I’m 
bringing cake.”
Tuesdays are typically a slow 
day for Krishna Lunch, she said. 
As a birthday gift, she said she 
would like to see more than 1,000 
students come and eat cake with 
her.
But some students aren’t plan-
ning to celebrate the holiday until 
this weekend.  UF students prepare 
for Valentine’s Day
Coleman
SEE VALENTINE,  PAGE 8
The Newberry politician isn’t sorryWHAT’S HAPPENING?
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum 
Spend Valentine’s Day at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia. The mu-
seum is open from 7 p.m. to 
10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The fee is $30 per person or $50 per couple. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only. Pre-registration is required. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/
grid/valentine-event or call 352-
273-2061.
Kristian Black: Being a Person of 
Color in Medicine Kristian Black, a second-year medical student at the University of Michigan and the admissions ambassador at the 
University of Michigan Medical 
School, will speak about how he navigates his identity as a black man within a top-10 university today from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
iSTEAM Speaker Series 
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents UF engineering graduate and contestant on “MythBusters: The Search,” Tracy Fanara, who will speak at the Marston Science Library on Thursday at 2 p.m. in Room L136. Fanara, a scientist at the Mote Marine 
Laboratory, will speak about 
her “MythBusters” experience; research on Florida beaches and waterways; and storm chasing.
Isabel Moreira to examine early 
Christian attitudes on death and wealthIsabel Moreira will explore the 
relationship between wealth, 
almsgiving and perceptions of the afterlife in Europe between the fifth and eighth centuries. The talk will take place Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. It is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, email humanities-center@
ufl.edu or call 352-392-0796.
The Diversity Project: Dr. Kitty 
Oliver
The Center for Arts in Medicine is pleased to host UF alumna Dr. Kitty Oliver on Thursday and Friday. Oliver will present “An Evening of Jazz and Multicolored 
Memoirs” at The Thomas Center 
on Thursday at 7:30 p.m., “Race and Change Across Cultures and Generations” at Constans Theatre on Friday at 2 p.m., and “Telling YOUR Story, Changing OUR Lives: Using Oral Histories on Race and Change to Make a Difference” in Fine Arts Building B, Room 105, on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. These special presenta-
tions are intended to bring the community together to share ideas and promote discussion around issues of race and di-versity. Oliver’s visit is part of The Diversity Project, a program which explores issues around di-versity at UF through oral histo-
ries, interviews and story circles 
which will be translated into a multimedia theater presentation.
#NotAccommodating T-Shirt 
CampaignThe #NotAccommodating cam-paign is a visual protest to the changes marginalized people 
make to their identities in or-
der to fit into mainstream so-ciety. Through this campaign, they hope to shed light on the community’s stories and how they should rise above it. The first event of the series, #NotAccommodating T-Shirt Campaign: What is it?, will be 
Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in 
the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion Queerness and Disability is the second installment of the LGBTQ 
Affairs’ semester-long lunch se-
ries. They will look to examine and understand the intersection of LGBTQ+ identities and dis-abilities, and they will explore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related to different facets of these intersectional identities. This event is open 
to all people, whether you do 
or do not identify as LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will take place in the LGBTQ Affairs space in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Feb. 24 from noon to 1 p.m.
An evening of Finnish folk music 
Alachua County Library District presents “Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music” on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave. The perform-ing and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English and 
their native language, Finnish. 
This free musical program will be in Meeting Room A. For more information about library pro-grams, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-3343900.College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Solutions Seminar Featuring Chris KochCanadian farmer Chris Koch was born with no arms and 
legs, yet despite the challenges 
he faces, he chooses to take life in stride and make the best of every situation with which he is presented. He has not let limita-tions and obstacles stand in the way of achieving his goals. Chris will speak March 13 at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at 6 p.m. 
and again on March 14 at 9 a.m. 
in the Straughn Center. UF stu-dents and the greater Gainesville community are welcome to at-tend either session. Learn more and register for this free event at cals.ufl.edu.
“Words on Canvas” Harn writing 
competition Write yourself into the art mu-seum. “Words on Canvas” is a poetry and prose writing com-petition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines 
at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. 
The deadline to enter is March 17.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3 
 How can you practice af-firmative consent? Learn some strategies from Sexual 
Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence 
Education during GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. Check it out at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/ or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-4452 for more information and to request ma-terials.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 102
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  78° LOW  57°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Steve Spurrier speaks to a crowd of about 300 at the University Auditorium 
on Monday.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Cole Brothen arrived about an hour early to the 
University Auditorium on Monday night so Steve 
Spurrier could sign his mini plastic Gators helmet.
Spurrier, a former UF quarterback and coach, ad -
dressed about 300 people in the auditorium Monday night for Accent Speakers Bureau’s first event of the semester. Ted Spiker, the chair of the UF Department of Journalism, interviewed Spurrier, who wasn’t paid to speak, told the audience lessons he has learned 
from football. Fans like Brothen also asked the former 
coach questions.
“I’m a huge fan,” said Brothen, a UF business ad
-
ministration freshman. “Growing up, Spurrier was just a household name. All of my friends and family loved him.”
Spurrier, who worked as University of South Caro
-
lina’s football head coach from 2005 to 2013, became ambassador and consultant for the Florida Gators Athletic Department in Summer 2016, even having the field at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium named after him. 
At the event, he brought about eight pieces of 
paper with motivational lessons on them, copies of what he used to give his players at the start of each season.
Players said they still have the pages 25 years 
later, he said.
Spurrier said he learned there are two ways to be 
successful: Doing your job like your opponent and outworking them, or simply working differently. As a coach, he always chose the latter.
He wore visors in the 1990s because nobody else 
did, he said.
“Any time I got the chance to be a little different, I 
thought ‘why not?’” Spurrier said. 
When Spurrier was hired as UF’s coach, the uni
-
versity hadn’t won a championship in 57 years. Spur -
rier said he focused on finding new ways to do things. 
At the time, Gator football players shaved fresh -
men’s heads at the beginning of each season. Spurrier said when he told the students to stop, a senior player said it was a Florida tradition.
“I said, ‘You know what, there’s another tradition 
too: Going over to Jacksonville and letting Georgia 
kick our butts.’” Spurrier said. “‘So we’re going to 
start some new traditions here at the University of Florida.’”
Brothen, 19, said he enjoyed Spurrier’s wit and 
was surprised Spurrier remembered game scores and team standings clearly.
“The details he was able to provide into each of 
the games were very impressive,” Brothen said. 
During the Q&A section, a student asked Spur
-
rier what his relationship with UF football coach Jim McElwain was. 
“We have an excellent relationship,” Spurrier 
said. “I try to help him a little. Obviously, I couldn’t help him much this year, but hopefully we’ll improve 
next.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgSpurrier talks motivation, insight into winning at UF
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
A group of UF students are hop-
ing to give pedestrians a new rea-
son to stop at intersections: colorful crosswalks.
For about three years, members 
of Students for the New Urbanism at UF and Gainesville city officials have sporadically discussed plans to paint crosswalks throughout the city, said Ethan Hudgins, a Student Government senator and the founder of SNU.
In addition to supplementing 
the street with something artistic, 
Hudgins (Architecture, Impact) said 
the crosswalk art will make intersec-tions safer by causing drivers and pedestrians to slow down. 
He said the project lost momen-
tum at some point in the past, but he’s excited to see it through this Spring. He said he believes at least one crosswalk will be designed and 
painted before the semester ends. 
“We’re trying to reorient how 
people think about road space,” the 
UF sustainability and the built envi-ronment senior said. “We’re taking back a little bit of the street for pe-destrians, and I think that’s a very important statement to make.”
Hudgins, 22, said the organiza-
tion will need less than $500 for the project and will request funds from SG. Some of that money will be de-voted to the upkeep of the art, which will need to be repainted every two years. 
The first crosswalk art installment 
would ideally be between Southeast Second Avenue and Southeast First Street in downtown Gainesville, Hudgins said.
The proposals for the crosswalk-
art locations must be reviewed and approved by the city’s public works department, which hasn’t yet hap-pened, said Chip Skinner, the depart-ment’s marketing and communica-tions supervisor.
SG senator Brett Oehrle (District 
B, Impact) who believes this project 
will improve the overall ambiance of 
Gainesville, said he hopes that stu-dents in the College of the Arts will help in designing the crosswalks. If the project is successful throughout the city, he hopes UF can do some-thing similar on campus crosswalks. 
“Art is a really important part of 
everyone’s lives and improves the 
aesthetic of the town,” the 20-year-
old UF public relations junior said. “It’s just a really creative, cool way to get people involved in improving the city with the arts.”
Oehrle said he’s looking to bring 
about 10 different students onto the project, with at least one or two be-ing art majors. The project organiz-
ers are asking those who are inter-
ested to contact them through the organization.
“I’m very for promoting the arts 
and finding avenues for people to express themselves through art,” he said. “It’s hard for artists to get their work out there, so I think this is a creative way to give them an oppor-
tunity to do that.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgGainesville officials, 
UF students plan to paint city crosswalks 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Roxie Patton, the former direc-
tor of LGBTQ Affairs, intended to 
stay at their job for five years.
After about six months with 
UF’s Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs, Patton said they realized it 
wasn’t the right fit for them. Patton, who prefers they/them pronouns but also uses she/hers pronouns, will move to Virginia for a job at the College of William and Mary in March.
Patton said they’ll start March 
6 as the association director in the 
Center for Student Diversity Ser-
vices. Their last day as LGBTQ+ director was Friday, and Monday, students gath-ered in the LG-
BTQ Affairs of-
fice for Patton’s 
goodbye party.
“I was seek-
ing a different working envi-ronment,” Pat-
ton said. “In this field, sometimes things just don’t work out the way 
you anticipate them to work out, 
and it’s pretty normal. It just ulti-mately didn’t fit with the ideals of where I wanted to go.”
Patton said they felt bittersweet 
leaving UF, but are excited to begin the new job at William and Mary, which is a smaller campus with an integrated approach to diversity.“They have a strong commit-
ment to working on intersectional 
diversity, so getting more out of 
identity politics and working more on dismantling systems of oppres-sion,” Patton said.
Gigi Bermudez, a 24-year-old UF 
alumna who graduated May 2016, sat in on Patton’s presentation when she was a prospective hire. Bermudez said Patton had good 
ideas for the department and is sad 
to see them go.
“The most effective thing I 
could say about Roxie is she’s a white queer woman who just gets it,” Bermudez said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgSend-off party held for former 
director of UF’s LGBTQ Affairs
Patton
By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman called Gainesville 
Police on Monday to report she 
had shot someone inside her apartment, GPD said.
The woman, whose identity 
is still unknown, was southwest of city limits when she made the call at about 12:30 p.m., said Of-ficer Ben Tobias, GPD spokes-person. Alachua County Sher-iff’s Office deputies picked her up and brought her to the GPD headquarters for questioning. 
GPD forensic crime unit and detectives investigated the shoot-ing at the Ridge at Gainesville, located at 3718 SW 24th Ave., 
and closed portions of the street 
in front of the apartment com-plex Monday afternoon.
Although the condition of the 
victim is not known, as of press time, Tobias said the woman and victim knew each other.
Tobias said she has been co-
operative during the police in-
vestigation. 
Will Ferguson, a UF mechani-
cal engineering senior, who lives 
two apartments down from the crime scene, woke up at 4 a.m. Sunday from a loud bang. 
“I have no idea what it was,” 
the 22-year-old said. “A couple 
seconds went by, and then there 
was another (bang).”
When he saw the yellow tape 
in front of his apartment today, he told them about what he heard, and police took down his information.
“I’ve never heard a gun, so 
it could have been anything,” 
he said. “It might be completely 
unrelated.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgPolice investigate shooting at 
Gainesville apartment complexTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
SONGS BY THE POND
Photos by Max Chesnes, Alligator Staff
THEY WILL BE INDUCTED 
AT THE FLORIDA STATE 
FAIRGROUNDS TODAY.
By Jamie Honowitz 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Four men with ties to UF’s 
Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences are being recognized for 
helping advance the agricultural ﬁ  eld.
Two UF alumni are part of the 
group that will be inducted into the Florida Agricultural Hall of Fame today at the Florida State Fairgrounds.For 37 years, the hall of fame 
committee, made up of people in the agricultural industry, selects individuals who have helped advance the ﬁ  eld, said Ray Hodge, the president of the hall’s board of directors. Bernie Lester, Eugene Badger, Joe Marlin Hilliard and William Cook will become hall of fame members. 
Recognition in the hall of fame 
is the agricultural community’s highest honor, wrote Elaine 
Turner, the dean of UF’s College of 
Agricultural and Life Sciences, in 
an email. 
“This year’s inductees have made immense contributions to Florida’s agriculture industry,” she said. “We are proud to count these leaders among our alumni and friends.” 
Lester, 78, and Badger, 88, 
graduated from UF’s College of Agricultural and Life Sciences and were members of UF’s chapter of Alpha Gamma Rho, Hodge said. 
Cook, 86, was the president of 
the Florida Forestry Association and helped fund UF’s School of 
Forest Resources and Conservation, 
according to the hall of fame’s 
website. 
Hilliard, 75, a private rancher, said he’s worked with the institute’s Southwest Florida Research and Education Center to help reduce phosphorus in the state’s water. He’s also done research with Lester throughout the years.
“We hope the work we did 
30 years ago beneﬁ  ts the future generation and farmers today,” he said.
Hilliard, who runs his family’s 
ranch, which was founded in 1906, said he’s privileged to be included 
in the hall of fame.  
“I spent a lifetime of farming 
and ranching, and I’ve enjoyed 
every bit of it,” he said. 
UF alumni to be inducted into Agricultural  Hall of Fame
Cook
Lester
Badger
Hilliard
Michelle T aubler, a 19-year-old UF environmental engineering sophomore, sings while playing the guitar in the Reitz Union Amphitheatre.Brian Rodriguez, a Gainesville resident, plays in front of a crowd of about 50 students at the Acoustics on the Pond event hosted by Reitz Union Board Entertainment on Monday night.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Cultures and acceptance make America great
I have lived in France and Ivory Coast, two 
countries targeted by the Islamic State group and al-Qaida in 2016. I grew up in Caracas, 
Venezuela, one of the most dangerous cities 
in the world. Yet, I have never felt as unsafe 
as I did last week when I listened to a class de-bate in which students gave incredibly offensive 
speeches.
The French educational system made me learn 
by heart many historic speeches made by Ameri-
can presidents, the history of the U.S., as well as the path this country followed in order to reach its role as a world leader. I 
learned to admire this country and to aspire to live the Amer-
ican dream, a dream in which I could accomplish all of my goals. I chose the U.S. over France. I chose an education that is at least 30 times more expensive than the one my country 
offered me. I chose English before the richness of the French 
language. I chose the country that promised me a guaranteed future. I did this because I believed in America.
But what happened to the American dream? I was con-
vinced when I came to this country I would come to a place 
that championed freedom of speech, a country where no 
matter the color of your skin, your religion, your sex or your sexual orientation, your difference would be celebrated to create a better future together.
Remembering my history lessons, I was convinced the 
U.S., built up by immigrants from different countries, which accepts political refugees from all over the world, would not be such a host of intolerance.
After the presidential election, I had to witness endless 
political debates in my various classes, and I heard shocking opinions. I learned that in a country that supposedly repre-sents progress and innovation, a man felt he could decide what a woman can do with her own body and, consequent-
ly, her future. I also learned it is possible to dehumanize the 
supporters of religions that are rich in history and culture. I have learned that politicians’ explanations of en-vironmental issues such as climate change super-cede the words of scientists themselves.
When will American citizens react? I used to 
envy those who had the fortune to be American: They didn’t have to struggle with all the paper-work I had to go through for my visa (Yes, they 
actually stringently check who enters and leaves 
the country). I used to perceive Americans as citi-zens of the most venerated country in the world. 
Today, the country is watched closely by members of the international community who wonder how it got to where 
it is now.
I can honestly say I am proud to be a “daughter of the 
world.” I speak three languages; I have been to more than 
20 countries from four different continents. I have celebrated my first communion, been to my best friend’s bat mitzvah, 
studied in classrooms full of Muslims and visited Buddhist 
temples. I am proud to have such a multicultural background, not because I like to show off, but because I understand there is nothing quite like diversity. Differences are what made the 
richness of old America so great. 
Talk to people who are different from you. When you 
start seeing each other only as Republicans or Democrats 
and stop seeing everyone as Americans, you create hate and separation in the country. But America is made great by its 
culture and its acceptance. So please, be tolerant again.
Isabel Bonnet is a Santa Fe College journalism sophomore 
and former photo editor.Tell someone you 
love them today
Valentine’s Day gets a lot of backlash nowadays. And 
you know, some of it is warranted. Why are we re-ducing love to pink hearts, stuffed bears, dozens of 
roses and expensive restaurants? Why do we com-
pare what we give our significant others to what our 
friends give theirs and vice versa? Somehow, Valentine’s Day has ingrained itself in our culture; it was a day for class 
parties in elementary school, awkward dances in middle 
school, embarrassing singing telegrams in high school, tele-vision specials, dinner deals, sales on candy, and so on. It’s as if we try to cram all this obsession with romance into one day.
So we understand where the backlash comes from. Our 
society has a fixation on romantic relationships, especially over platonic and familial ones. This is made evident on Valentine’s Day, and a lot of naysayers out there will point 
this out and say their love cannot be commercialized, trivi-
alized or reduced to a stuffed bear and a helium balloon. 
And yes, we get all the critiques, all the bad things. We 
understand it.
But at the root of it all, shouldn’t Valentine’s Day cel-
ebrate all kinds of love? And isn’t love — for friends, for family, for your partner, for your pets — just a grand thing?  We’re not trying to be overly idealistic. We just want every-one to take a moment and reflect.
Times are contentious right now. There’s a political di-
vide in our country, crises overseas — and that’s just on a macro level. On a smaller scale, there are midterms. There are student loans. There’s worrying about finding a job.
Let’s be real; love isn’t going to fix these things. Love 
isn’t going to ease the tensions in our country or get us through our midterms or rid us of our debt. But love sure as heck makes those things a lot easier to deal with. Love is not, as the Beatles might claim, all you need. Love has 
you put others’ needs before your own. Love can be a loud 
thing — public proposals at Disney World against a setting sun, a child running to greet his or her deployed parent in the airport. Or it can be quiet — being the first one to get up and make coffee, leaving a little note to a friend who had 
a bad day.
The point is, love deserves to be celebrated. Maybe not 
with boxes of chocolates and dozens of roses, but in what-
ever way you feel like it should be celebrated. Maybe that 
means a handwritten letter to a long-distance friend. Maybe 
that means an Instagram post dedicated to your sibling. Maybe that means making breakfast for your partner. And maybe that does mean boxes of chocolates and dozens of roses. 
Because more often than not, we forget to let people 
know how much they mean to us and how much we love them. There are so many humans out there we barely like, let alone love. We might as well take the day to let those we 
do love know it. This Valentine’s Day, instead of making a 
joke about how lame the holiday is or frantically planning a perfect date, let the people you love know you love them. The world could use a little more love.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORIsabel Bonnet
opinions@alligator.org
“Differences are what made the 
richness of old America so great.”TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
I’ve spent the past two weeks reading and 
rereading the stories in Samuel P. Gar-
vey’s “The Tales of Captain Albert Alex-ander,” as well as examining the scribbles and equations in the margins of its pages. 
Professor Bishop says the drawings aren’t his, and I think he’s right. The handwriting isn’t his, but the designs, drawings and sys-tem speciﬁ  cations outlined in the writing all seem to be pointing toward me — or another automaton just like me.
Professor Bishop treated me to a movie 
last weekend, as he likes to do. He’s glad he took me with him because the ﬁ  lm projector 
broke down about halfway through the ﬁ  lm. 
Luckily, my left eye can double as an imaging lens in a pinch, and I’m always happy to lend an extremity to a local cinema in need. The movie we saw was “La La Land.”
I adore the soundtrack. I haven’t heard 
music so vibrant and lovely since my time on the S.S. Biscuiteer, where I worked as an ani-matronic singing robot until rain and humidity wiped me of many of my faculties and much of my vocal range. But if I remember anything about my time on the steamship, it’s the music. I remember jazz — 
the kind of jazz Sebastian loves 
and ﬁ  ghts so much for in “La La Land.”
In an effort to rediscover that 
music, I did some research into the current whereabouts of the Biscui-teer and discovered it’s still ﬂ  oating up and down the Mississippi River. Apparently, the steamship hosts a yearly robot exposition, 
which might explain how professor Bishop 
found me in the ﬁ  rst place. 
Professor Bishop is quite proud of my 
column-writing proﬁ  ciency and has agreed to install a musical keyboard that functions in tandem with my thoracic typewriter. I ﬁ  nd it rather difﬁ  cult to learn musical scales on a QWERTY setup, but it’s worth the struggle if I can nail “City of Stars” in the next few days. 
And while “La La Land” is 
weighing so heavily on my mind, I wanted to talk about the ﬁ  lm and its implications. Love is a tricky 
thing — it’s far beyond my coding, 
calculation and comprehension. So, let’s look at the art instead.
Sebastian wants to play and 
foster the creation of jazz. Sebas-tian praises jazz music to Mia and 
to the audience, citing its utility as a language and creative outlet. We get to see Sebastian play the piano — and he plays it well. It re-
ally can’t be argued that Sebastian is not a 
talented artist. We don’t get this same reas-surance with Mia. 
Mia wants to be an actress, but we hear 
Mia speak most passionately about writing. It’s a rather odd disconnect. Nonetheless, she aspires to produce a one-woman show, which is an attempt to culminate the two as-pirations. But even when she ultimately pro-duces and premieres the show, we never get to see it. The audience never gets any deﬁ  ni-tive proof that Mia is a talented artist. 
“La La Land” tries to set up this parallel 
between two artistic media and stumbles. 
It nails the core engagements of listening to 
and performing music very well, but it fails to convey the wonderment of writing a story and creating a world. It could be argued that the movie itself is a testament to the joy of a well-written and well-told story, but the mov-ie doesn’t really come off as metatheoretical.
Playing music is nice because it can be 
a nice parlor trick; you can do it at a party 
and win a few hearts. Writing a story doesn’t 
grant you the same luxury, and proﬁ  cient sto-rytelling requires more than the average par-lor trick. Storytelling is a deep and intricate art, and it deserves the same representation as the jazz I love so much.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineering 
junior. His column appears on Tuesdays. 
‘La La Land’: Music is wonderful, but you can't equate it to the writing processColumn
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
Ryan Totten, 22, is driving to 
Orlando on Saturday to celebrate 
with his girlfriend of five and a half years, Katie Gauger. 
Although his plans are delayed, Totten, a UF mechanical engineer-ing senior, said he’s not upset he 
won’t be able to see his girlfriend 
on Valentine’s Day. 
“It will be easier to get dinner 
reservations,” he said. 
Totten said he usually sees 
Gauger about every other week, but this trip will be special. Val-entine’s Day is a good excuse for 
the couple to treat themselves to a 
nicer-than-usual dinner. 
But for 19-year-old Andie Ut-
set, the holiday is just a Hallmark money-maker. 
The UF English sophomore said she won’t celebrate and plans to catch up on a few episodes of the 
TV show “Westworld” and order 
herself a rib dinner.
“(Today) should be a normal 
day,” she said. “If anything, I’ll try to avoid leaving the dorm.”
Utset said she’s most looking forward to buying the candy on sale Wednesday. 
“I’ll hit up Wal-Mart and Target 
for all the 75-percent-off candy,” she said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgVALENTINE,  from pg. 1Some UF students are celebrating Valentine’s Day aloneBy Maddie Harlow
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the help of a Valentine’s 
Day-themed kissing booth, UF stu-
dents received true love’s furry kiss Monday.
For a $2 donation, Gainesville 
Pet Rescue let students hug and kiss five puppies during its “Kiss for a Cause” fundraising event on the Plaza of the Americas. The dogs, Mocha, Latte, Nabu, Luna and Gun-ner, raised the organization $180, said Danielle Cummings, the non-profit’s development coordinator. 
“We figured since Valentine’s 
Day is tomorrow, why not do a Val-entine’s Day-themed kissing booth 
to raise some money and raise 
awareness,” Cummings said.
The organization rescues dogs 
and cats from Alachua County Ani-mal Services, or surrounding coun-ties’ animal services, before they’re 
euthanized. The animals are even-
tually placed in permanent homes, and the five dogs at Monday’s event are all up for adoption. 
“Our rescue is no-kill, but ani-
mal services does have to euthanize for space,” Cummings said. “And we’re very close to becoming a no-kill county, so this year, that’s our 
goal.”
Shelby Johnson, a UF agricul-
tural and biological engineering 
fifth-year, brought siblings Mocha and Latte, who are both 3-month-old chocolate lab mixes Johnson is fostering. 
Three-month-old Shepherd mix-
es, siblings Nabu and Luna, and 2-year-old black lab mix, Gunner, also played with students at the event. The five dogs enjoyed Star-bucks “Puppuccinos,” whipped cream drinks made for dogs, while posing for photos. 
Rachel Mead, the volunteer co-
ordinator at Gainesville Pet Rescue, said she thinks this was the most positive response the organization has gotten from an event. 
“Once we came out, there 
were already people before we set up, lined up to pet the dogs,” the 21-year-old UF animal sciences ju-nior said.
If anyone is interested in adopt-
ing a pet, applications can be filled out at the organization, located at 5403 SW Archer Road, Mead said.
Johnson, who has been fostering 
puppies for about five years, said she’s been fostering Mocha and Latte for about two weeks. 
“It’s like I can kind of have a dog 
without having a dog,” the 22-year-old said. “So without the full-length responsibility, but just two weeks of puppy love.”
UF students participate in canine kissing booth on campus
By Courtney Moberley 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Thanks to researchers from 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-cultural Sciences, you may be able to buy higher quality flowers next Valentine’s Day.
Wagner Vendrame, a UF profes-
sor who teaches classes on orchids for undergraduate and graduate students, has been studying the endangered flowers since 2001. To fight the decrease of orchids, Vendrame has worked to clone the flowers and develop ways to freeze their seeds.
“The interest in orchids is in-
creasing,” said Vendrame, 52, who works at the institute’s exten-sion in Homestead, Florida.   
To clone the flowers, he uses a 
process called micropropagation, where researchers place plant tissue in petri dishes with nutri-ents to multiply them. Vendrame said he can turn 50 pieces of the flowers into 300 orchids in three months. 
He also freezes seeds or other 
plant tissues through cryopreser-
vation, the same technique used 
to preserve human bodies. The specimens can be quickly thawed years after they’re frozen.
“We can insert them with liquid 
nitrogen that allows those seeds to be frozen forever,” he said. Vendrame said the best Valen-
tine’s Day flowers are the orchid breeds Phalaenopsis or Dendro-
bium.
“If you give your girlfriend or 
your wife a dozen roses, they will 
last mostly a week if you’re lucky,” he said. “With Phalaenopsis you give a plant in bloom, or buds to open, and they will stay open for three months, for the same price or maybe even cheaper.”
Nicole Pinson, a horticulture 
agent at the institute’s Hillsbor-ough extension, said landscape plants make better Valentine’s Day gifts.
“The great thing about a plant 
that would go in the garden is that you would hopefully have a plant that rewards you with flowers year after year,” the 39-year-old said.
Pinson recommends caladi-
ums, gerbera daisies, hydrangeas, hibiscus and rosemary. Rosemary, although usually used as a spice, grows well in Florida and is easy to care for, she said.
“Rosemary is also a symbol 
of remembrance, so you can give them as a Valentine’s day pres-
ent,” she said. 
She said gifts don’t have to be a 
bouquet of red roses. 
“Think outside the box,” Pin-
son said. “Forgo the cut flowers, 
and think about who you’re giving it to.”
After freezing flowers, UF researcher gives Valentine’s tipsFive dogs raised $180 
FLORISTS IN GAINESVILLE 
• Prange’s Plantscapes and 
Florist, 16 E. University Ave. 
• The Plant Shoppe Florist, 303 NW 8th Ave. 
• Gainesville Floral Exchange, 635 NW 13th St. 
• Gainesville Flower, 3545 SW 34th St. 
• The Flower Shop, 3749 W. University Ave. 
• Floral Expressions Florist, 
4414 NW 23 Ave. 
By Scottie Andrew
Alligator Contributing Writer
If your ideal valentine is a sink full of 
tortilla chips, Chuy’s is the place to go.
With 100.5 The Buzz, Chuy’s restau-
rant, located at 3410 SW Archer Road, is 
hosting its first “Nacho Valentine” event, 
said Kevin McKay, the program director for 
the radio station. Today, from noon to 2 p.m., participants can plunge their hands deep into a sink filled with tortilla chips for the chance to pull out one of 14 prizes.
Those who brave the sink can win sun-
glasses, a beanbag bed or concert tickets to see Panic! At the Disco, Bastille or Wel-come to Rockville, McKay said. The grand 
prize is tickets to see Twenty One Pilots in 
Tampa on Feb. 28.
“A lot of promotions around Valentine’s 
Day are all lovey-dovey stuff, so cliché,” he said.  
McKay said the goal was to host an event that both couples and singles can 
enjoy. 
During the event, Chuy’s will offer 10 
percent off nachos and tres leches cakes, 
said Sakura Yonemaru, a manager at Chuy’s. Happy hour pricing will also apply to raspberry margaritas.
She said they have hosted events with 
the radio station before, and the events usually draw a large turnout.
“We were looking to do something fun 
and funky,” she said.
Each year McKay hosts seasonal events. 
In May, he celebrated Cinco De Mayo at Chuy’s with a similar event, called “Sinko De Mayo,” in which participants sloshed around in a sink filled with mayonnaise to win one of 21 prizes.
McKay said about 150 people came to 
the event in May, but he’s hoping for more than 200 today.
“It definitely won’t be as messy as the 
mayonnaise,” he said. ‘Nacho Valentine’s Day’ to 
be held at Chuy’s today
The Associated Press
ISLAMABAD (AP) — A Pakistani judge 
on Monday banned all Valentine’s Day cele-
brations in the country’s capital, Islamabad, saying they are against Islamic teachings.
The judge ruled on a petition seeking to 
ban public celebrations of the Western holi-day, court official Niaz Saleh said. He said the order had been sent to Pakistan’s media regulator to ensure a blackout on any Valen-tine’s Day promotions in print or electronic media.
The ban applies only to Pakistan’s capital 
as the Islamabad high court has no jurisdic-tion beyond the city.
The regulator in a statement directed 
all Pakistani media outlets not to print or broadcast anything that promotes Valen-tine’s Day. No event shall be held at any of-ficial level and at any public place, the state-ment quoted a part of the court order.
Later on Monday, the government issued 
an order to local police to enforce the court ban. A similar order was in place last year in Islamabad.
Islamist and right-wing parties in Paki-
stan view Valentine’s Day as vulgar West-
ern import.
However, the annual homage to romance 
on Feb. 14 has become popular in recent years across the Middle East and also in 
Pakistan.
Though some Muslim countries such as 
Saudi Arabia also have sought to stamp out Valentine’s Day, with the religious police 
mobilizing ahead of Feb. 14 and descending on gift and flower shops to confiscate all red 
items, including flowers, it is still celebrated 
widely in other places such as Dubai.Pakistani court bans 
Valentine’s Day in capitalWORLDTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
TAKING CARE 
OF BUSINESS
352-226-3879
tcbautoinc.com
2027 NE 27th AveAUTO SALES
by appointment only
By Isa Perez
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you’re a fan of ABC’s “The 
Bachelorette,” consider clearing your 
schedule Feb. 25.
Two contestants from the 2016 
season of “The Bachelorette,” a real-ity dating show in which about 30 men compete for the love of a wom-an, are going to play a show and meet fans in Trenton, Florida — a 30 minute drive from Gainesville.
Luke Pell, 32, and James Taylor, 
29, will be playing music and meet-
ing fans, said Kate Douberly, the 
event coordinator.
The event, which will take place 
at Douberly Farms, at 14451 NE 
County Road 339, is set to begin at 6 
p.m. and is scheduled to go on until 
2 a.m. Merchandise will be for sale, and alcohol will be served.
General admission tickets are $10 and meet-and-greet tickets 
are an additional 
$25. Tickets for 
an exclusive after party with the two bachelors are $40 
more, she said.
“For months 
we spoke about how we could 
draw in the public to experience the events,” said.  As a fan of the 
show, she origi-
nally reached out 
to Pell and Taylor 
in hopes of hav-
ing them perform a show.
“James and 
Luke seemed like 
two of the most down-to-earth peo-ple on the show,” she said. 
Stephanie Brook, 20, said her fa-vorite contestant on the 2016 season was Pell.
The UF business administration 
sophomore said she started watch-
ing the show in college with her 
friends as a Monday-night ritual and 
all of her friends are die-hard fans.
“Whether they’re your favorite 
Bachelorette boys or not, this event 
is going to be such a cool experi-
ence,” Brook said.  ‘The Bachelorette’ contestants coming to North Florida
Taylor
 Pell
Patticakes and First Magnitude Brewing Company 
• Cupcake and beer pairing from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m.  
• At First Magnitude, located at 1220 SE Veitch St. 
A Valentine’s Night at the Museum  
• Trivia and scavenger hunt 
• At the Florida Museum of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull Road, 
from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
• Guest must be 18 years or older and tickets are $30 per person or $50 
per couple. 
Dinner for two menu with wine 
• At Downtown Wine and Cheese, located at 113 N. Main St., from 6:30 
p.m. to 9 p.m.
The Fat Tuscan Cafe dinner and cooking class 
• At 725 NE First St. from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
50 Shades of Swamp singles party 
• At the Swamp Restaurant, 1642 W. University Ave., from 9 p.m. to midnightFree love cake appetizer per dine-in table  
• At the Flying Biscuit Cafe, 4150 NW 16th Blvd., from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Splitz Bowling adult and children’s Valentine’s Day events
•  At 1301 NW 76th Blvd., free bounce house and 99 cent kid’s bowling from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
• $6 bowling and trivia from 9:30 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Swing Dance at Santa Fe College’s Fine Arts Hall 
• 3000 NW 83rd St., from 6 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Tickets are $10 per person. 
Learn how to make chocolate valentine candies
• At the Alachua County Library District T ower Road branch, 3020 SW 75th St., from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Valentine’s Day karaoke
• At the University Club, 18 E. University Ave., from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
• Those who are 18 years and older are permitted with no cover. 
Four-course meal 
• At Backstreet Blues Chophouse and Oyster Bar, 6500 SW Archer Road, from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
• Dinner is $100 per person.Date Night
2016Valentine’s Day Roundup 2017TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
University Terrace Apt for rent. 
$375/mo. Two rooms available.
352-870-2792 Call or text for details.     2-15-
17-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com      2-15-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Female only. Sublease a furn BR in 3/2 pent-house at fabulously close to campus Social 28. Avail 5/1 to 7/31, 2017. $825/mo. Pool, gym, internet, utils & flat screen TV in BR are incl. Please call Tammy 954-599-6433     2-20-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
FitBit Blaze with charger and band, great condition,
Battery life of 3-4 days, $115 (904) 930-9966.     2-14-17-2-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-20-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
DELIVERY DRIVERS WANTED
FOR FLOWER SHOP FOR VALENTINES.
Must have own vehicle w/ proof of license & 
insurance. Apply in person 635 NW 13th St.    
2-14-17-3-14
Typist needed for book. 10 to 20 
hours per week , call 317-5427
2-20-5-14
Assessment Writers/EditorsProgress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
VALENTINE?Wil/l.end yo/u.end b/e.end our
WITH LOVE13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
ACROSS
1 Bindle-toting
migrants
6 “Oliver!” no-
goodnik
11 Bygone intl.
carrier
14 Face in the
crowd, in film
15 With no help
16 A, in Aachen17 Crude early
version of a workof art
19 Bottom-row PC
key
20 Natural salve
additive
21 Slightly23 Financial claim26 Coin-in-a-fountain
thought
28 Pakistani
language
29 “The Lord of the
Rings” beast
30 Computer
programmingglitch
33 What
marathoners loadup on
35 WWII conference
site
36 Like swimming
competitions
39 Getting by43 Rants and raves45 Bold46 New York City
zoo locale
51 Slithery fish
52 Et __: and others53 Harp constellation54 Daly of “Cagney
& Lacey”
55 Sun protection for
kissers?
58 Former Russian
ruler
60 “__ no use!”
61 Lakeside
launching aid ...
and, literally, each
set of circledletters
66 Pot pie veggie67 When Macbeth
kills Duncan
68 French-speaking
Caribbean
country
69 FDR successor
70 2000s TV series
set in California
71 SnoozeDOWN
1 Seagoing pronoun
2 Good Grips
kitchenware
brand
3 A/C capacity
meas.
4 Church
instrument
5 Satirist Mort6 Secret agent’s
passport, say
7 Some craft beer8 Advanced in
one’s career
9 At no addl. cost
10 Grape soda
brand
11 Italian playhouse
12 “I’m on it, boss”
13 Pre-poker deal
demand
18 Planted, as seed22 New Orleans
university
23 “Livin’ La Vida
__”: Ricky Martinhit
24 Baghdad’s land25 Beige shade27 Crafty
30 To be, in
Barcelona
31 __-mo replay
32 Perform
miserably34 Bill for drinks
37 “Hometown
Proud”
supermarketchain
38 Roomie in prison40 Earl __ tea41 Pizza cooker42 Actor Chandler of
“Bloodline”
44 CIA operative46 Muslim bigwig47 Upper crust
groups48 Attacks, puppy-
style
49 Super cold50 Motorola phone54 __ by jury56 Blind as __57 Ness, for one59 Massage
reactions
62 Padre’s brother63 Whopper64 Summer, in 68-
Across
65 Fabric mishap
By Mark McClain©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/14/1702/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, February 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Gators forward Justin Leon only 
shot two three-pointers in high 
school, both in his senior year.
He went 1-for-2.Now Leon shoots a lot more, 
and his shooting percentage isn’t 
that much lower — his 41.8-per-
cent mark from beyond the arc is 
UF’s best and ranks 6th in the SEC 
despite having no Division I offers 
out of high school. 
Today, Leon will suit up for the 
nation’s No. 15 team when UF (20-
5, 10-2 SEC) travels to Auburn. 
Florida beat the Tigers 95-63 
in Gainesville last season, but UF coach Mike White said Auburn 
(16-9, 5-7 SEC) has more depth 
and talent than it did in 2016. 
“They’re very, very danger-
ous,” White said. “They’ve got 
seven guys that can make threes.”
White singled out freshman 
guard Mustapha Heron, who shoots above 43 percent from be-
yond the arc and leads Auburn 
with 15.3 points per game. 
“Super talented. Scores at all 
three levels,” White said. “(He) can go get his own shot … can score on isolations, can score on ball screens.”
Only Vander-
bilt takes more three-pointers 
than Auburn in the SEC, and 
the Tigers shoot 
35.9 percent 
from deep, com-
pared to 35.7 
percent for the 
Gators. 
But Florida has its own three-
point threat in Leon. The senior 
made a season-high four three-
pointers in UF’s 71-62 win against 
Texas A&M on Saturday. 
Leon said he doesn’t stop work-
ing on his shot when practice ends. 
He and forward Devin Robin-
son pick seven spots around the arc after practice and don’t leave 
until they make 20-of-30 from 
each. 
“If we don’t, we just restart 
from where we’re at until we make it,” Leon said. 
“Sometimes we’ll get stuck at 
a spot for like three or four times, 
and we’ll just sit there.”
But Leon said he doesn’t mind. 
That just means he gets more prac-tice. 
And with only six games left, 
Leon knows it’s essential to stay 
focused as the regular season 
wraps up. 
He said UF’s lack of focus re-
sulted in a string of conference 
losses at the end of last season that kept UF out of the NCAA Tourna-
ment for the second year in a row. 
“That was the problem,” Leon 
said. “Probably every player on the 
team, including myself, we were worrying about the wrong things 
and worrying about our own num-bers.”
But Leon said the Gators are 
more confident this time around 
because they’re more mature, blocking out distractions. 
He’s more focused on trailing 
his point guards, Kasey Hill and 
Chris Chiozza, to get open tomor-
row at 7 p.m.
Leon said sometimes he doesn’t 
even need to call for the ball. It's as if his guards can sense him.
“I may say (something)," Leon 
said, "but I think deep down they 
already know that I’m back there."
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org
After a rough start to SEC play, 
UF women's basketball coach Amanda Butler has her team going back to the basics. Read the story, pg. 15
Spurrier doesn't believe T ebow is UF's best QB ever
In an interview on Monday night, former Florida football coach Steve 
Spurrier ranked Tim T ebow as the second-best quarterback in Florida 
history. Danny Wuerffel was No. 1 on Spurrier's list, with Shane Matthews 
coming in third. By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
A week ago, it seemed that there 
might not be enough gymnasts to 
compete, let alone at a high level, when the No. 3 Gators took on then-No. 9 Georgia on Friday in O’Connell Center.
A stomach virus that spread to 
almost the entire Florida team led to canceled practices throughout the week, forcing the coaching staff’s hand in having to change the lineup at the last minute.
As a result, junior Kennedy 
Baker, who has emerged as one of Florida’s top all-arounders, win-ning the title in three attempts, was limited to just competing on bars.
In her absence, freshman Sierra 
Alexander was thrust into the vault lineup in only her second meet of the season.
For all of those obstacles, how-
ever, Florida thrived, scoring a 197.975, its highest team score of the season and the second-best score in the nation this season.“Workouts last week were pret-
ty minimal,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “However, (we) had 
a fantastic competition Friday eve-
ning. … Really, I think it’s a great 
testament to their hard work and dedication in the preseason.”
The virus kept junior Alex Mc-
Murtry from making her season de-
but on floor, but it didn’t keep her 
from notching a perfect 10 on bars, the second 10 of the season so far 
for the Gators (Baker, floor). 
Although McMurtry didn’t have 
her chance in front of the home 
crowd, she may get the opportu-nity to compete on floor Friday at 
No. 23 Arkansas.
“We are looking to possibly 
put her in this Friday,” Rowland 
said. “Her strength is coming back, she’ll be training this week and we 
will see come Friday if she is ready 
to go.”
If she is able to compete, 
McMurtry will contribute to an 
already dominant lineup in the 
event for Florida, which was led by Despite illness, success is infectious for Gators gymnastics
Three-ball is key tonight at Auburn
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
As the ball floated high in the 
air, Ingrid Neel’s eyes focused in. 
“Here it is,” a man muttered in 
the crowd. 
Neel raised the racquet above 
her head and struck the tennis 
ball, leaving no chance of return as her teammates rushed onto the court to hug her. In a trying 
match with tough singles compe-
tition, the No. 1 Gators women’s tennis team defeated No. 2 North Carolina 4-2 in the National Team 
Indoor Championship to give Flor-
ida its first tournament title since 1999. 
The Gators opened the match 
in dominant doubles fashion. Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Wool-cock exited the court first after downing North Carolina’s Rachael 
James-Baker and Chloe Ouellet-Pizer 6-0. Anna Danilina and Neel 
were not far behind, as the duo defeated Jessie Aney and Cassan-dra Vazquez 6-2. 
Singles play proved to be far 
more difficult, though, with the two teams fighting back and forth. Three courts went into three sets and two courts went to tiebreaker 
sets. 
Brooke Austin was first off the 
court, winning a decisive 6-1, 6-1 
match over Ouellet-Pizer. In her 
first time playing the two position 
this season, Danilina struggled to keep up with her competition, Sara Daavettila, and fell 6-1, 6-2. 
After losing her first set 6-4, 
Kourtney Keegan recovered to put away Vazquez, winning her final two sets 6-1, 6-1. This gave the Gators a 3-1 lead until UNC’s Al-
exa Graham defeated Kuhlman in 
a grueling match, as Kuhlman fell UF women's tennis team 
wins National Team 
Indoor ChampionshipGrace King / Alligator Staff
Gymnastics coach Jenny Rowland (right) laughs with assistant coach Ashley Kerr during Florida's 
meet against Auburn on Jan. 27 in the O'Connell Center. 
 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15
SEE WTENNIS,  PAGE 15Leon
MEN'S BASKETBALL 14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thFLORIDA SOCCER’S 2017 SIGNING CLASS
Player Position High School/Previous School Hometown (Club T eam)
Madison Alexander Forward Hamilton High School Dorr, Michigan (Alliance Academy)
Lais Araujo Midﬁ  elder Colegio Estudio Maria A. 
Stantos/ ASA CollegeSalvador, Brazil
Samantha Earle Forward Gulliver Prep School Key Biscayne, Florida (Sunrise Sting)
Lauren Evans Midﬁ  elder Newsome High School Lithia, Florida (T ampa Bay United)
Deanne Rose Forward St. Thomas Aquinas CCS Alliston, Canada (Scarborough GS United)
Ailey T ebbett Goalkeeper Oak High School Gainesville, Florida (Florida Elite Soccer Academy)By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
On Monday, 
Florida soccer coach Becky Bur-
leigh announced 
that six athletes 
will be joining the Gators for the 
2017 season.
“We’re really 
excited about 
this class coming in,” Burleigh said. 
“It’s a small class, but I think a very 
impactful class.”
The class will join an experienced 
roster, which boasts back-to-back SEC Tournament titles and advanced 
to the Sweet Sixteen in the NCAA 
Tournament last season. 
However, Burleigh is conﬁ  dent 
that the new class will be able to 
help ﬁ  ll the void left by the accom-
plished seniors who graduated after 
last season, including Savannah Jor-dan, who ranks second on Florida’s all-time career-goals list.
“We lost a great senior class,” 
Burleigh said. “I think this class is going to help a lot. I think the return-ers are going to ﬁ  ll some of that void. … These freshman coming in will only add to that.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Florida soccer announces signees of 2017 recruiting class 
Burleigh
By Sean Denison 
Sports Writer
At last year’s SEC swimming and 
diving championship meet, Caeleb 
Dressel was the star.
The then-sophomore scored a 
meet-leading 96 individual points 
and contributed on relay teams that 
earned a combined 248, leading UF to the conference title for the fourth season in a row.
Today, the Gators men’s and 
women’s teams will compete in the SEC Championship meet again, this time in Knoxville, Tennessee. And after last season’s results, the men’s team is hoping to continue its domi-nance while the women’s team — which ﬁ  nished in sixth place a sea-son ago — will try to capture its ﬁ  rst conference crown since 2009. 
“(They’re) certainly not going 
to be the favorite at the conference meet,” Troy said of the women’s team following its loss to Tennessee. 
The meet — which is a ﬁ  ve-day event — is being held at Tennessee’s 
Allan Jones Intercollegiate Aquatic 
Center and will conclude on Feb 18. 
Florida’s men’s team, which cur-
rently ranks No. 6 in the nation, was 3-1 in the conference this year, with its only loss coming against then-No. 8 Georgia on Oct. 28. 
In their 178-122 loss to Georgia 
earlier this season, Florida athletes 
Samuel Smith, Dressel and Jan Swit-
kowski all competed.
Smith won both the 1-meter and 
3-meter events, Dressel went on to win the 50-free in 19.56, and Swit-kowski won the 200 IM at 1:47.20. 
Georgia, however, won’t be the 
only talented team the Gators men’s team will have to worry about. The 
SEC has two more schools ranked in-
side the top 10 in No. 7 Auburn and No. 10 Alabama. 
Florida’s women’s team, mean-
while, has struggled in the SEC this season, ﬁ  nishing 1-4 in the confer-ence. Its only victory within the con-ference was a 188-112 win against Arkansas more than three months 
ago. 
Like the men’s team, the wom-
en’s team (No. 19) will also be chal-
lenged against No. 4 Georgia, which won a national title last season, and No. 11 Auburn, both of which the Gators lost to this season. 
“It’s just a really, really good 
Georgia team,” Troy said back in 
October. 
The women’s team fell to Ten-
nessee 151-149 in its last contest of 
the season on Jan. 28. The loss was the closest defeat of the season and the team’s second loss in a row.  
The men’s team, meanwhile, ﬁ  n-
ished the regular season on a four-meet winning streak, beating Ten-
nessee 183-117 in its last meet of the 
regular season.
Beginning Thursday, the SEC 
Swimming and Diving Champion-ship will be broadcast on SEC Net-work+. 
@SeanDenison 
sdenison@alligator.org UF swim and dive to compete at SEC Championship in Knoxville
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel (bottom) high-ﬁ  ves a teammate during Florida’s win 
over T ennessee on Jan. 28 in the O’Connell Center.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
As loss after loss continued to 
pile on to the Gators’ conference 
record earlier this month, Amanda Butler finally hit her breaking point. She couldn’t take it anymore.
Following a careless, nine-point 
defeat against Ole Miss on Feb 6., the coach — in her 10th season at the helm of UF women’s basketball — called out her players for their lack of effort on the defensive side of the ball, describing their play as “poor” and “disappointing.”
“I’ve been around the block 
long enough to know how good our league is,” Butler said after the game. “You’ve got to take great pride in defending the other team and rebounding the ball on every single possession. We did not do 
that.”
The disheartening performance 
against the Rebels dropped UF’s re-
cord to 2-8 in the SEC, giving UF its worst start to conference play in 
over a decade and causing Butler 
to vow to not “repeat this type of 
performance again.”
So far, Butler has come through 
on that promise.
Over their past two games, the 
Gators' defense has mightily im-proved, limiting its opponents to a combined 54.5 points per game, 34.7-percent shooting from the field and 21.1-percent shooting from behind the three-point arc.
Most importantly, Florida’s 
strong play resulted in a couple of victories, which have been rare 
this season.
How did Butler turn around 
UF’s defense in contests against 
Arkansas and Alabama?
Quite simply, she went back to 
the fundamentals.
Over the past week, the UF head 
coach spent the majority of her practices running basic drills on 
help-side defense and closing out 
opponents.
“(We) literally took it back to 
the types of drills that you would do in the preseason,” assistant 
coach Shimmy Gray-Miller said. “I 
don’t think there’s a lot of teams 
right now doing (those drills) in 
practice in February.”
The results, however, have 
worked in Florida’s favor.
The Gators were solid in con-
taining dribble penetration against the Razorbacks and Crimson Tide, 
holding both teams under 60 
points. Florida was allowing 78.3 points per game in the SEC before then.
Florida also outrebounded Ar-
kansas and Alabama 92-61 com-
bined, following impressive per-
formances on the glass from senior forward Ronni Williams and fresh-
man guard Delicia Washington.
Considering the fact that Gray-
Miller called the Razorbacks and 
Crimson Tide “two of the more 
athletic teams” in the conference, 
the second-year UF assistant coach 
is pleased with the direction her 
players are headed, crediting But-ler for taking the simple approach when addressing their defensive 
deficiencies.
“It paid off,” she said on the 
team’s recent practices. “You can 
see we did a much better job.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
THEN VS. NOW
Florida’s First 10 SEC GamesOpponent PPG: 78.3Opponent RPG: 37.1Opponent FG%: 43.7Opponent 3FG%: 38.5 Florida’s Previous Two SEC GamesOpponent PPG: 54.5Opponent RPG: 30.5Opponent FG%: 34.7Opponent 3FG%: 21.1Gators get boost after going back to the basics in practice
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler draws up a play during Florida's 84-75 loss to Ole Miss on Feb. 6 in the O'Connell Center. After that loss, Butler called out her players, and they've played better since then. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
sophomore Alicia Boren’s score of 9.95 against the Bulldogs.
The issues that plagued Boren 
in her freshman season — taking competitions too seriously and not smiling enough — have disap-peared. 
After almost every tumbling 
pass this season, she has flashed a huge grin, interacting with her team and the crowd as she com-petes.
“Last year she was a little bit 
more focused and concerned about hitting her routines, about making everything as perfect as she can,” Rowland said. “This year, she re-ally has just been able to let that go and have fun.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg.13Boren is 
showing more positivity in 
20176-3, 7-6. 
This put the match into the 
hands of Woolcock and Neel, the 
last two Gators on the court. In 
a competitive, back-and-forth match, Neel found her rhythm in the third set to defeat fellow 
Rochester, Minnesota, native and 
best friend Aney 6-4, 1-6, 6-3 to give Florida the Indoor Champi-onship title. 
“You could tell it was going to 
be hard to go all the way through and get it done, but credit to our players,” coach Roland Thorn-qvist said in a video posted to 
FloTennis.com. “They were resil-
ient, and our freshman at the end was just remarkable.”
While Thornqvist said the 
team plans to enjoy the win for 
the next couple of days, he not-
ed that the Gators will have to get back to work upon returning home. Florida will face the na-
tional champion runner-up and 
the defending national champion this weekend. 
“We have very little time for 
us to bask in our glory here,” 
Thornqvist said. “We’ll probably take a couple days off, but we’ve 
got to get right back onto the drawing board.”Florida will look to do just 
when it hosts host No. 5 Okla-homa State on Saturday and rival No. 4 Stanford on Sunday.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
WTENNIS,  from pg.13Thornqvist: 'W e have very little time... to bask in our glory'
Alligator File Photo
Josie Kuhlman prepares to hit the ball with a forehand during Florida's win over USF on Jan. 27, 2016.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
IT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION 
Happy Valentine’s Day, 
sports fans.
‘Tis the season for 
holding your loved ones 
closer, the one time a year 
when you’re societally obligated to buy ﬂ  owers, chocolates and post on Instagram about how #thankful and #blessed you are to have your signiﬁ  cant other in your life.Or, if you’re a lonely human 
with no friends, it’s the one day a year where you’re allowed to hate the world and everyone else around you unequivocally, no questions 
asked.
Sticking with this Valentine’s 
Day theme, let’s take a journey 
around the current sports landscape and discuss who we should fawn over with ﬂ  owers and heart emojis and who we should hate with all the burning passion of a single person alone at 
midnight with a tub full 
of vanilla ice cream.
Or, in simpler 
terms, who should we love and who should we hate?
Love: The New 
England Patriots
No matter who you cheered 
for in the Super Bowl — and God knows I wasn’t rooting for the Patriots — it’s hard not to marvel at the success of the Pats.
Coach Bill Belichick and 
quarterback Tom Brady have won ﬁ  ve Super Bowls together — the most all time — all while ﬁ  ghting through at least two widely 
publicized scandals — Spygate (in 
which the Patriots were caught secretly recording another team’s coaches during a game) and Deﬂ  ategate (in which Brady was caught deﬂ  ating the team’s balls — you probably already know) — and openly feuding with the damn NFL commissioner, Roger Goodell.
More than anything, though, 
I loved watching Goodell put on a fake smile and uncomfortably announce that the Patriots were Super Bowl champions after they had won, his voice drowned out by the raining chorus of boos echoing throughout NRG Stadium.
The man who had personally 
spearheaded the investigation into the Patriots’ deﬂ  ating of footballs, as well as the man who had 
suspended Brady for the ﬁ  rst four 
games of the season, was reduced to faking compliments about a team and a player who he so desperately and obviously wanted to watch lose.Ah, good times.New England 
still won even through criticism and controversy, and 
there’s nothing any of 
us can do or say about it.
You have to love 
that.
Hate: The Miami 
Heat
I am a huge Miami Heat fan. 
Loved them all my life. 
But I’ve had enough of these 
bozos.
Let me explain.The Heat let 12-time All-Star, 
three-time NBA champion and #HeatLifer Dwyane Wade walk away last summer to the Chicago Bulls because they didn’t want to pay him a few more million 
dollars per year. Then they get ex-
Oklahoma City Thunder rotational player and LeBron James’ leftover Dion Waiters in return. 
“All right,” I thought to myself, 
“at least we get to see our young players (2015 draft picks Justise Winslow and Josh Richardson) develop, and the Heat are pretty 
much guaranteed to earn a high 
draft pick in 2017 as long as they play poorly. 
“I won’t watch this season, we’ll 
lose a bunch of games, and we’ll get our superstar of the future in the draft.”
But then Winslow got injured. 
Out for the season.
Then Richardson got injured. 
He’s missed a bunch of games. I’m too pissed to check how many.
Then, on top of all that, I check 
the Heat’s schedule the other day and they’ve won 13 straight games.
GUYS.This was supposed to be a 
season for tanking, for getting a top-three lottery pick and landing UCLA’s Lonzo Ball or Washington’s Markelle Fultz or someone of that 
caliber.
Instead, the Heat are a few 
games out of the East’s ﬁ  nal playoff 
spot with a crappy team full of NBA nomads, half of which will be gone in two years.
And to all you Heat Fans who 
disagree with me: Congrats. I’m happy that you’re excited the Heat 
may make the playoffs. Enjoy losing 
four straight games to Cleveland in the ﬁ  rst round and then selecting 16th overall in the NBA Draft. 
That’s deﬁ  nitely how you 
rebuild a team.
But, hey, we can probably agree 
on one thing: At least we’re not Knicks fans, amirite?
Appreciate: The Gators 
Basketball PR department (or whoever is in charge of the O’Dome’s jumbotron)
Canyon Barry is a really good 
college basketball player. 
He averages 12.7 points per 
game (second-most on the team), shoots 43 percent from the ﬁ  eld 
and set Florida’s record for most 
consecutive made free-throws on Saturday with 39.
He also looks like Cindy Lou 
Who, a resident of Whoville, from “Dr. Seuss’ How the Grinch Stole Christmas!”
The resemblance is uncanny. 
In fact, a side-by-side comparison 
of Barry and Cindy Lou Who was 
displayed on the O’Connell Center’s jumbotron minutes before Florida defeated Texas A&M on Saturday.
Kudos, Gators PR department. 
The people needed to know.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. 
His column appears on Tuesdays. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @icohenb. 
 Who to love, hate and appreciate in the sports world on Valentine’s Day
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Canyon Barry is displayed on the O’Connell Center’s scoreboard  on Saturday next to Dr. Seuss’ Cindy Lou Who to show a resemblance. 
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb