We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 84 THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
Eastern Michigan transfer shining 
for Gators
Rachel Slocum has only competed in two meets and is already energizing Florida, pg. 1 4
Golf charity expands to Gainesville
UF grad student teaching golf to underprivileged, pg. 5
Gainesville man steals 1,000 rare trading cards
The “Magic: The Gathering” cards were worth about $900, pg. 4FOLLOW US FOR UPDATESUF HELD SIMILAR WATCH 
EVENTS FOR THE 2008 
INAUGURATION.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff writer
As President-elect Donald Trump 
is inaugurated Friday, UF students 
can watch the ceremony at ﬁ  ve dif-ferent locations on campus.
David Parrott, the vice president 
for Student Affairs at UF, emailed stu-dents Tuesday afternoon announcing the Ofﬁ  ce of Student Affairs will pro-vide viewing locations for students at the Reitz Union Chamber, Gra-ham Hall Gallery, Broward Hall Rec. Room, Tanglewood Village Commons and Corry Village Commons. Show-ings will vary but will be between 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m, UF spokesperson Ja-nine Sikes said.  
Opening remarks begin at 11:30 
a.m., and Trump’s ofﬁ  cial swearing 
is at noon, USA Today reports.
Sikes said UF hosted similar events 
during President Barack Obama’s 
2008 inauguration. Department staff 
will be at the locations to talk with students who wish to discuss the cer-emony.
“We’re providing a venue where if 
you want to watch the inauguration day event and want to talk with oth-ers or be with others, then there are venues to do that on campus,” Sikes 
said. 
After the inauguration, admin-
istrators with UF Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs will hold a panel of faculty, department staff and stu-dents to discuss the ﬁ  rst 100 days of the Trump administration. On inauguration day 
at UF, watch parties and walk out planned
PORTIONS OF THE STUDENT UNION 
HAVE  CLOSED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Portions of the Reitz Union are contaminated 
with asbestos — and they have been for more than a 
month, although UF’s spokespeople were unaware.
Signs in front of the taped-off Arts and Crafts 
Center and the employee hallway warn passersby 
of the hazard, citing a risk of “cancer and lung dis-
ease.”
During construction on the Lower Level of the 
Union that began Dec. 7, workers posted signs to warn about the hazardous material, which can cause inﬂ  ammation of the lungs if ingested and heighten the risk of developing lung cancer. Reno-vations are expected to last until later this Spring.
Kate Konieczny, a student employee in the print-
ing lab, said she noticed the signs for the ﬁ  rst time when she arrived at work Tuesday.
“I thought that it was a little bit concerning,” the 
19-year-old UF psychology sophomore said.
Asbestos is a ﬁ  re retardant material that can typi-
cally be found in older homes and buildings. About 120 buildings on campus contain asbestos, accord-ing to Alligator archives. All visible asbestos was removed from buildings more than 25 years old, costing the school about $25 million.
When pressed for comment Wednesday, Steve Orlando and Janine Sikes, UF’s primary spokespeo-ple, said they were unaware of any asbestos inside 
the Reitz.  Sikes said it’s not surprising the asbestos 
was found because UF’s campus is one of the oldest in the Southeast.
“Asbestos was commonly used in older build-
ings, unfortunately,” Sikes said.
                         
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org Asbestos ‘hazard’ found in ReitzCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
SPRING STUDENT ORG FAIR
Hundreds of students walked through the Reitz Union lawn to check out some of UF’s organizations 
and get free pizza at the Spring 2017 Student Organization Fair on Wednesday. The fair was hosted by the Department of Student Activities and Involvement and the Involvement T eam.  Organizations and clubs, from the Hip-Hop Collective to the UF Data Science and Informatics Student Organization, tabled on the lawn to give information to prospective club members. 
IT IS OFFERING FREE 
COFFEE UNTIL FRIDAY.
By Maddie Harlow
Alligator Contributing Writer
Disillusioned with its dinner 
crowd, Midtown’s The Coop now 
serves breakfast — and it’s offer-ing free coffee until Friday.
The restaurant, located at 1620 
W. University Ave., now offers breakfast from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and lunch from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
The new breakfast menu, im-
plemented Wednesday, includes quesadillas, sandwiches and cof-fee, said Darren Kay, the restau-rant’s owner.
“The dinner crowd is just not 
where I want it to be,” Kay said.
He said he noticed more peo-
ple eating dinner near Southwest Archer Road and West Newberry Road instead of Midtown. Kay said switching to breakfast and lunch was the right decision for the company. Until Friday, the restaurant is 
offering free hot coffee, cold brew and nitro cold brew, along with half-off espresso drinks. The res-taurant uses locally-roasted coffee from Sweetwater Organic Coffee Co. to brew coffee and espresso drinks, he said.
Kay said his menu includes 
mostly on-the-go items. The build-your-own breakfast sandwiches can be made on a biscuit, bagel, Texas toast, croissant or wafﬂ  e.
Ashley Martinez, 22, stopped 
by for free coffee Wednesday after hearing about the promotion on Facebook.
The UF applied physiology and 
kinesiology junior grabbed a nitro cold brew coffee before starting a full day of classes. 
People like Martinez are who 
Kay said he’s hoping to dine at his restaurant. 
“Hopefully I can grab all of 
those city workers and staff work-
ers as well as college students on 
their way to class, on their way to work,” he said.Midtown’s The  Coop 
now serves breakfas t
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator 
Signs in the Reitz Union warn of asbestos. 
Parts of the Lower Level of the Reitz Union are closed for renovations.
SEE INAUGURATION,  PAGE 4
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Visiting Artist Lecture with 
Morgan Puett
The UF School of Art + Art History is hosting visiting artist Morgan Puett as part of the Spring 
2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series 
today at 6 p.m. in the School of Music, Room 101. The lecture will offer the community an op-portunity for dialogue about con-temporary art and culture in rela-tion to national and international trends. The event is free and open to the public. For more informa-
tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
is offering free lessons and danc-es twice a week every Monday and Friday. On Friday nights, the organization hosts two levels of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
and a social dance from 9 p.m. to 
midnight at the Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organization hosts two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to  9 p.m. and social dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more information, find the organiza-
tion on Facebook.
Now Presenting: GatorNights
Now Presenting: GatorNights 
is offering a musical-themed event Friday. The event features Musical Karaoke at 10 p.m., drawings from a professional caricature artist, a Mr. and Mrs. 
Club Creole Pageant and a Mr. 
and Mrs. Jamsa Pageant at the Reitz Union. A showing of Les Miserables will occur at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Saturday 
Collectors from across the region will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors during the 38th Collectors Day on Saturday from 
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event 
is the museum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to interact with collectors and learn about the context and his-torical significance of their collec-tions. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/collectors-day-
registration-deadline/ or call 352-
273-2061.352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunityThe UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with 
the management team. Contact 
Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative 
consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education in GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more information, or to request mate-rial, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28 Beginning Jan. 28, visitors of the Florida Museum of Natural History will be able to see the museum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” The museum will host a public open-
ing celebration that includes a 
Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Tuesday or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for 
the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. 
Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida resi-dents and seniors, $5 for children aged three to 17 and free to mu-seum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. 
‘Into the Open: What Animals 
Can Teach Us about Death’On Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. at the Millhopper Branch Library, Jessica Pierce will speak about how judgments about animal life affect end-of-life care for our animal companions. This event is the fifth in an eight-part speaker series called “Death: Confronting 
the Great Divide” organized by 
UF’s Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere. For more information, visit humanities.ufl.edu.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career ExpoThe annual College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences Career Expo 
will be from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Feb. 8 in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers repre-senting the food, fiber, natu-ral resources and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Opportunities for internships and permanent employment will be available. The event is open to UF students and alumni. CALS will host walk-in resume reviews in preparation for the event from 9 
a.m. to noon Monday in McCarty 
Hall D, Room 2025. For more in-formation, visit cals.ufl.edu. 
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to University Galleries in Gainesville Cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and 
culture festival, from January to 
March. Cuban muralists, danc-ers, musicians, authors and aca-demics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the 
University Gallery and the Gary 
R. Libby Gallery. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge 
On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the 
Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-mation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free 
food and free tank tops (limited 
quantities available) will be fea-tured. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-design-challenge no later than Jan. 30.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 34th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 84
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  78° LOW  59°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTHURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Kim Chi Huynh, a 21-year-old UF mathematics senior and president of UF’s Cuong Nhu Club, 
demonstrates Cuong Nhu at the Spring 2017 Student Organization Fair. “Cuong Nhu is great for people who don’t know about martial arts, ” Huynh said. “It’s seven types of martial arts. It’s a mix of everything. ”Gordon Wilson, a 25-year-old UF statistics and mathematics senior, talks with Alisa Watson, a 22-year-old UF business administration junior, about the UF Data Science and Informatics Student Organization during the Spring 2017 Student Organization Fair. 
GETTING INVOLVED
Photos by Charles Hatcher
Alligator StaffIT MAY TAKE MORE THAN 
TWO YEARS TO FINISH.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The finishing touches on a 
meditation garden in Gainesville, 
fit with about 85 tons of statues, 
will require more time and money to complete.
A Nan Buddhist Temple, lo-
cated at 2120 SE 15th St., recently paid about $500,000 to erect three buddhist statues imported from Vietnam earlier this month, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
The three statues, which were 
delivered Jan. 11 and 13, include a sitting Buddha, a reclining Bud-dha and a 45-foot-tall representa-tion of Quan Yin, the Buddhist goddess of compassion, according to archives.
The temple’s head monk, 
Thich Duc Thong, wants to add 
light fixtures, landscaping, a front 
gate and additional, smaller stat-
ues to the garden, a project that needs approximately $200,000 to complete, said Trang Le, a long-time member of the temple.
“It will take quite a while and 
then after that, he will add an-other statue (depicting) when the Buddha was born,” he said.
The garden won’t be finished 
for about two years, said Le, who visits the temple about three times a week.
The trio of white granite stat-
ues were paid for almost entirely 
by private donations from mem-
bers of the temple, Le said.
Despite the project being an 
ongoing process, the tentative 
date for the garden’s grand open-
ing is May 7, Buddha’s birth day, 
said Bob Todd, who personally invested in the statues.
Although the meditation gar-
den isn’t close to being complete, 
it will still host festivities for the 
Vietnamese New Year on Jan. 29, Todd said. The event is open to everyone and will serve vegetar-
ian food in exchange for dona-
tions.
Todd said he has a difficult 
time describing how he felt when 
he saw the completed statues.
“They’re so beautiful,” Todd 
said, “and I think the statues will be there long after we’re all gone.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
Temple delays completion of garden
Molly Vossler / Alligator
The smaller sitting Buddha statue weighs 66,138.7 pounds.
WHEN PARENTS ARE 
RUDE TO DOCTORS, 
IT AFFECTS THEIR 
COGNITIVE SYSTEM .
By Courtney Moberley
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF researcher has found 
that when you treat your child’s 
doctor rudely, quality of care plummets.
Amir Erez, a UF manage-
ment professor, helped conduct 
the study in Tel Aviv, Israel. He 
found that being rude to doc-tors affected their performance throughout the day, even after 
they moved on to a different 
case. 
While chronic lack of sleep 
accounts for 10 to 20 percent of practitioners’ decreased perfor-
mance, rudeness was found to 
account for more than 40 per-cent, Erez said. 
When he first heard about 
the correlation between rude-ness and doctors’ performance from University of Southern 
California assistant professor 
Christine Porath, Erez said he couldn’t believe her research. 
He said he thought people 
could easily get over insults, es-
pecially if they had to. 
“I found very quickly that she 
was right, and I was wrong,” he 
said. “Rudeness has a tremen-
dous effect.”
Rudeness affects people’s 
cognitive system, where plan-
ning and goal management is controlled, Erez said. 
He said he also wanted to see 
how rudeness affects doctors. He had 39 teams, comprised 
of two doctors and two nurses 
each, diagnose and treat manne-quins at a simulation center in Tel Aviv while an expert doctor 
or nurse looked on. 
Actors posed as the man-
nequins’ “mothers” and were 
purposefully rude to some team members.
“It didn’t only affect the case where the ‘mother’ was insult-ing with them, it actually stayed with them the entire day,” Erez 
said. 
If an expert or authority fig-
ure insulted the medical team, 
they were unable to resuscitate the mannequins properly or lo-
cate and diagnose diseases, he 
said. 
Anja Glassmer, a bedside 
nurse at Miami Children’s 
Health System, said after 26 
years in her profession, she can deal with rude patients and par-ents.
Parents are often over-
whelmed when faced with what their children are diagnosed with, Glassmer said. She said she handles ruder clients by calmly explaining the treatment 
plan to them. 
“I know from other nurses in 
my unit, especially young ones 
that don’t know how to deal with stressors, it affects them,” she said. “For me, myself, I can brush it off.” 
During the study, Erez at-
tempted two interventions be-fore the rude incident and after it.
Before the medical team was 
confronted with rudeness, some completed a computer game based on cognitive behavioral therapy to help them notice 
signs of aggression before they 
occurred, he said. Other test subjects wrote about their ex-perience afterward from the ag-gressor’s perspective.
The medical team handled 
the rude behavior and treated their patients better when they went through the cognitive be-havioral therapy, Erez said. 
“The thing to do about it is to 
be aware of it,” he said.UF research links 
rudeness with declining quality of care 
Gabe Lara, the Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs’ interim as-
sociate director, said he hopes ev-eryone can have an open conver-sation.
“We just want to make sure we 
have a lot of discussion and dia-logue with our students who feel that he may not be the best choice, or some students who feel that he 
is the best choice,” Lara said.  
A Facebook event titled “UF 
Student Walk Out” was created by 
Joseph Peralta, who is encourag-ing students to walk out of class and to Gainesville’s City Hall for an inauguration protest. The event is scheduled for 11:15 a.m. 
“It’s a means of making a state-
ment,” the 20-year-old UF plant science junior said.Gabrielle Brown, a UF pre-phar-
macy freshman, plans to watch the inauguration although she couldn’t vote in the election. Brown, 18, said she would have, but she only became a U.S. citizen last week.
“It’s history; I know it sucks, 
but it’s important,” she said.
                           @rellenbogen       
              rellenbogen@alligator.org
INAUGURATION,  from pg. 1Some students will walk out of class and head to city hallTHE CARDS WERE WORTH ABOUT $900.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man sold 1,000 rare “Magic: The 
Gathering” trading cards Tuesday after stealing 
them from an unlocked car parked in Stone Ridge Apartments, Gainesville Police said.
Jeffrey Scott Wallace, 31, sold the cards, which 
are worth about $900, for about $295 to a gam-ing store, according to a police report. Police said the rare cards were reported missing from the car, parked at 3800 SW 34th St., Saturday.
The game store manager recognized the cards as 
similar to cards his friend owned, according to the report. The friend and rightful owner was able to identify the cards as his own based on card condi-tion and markings. 
Wallace said he forgot his ID and brought a friend with him to the shop who helped him sell the cards 
to the store in three transactions, according to the 
report.
After he was arrested, Wallace 
told police he went into the un-
locked car and took the cards, ac-
cording to the report. He also said 
he sold the cards for money to pay 
his bills.
He told police he was doing his 
best to better his life, but he is still 
struggling.
Wallace was arrested on charges of unarmed 
burglary, grand theft, dealing in stolen property and 
false information on a pawn transaction form. Au-thorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $40,000 bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: Man steals rare gaming cards
Wallace
ADDRESSES OF INAUGURATION
VIEWING LOCATIONS
• Reitz Union: 686 Museum Road
• Graham Hall Gallery 21: Graham Area
• Broward Hall Rec Room 680: Broward Drive
• T anglewood: 2901 SW 13th St.
• Corry Village Commons: Corry Village, near the intersection of Village Drive and Museum Road“Rudeness has a tremendour 
effect.”
Amir Erez
UF management professorTHURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Romy Ellenbogen / Alligator 
From left: UF professor Mike Foley speaks with Michael LaForgia about 
LaForgia’s investigative series “Failure Factories” for the T ampa Bay Times. LaForgia won the Pulitzer Prize for local reporting in 2016 for the investigation into Pinellas County schools.
HE HELPED WRITE A SERIES ABOUT 
FAILING ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff writer 
When UF student Brittany Munyer read the 
Tampa Bay Times series “Failure Factories,” she realized she wanted to be a teacher.
She was one of about 75 UF students and 
Gainesville residents gathered in Pugh Hall 
on Wednesday night to hear from one of 
its authors, 2016 Pulitzer-Prize winner  and UF adjunct professor Michael LaForgia. The series of articles, published in August 2015, showed how the resegregation of elementary 
schools in Pinellas County led to massive 
problems among black schoolchildren.
After attending Campbell Park Elementary 
School, a school mentioned in the series, 
Munyer, 21, felt a personal connection to the 
problems LaForgia, helped unearth.
“He’s a regular person, but in my eyes it 
means so much that him and his team really just transformed who I am as a person,” the 
UF anthropology senior said.
UF journalism professor Mike Foley, who 
interviewed LaForgia, asked him how he conducted the investigation.
LaForgia said investigating took 18 months, 
during which time he and his colleagues spoke to more than 100 families of schoolchildren and dozens of administrators. The story was really about students being treated unfairly, something LaForgia said he ﬁ  xated on.
“I just don’t like stuff that’s not fair,” 
LaForgia said.
After the story was published, LaForgia 
said more people became aware of the schools’ issues, but the Pinellas County School Board has yet to reverse the zoning practices that created the inequality.
“These schools are generating a massive 
amount of academic failure, and we need to hold them accountable for that,” LaForgia said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  Tampa Bay Times reporter talks about Pulitzer Prize series
By Josie Kuhlman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Through a newly expanded 
program, a UF student is teaching  
underprivileged children how to play one of the most expensive sports on the planet. This spring, 
UF accounting graduate student 
Sean Warner helped launch a local chapter of The First Tee, a nonproﬁ  t organization that teaches kids how to play golf and build character, Warner said. The organization works with children whose families aren’t able to afford to learn how to play the sport.
“We don’t turn anyone away if 
they can’t pay,” the 23-year-old said.When Warner began helping the 
Ocala chapter of the organization in February 2014, he said he realized 
the program didn’t extend to the 
Gainesville community. So he decided to change that. 
Since expanding the program to 
Gainesville, the chapter has grown to include 43 kids and two golf course 
locations at Ironwood Golf Course, 
2100 NE 39th Ave., and West End, 12830 W. Newberry Road. 
As a full-time student running a 
charity program, he said he’s learned to be efﬁ  cient with his time and has a purpose for each hour in his day. He is currently looking for interns to help him with his growing golf program.Despite balancing classes and 
working at The First Tee, he said it’s worth seeing the kids’ faces light up 
when they hit a ball.
Two members of the UF women’s 
golf team agree with Warner that 
the game of golf can really make an impression on a young person’s life for the better.
Sydney Needham, 22, said golf 
teaches lifelong values, like self-awareness and a sense of morality, which she feels are important for kids to learn.
“I think the program has really 
good potential,” the UF marketing senior said. “I think that it has a great chance to make an impact on lives.”Needham’s  
teammate Kelly Grassel, 21, said 
she believes the 
organization  introduces kids to the game early, 
gives them an opportunity to 
get lessons and 
gives them a sense of community. 
“They have somewhere to go 
and learn golf, which could lead 
to playing golf in high school or possibly even getting a college scholarship,” the UF family, youth and community sciences senior said.
The First Tee is continuing to 
expand throughout the Gainesville community, giving kids the chance 
to learn a sport they typically 
wouldn’t be able to.
“It’s great to see how we can 
transform a student and their behavior, help them make friends, enjoy the game of golf more and just really enjoy life more,” Warner said.  
 UF graduate student expands golf charity to Gainesville
Warner
 The First Tee 
locations in Florida
OrlandoT ampaMiamiJacksonvilleSt. Petersburg 
Fort MyersNaples
Palm BeachFort Lauderdale PensacolaSt. Augustine
Port St. LucieThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
On being an intellectual: Think critically, Gators
A few weeks ago, I met with a UF profes-
sor who was uncomfortable with my occasional use of the word “prayer” 
in editorials and messages to campus. 
We met over a cup of coffee and had 
a robust and stimulating discussion on why I sometimes say “my prayer” instead of “my 
hope” and “in my prayers” instead of “in my 
thoughts” when I wish to convey a strong per-sonal sentiment. 
After nearly three years of graduate theo-
logical studies, I know there is language with which I 
may be comfortable but could distract others from the 
intent and meaning of my message.
We also had a good discussion about evidence-based 
knowledge, belief systems and UF’s role in educating 
students to be intellectuals. Dr. Ibram Kendi, a profes-
sor of African-American history, gave a powerful com-mencement address on this same topic to graduating doctoral students in December 2016. Kendi won the National Book Award this past fall for his second book, 
“Stamped from the Beginning: The Deﬁ  nitive History of 
Racist Ideas in America.” His commencement address was about what it means to be an intellectual. Kendi said, “I deﬁ  ne — and many others 
deﬁ  ne — an intellectual as someone with a tremendous desire to know. Intellectuals are 
open-minded. Intellectuals have a tremen-
dous capacity to change their mind on mat-ters, to self-reﬂ  ect, to self-critique. Intellectu-als are governed by only one special interest 
that is rarely self-serving — the special inter-
est of ﬁ  nding and revealing the truth.”
He closed his commencement message 
with the words, “I don’t want you to leave 
UF with just a doctorate degree. I want you to leave 
UF as an intellectual.” I agree with Kendi. My desire is 
that every member of the UF community will learn to be an intellectual — not deﬁ  ned by just how much we know, but rather by our persistent lifelong willingness 
to be critical of what we know and believe. If you are 
like me, it is easy to be critical of what others know, but I’m not so comfortable critiquing my own knowledge and beliefs.
The words of Kendi challenge me: “But before we 
can change or critique something else, we must have the capacity to change and critique ourselves. We must have the capacity to be intellectuals, to be on the per-petual climb towards the always-rising peak of truth.” 
The world will indeed be better if it is ﬁ  lled with intel-
lectual Gators.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. His column appears 
monthly.
A guide to preventing 
a (hypothetical) 
dystopia 
Welcome to another discussion about the potential dys-
topian fate of the U.S. Last week, we discussed how the nation combines elements of a Huxleyan and Or-wellian dystopia — a mix of gratiﬁ  cation and censor-ship. This is all completely hypothetical, of course, 
but we ﬁ  gured with so many cries of an impending doomsday coming up in 2017, we should prepare for the worst. And thus, after two editorials of prelude, we bring you our very own guide to analyzing and preventing a supposed dystopia.
Our ﬁ  rst topic is education. As of now, the public education 
system of the U.S. hangs in a state of ﬂ  ux as Congress begins the selection for a new secretary of education.
Though both of our staple dystopian worlds we’ve referred to 
in the past — Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New World” and George 
Orwell’s “1984”— have different means of control, the govern-
ments recognize that the youth are easily impressionable, and they start training them to follow government doctrine. This is the traditional take on how a dystopia approaches education.
We know the public education system of the U.S. is not with-
out its ﬂ  aws. There’s debate in the education world as to how to quantify students’ progress — whether higher education is a privilege or a right. The U.S. continually lags behind in the ﬁ  elds of math and science education. There’s no doubt we need some 
reform to catch up with the continually top-ranked East Asian 
and Western European countries. 
The current nominee for secretary of education, Betsy De-
Vos, wants to reform education. But let’s be clear about one thing: DeVos has never attended a public school. Her children have never attended public schools. She has taken a free-market approach to education, stating that if public schools don’t cut it, families should simply send their kids to private or charter schools. During her congressional hearing, she couldn’t provide 
a clear-cut answer to a single question about whether schools 
receiving federal aid should comply to federal standards. 
There’s always a fear that the government will get too in-
volved in education, as indicated by our staple dystopian worlds. Perhaps DeVos has read one of these books and is con-vinced that government meddling of public education will turn the next generation into a brainwashed army. 
But the problem is that DeVos, with her wealthy family, is so 
far removed from the realities of public education. She insists 
that it is the parents’ choice in schooling their children and that 
parents should have the ability to choose their child’s educa-tion. That’s all ﬁ  ne and dandy if you come from one of the lucky families that can send your kids to private schools from preschool to higher education.
Most of us — who are here at a public state school with 
loans, scholarships and grants — did not have that luxury. 
We at the Alligator believe everyone has a right to receive an 
education comparable to those who can pay tens of thousands 
of dollars. In a hypothetical dystopia in which education is a 
privilege for the elite and those who can’t afford it won’t move past basic elementary school, keeping the masses unaware of higher thinking, unaware of history and economics, of science and innovation, will render them voiceless. Do not remain voiceless.
We have the power of a good public education; we might as 
well use it.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“My desire is that every 
member of the UF community 
will learn to be an 
intellectual.”Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Swamp Head Brewery celebrates birthday
It will celebrate nine years with ’90s party, pg. 9THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Broadway comedy ‘Hand to God’ comes to GNV
It will run at the Hippodrome until Feb. 5,  pg. 8By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
Destination Okeechobee, a 
highly anticipated battle between 
six bands, will debut Friday at the High Dive, where a group’s chance to play at the Okeechobee Music & 
Arts Festival is in the hands of the 
audience members. 
“We’re really excited to host this 
event, as it’s the ﬁ  rst time that it’s happened in Gainesville,” said Pat Lavery, the owner of Glory Days Presents and the High Dive promot-er. “It’s being hosted by the 2016 Destination Okeechobee winners 
Flat Land and Locochino.” 
Each band participating in the 
battle earned its battle round spot 
by beating more than 3,200 artists across the country. Winners of the battle will be chosen directly by the audience. 
Attendees will have the chance 
to enjoy a large variety of music, as 
the line-up includes a diverse group 
of musicians, from innovatively creative Bass Music to nostalgic ﬁ  st-pumping New Wave.
MarSHen, a DJ duo fronted by 
Ronnie Laws and Ted Hogan, will be another act performing at the battle of the bands. A collaborative act composed of energetic sets and 
revolutionary electro-bass house 
style, the two have been impact-ing the electronic music scene since April 2016.
“The biggest takeaway we have 
from this journey is that whether we are playing to a room of 10 peo-ple or 10,000, this is what we love to do,” MarSHen wrote in an email. 
“The feeling of seeing a dance ﬂ  oor 
move and jive to your song selec-tion while thinking about what to play next to keep the vibes going is indescribable.” 
Initially, MarSHen entered Des-
tination Okeechobee as a way to gain more exposure but was blown away by the constant positive feed-back from their fans. 
“Our success in the ﬁ  rst round 
of this competition is owed entirely to our support base,” the band said. “We wouldn’t be here without our fans in Orlando, Gainesville and be-yond.”
•   •   •
Gainesville DJ Tyler Stofel didn’t 
have to travel far to perform at Des-tination Okeechobee, but his jour-ney to reach this point wasn’t so straightforward.
“I quit my job to pursue music, 
which was a decision that took me about 6 months to make,” Stofel said. “The biggest thing I’ve learned since then is to never be afraid to go after something you’re passion-ate about.”
As Side Trakd, Stofel quickly 
made a name for himself within 
Gainesville’s club scene and wit-
nessed ﬁ  rsthand the city’s growing love for electronic music.
“I think a DJ winning this (Des-
tination Okeechobee) round would help shed some light on the suc-cessful electronic music scene that we have in Gainesville,” Stofel said.
Lzrkmmndr, a prominent 
Gainesville DJ and producer known as Mr. Bambu in the beat commu-nity, shares Stofel’s goal in making the public aware of Gainesville’s drive for electronic music. 
“If I won this competition, it 
would perhaps show that there is some vibrant and cool music hap-pening here in Gainesville that is 
not punk and indie rock,” Bambu 
said. “For me, it would certainly be validating and a huge leg up in my musical journey.”
Heavily inspired by rap music 
and bass frequencies, Lzrkmmndr, pronounced “Lazer Kommander,” has a sound described by Bambu as bass heavy future heartbreak beats.“I just try to delve into the mi-
asma of human emotion and create sound that compliments that,” he said. 
•   •   •
While most of the musicians are 
from Florida, two of the bands trav-eled from out of state to compete. 
“We don’t have the hometown 
advantage we’d get here in Indi-
ana, but we can still win and make 
it to the festival if we put in the work and do our best,” said Danny Steinmetz, the Julia Kahn Band’s bass player.  
The band is made up of Stein-
metz (bass/guitar), Julia Kahn (vo-cals), Vinny Corsaro (guitar/keys) and Zane Turi (drums). 
“We all met in high school and 
started playing together senior year,” Steinmetz said. “When we graduated we all went separate ways initially, but eventually all wound up back up again and took it more seriously, getting more shows and recording our songs.”Similarly, The Sunsets won’t let 
distance stand in their way to take the stage at Okeechobee. 
The Alabama-based band is 
composed of Torsten Dryden (lead vocals/keys), Brian Jones (rhythm guitar), Daniel O’Donnell (saxo-
phone/backing vocals), Breihan 
Dryden (drums), Devin Gordy (lead guitar/backing vocals) and Allen Poore (bass).
“When we signed on to come 
to Gainesville, the talent-buyer warned us that we would have a home ﬁ  eld disadvantage as all the other bands are from Florida,” said 
Torsten Dryden, The Sunsets’ lead 
vocalist. “We didn’t mind that at all as our music speaks for itself. Music is universal, and we want to share ours with the world, and in this case, speciﬁ  cally Florida. 
Dryden described the band’s 
sound as a mixture of dance rock and new wave, heavily inspired 
by John Hughes ﬁ  lms and themes 
of beauty, freedom and love. The-band’s music reﬂ  ects the rose-tinted nostalgia of the ’80s, while including a raw and realistic por-trayal of life.
“There are certain themes that 
we cover sometimes in our music 
that deal with social anxiety, as it 
relates to relationships, as well as addiction and relapse,” Dryden said. 
While acknowledging that win-
ning the competition would mean the world for the band, Dryden said that meeting new people, the other musicians and having the chance 
to perform was more important.
“We deﬂ  ect egotistical nonsense 
with the fun of playing to make our 
friends, fans, strangers and our-selves happy,” Dryden said. “We would absolutely adore the chance to play Okeechobee, but it’s up to our wonderful High Dive attendees at the event to vote us to victory.”
Doors open at 7 p.m. for the 
7:30 p.m. show. Tickets can be bought in advance for $6 at ticket-ﬂ  y.com or for $8 at the door.Bands battle for spot in Okeechobee music festival
Courtesy to the  Alligator
The High Dive will host Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst Destination Okeechobee on Friday with a battle of the bands. 
Six bands will perform for the opportunity to win a spot at the Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival, with the winner chosen directly by the audience. Doors open at 7 p.m. for the 7:30 p.m. show.
val
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer 
Take a sip when…
• The Baudelaire orphans know 
the meaning of any word
• Mr. Poe has a coughing ﬁ  t
• The mysterious “eye symbol” ﬁ  nds its way on screen
• Sunny speaks unintelligibly
Take a shot when…
• Count Olaf shows up in 
another disguise
• Violet ties her hair up
• Klaus references an obscure 
book he’s read
• Mr. Poe is duped by Count 
Olaf yet again• You hear about Mulctuary 
Money Management
      Finish your drink when…
• Lemony Snicket mentions 
Beatrice
• Count Olaf refers to himself 
as handsome
• A new guardian appears
• You’re sure the Baudelaire 
orphans won’t surviveSome die-hard fans of 
the “A Series of Unfortunate 
Events” novels by Daniel Han-
dler seemed to believe the ﬁ  lm 
adaptation in 2004 turned the evil acts of Count Olaf into a sequence of goofy and hilari-
ous events. The Netﬂ  ix remake 
starring Neil Patrick Harris as Count Olaf, however, brings back the darkness and calam-ity Lemony Snicket originally intended. If you desire to 
watch the unfortunate lives 
of the ill-fated Baudelaires unfold, and not look away as the theme song suggests, then 
grab a drink and prepare to 
play along.  
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
In a church basement, a group 
of teenagers gather to make puppets 
that will spread the Christian mes-sage — but one of the puppets turns out to be more demonic than divine.
The original Broadway comedy 
“Hand to God” by playwright Robert Askins will be performed on select nights from now until Feb. 5 at the Hippodrome State Theatre. The play tells the story of Tyrone, a satanic puppet who makes a small Texas town rethink their beliefs. 
Tyrone talks about everything 
from love to faith, and he shows that both sinfulness and saintliness are what make us human. 
“The show was laugh-out-loud 
funny, and our local talent is amaz-ing,” said Renee Meyer, a Gainesville local who attended a viewing of the play.
Askins was a bartender in Brook-
lyn, New York, when his play ﬁ  rst premiered on Broadway. He couldn’t afford to go see his own play, but nevertheless, he was ecstatic at the success. The show, which started on Broadway in 2015 and was nominat-ed for ﬁ  ve Tony awards that same year, is now being performed by the-
aters all across the country.
Growing up in rural Texas, Askins 
attended church with his grand-
mother frequently and described the patrons as “deeply conservative, old farm folks, stone-faced, pride and suffering, and the only time anybody ever really livened up was when the children’s choir would perform.” 
This is how Askins became in-
terested in the performing arts: the children’s choir. It wasn’t until high school that his interest in theater emerged, but he didn’t want to write anything that would bore him like church did.
“It’s kind of frustrating in life to 
be like, ‘I’m a playwright,’ and watch 
people’s face fall, because they as-
sociate plays with phenomenally dull, didactic, poetic grad-schoolery, where everything takes too long and tediously explores the beauty in our-selves,” he said. “It’s not church, even though it feels like church a lot when we go these days.”
“Hand to God,” although cen-
tered around a rural, religious Texas 
town, is anything but boring. At one point, stuffed animals 
are mutilated in ways that resemble 
those of Catholic martyrs. The result is a dark comedy that is both hilari-ous and provocative. Since its incep-tion in 2011, the play has tackled 
ideas behind our social structure. “This is not academic, this is vis-
ceral, and that’s exciting,” Askins 
said. “It’s sacred.” 
Tickets range from $10 for stu-
dents on discount nights to $30 for regular seats, and can be purchased at the box ofﬁ  ce or at thehipp.org.
Broadway comedy ‘Hand to God’ comes to Hippodrome 
THEATRE
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Hand to God” tells the story of a satanic puppet who challenges the ideas of a small T exas 
town. The show runs on select nights until Feb. 5, and ticket prices range from $10 to $30.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer 
Swamp Head Brewery is turning 
nine, and it’s bringing out Hammer 
pants and jelly sandals to celebrate. 
The brewery, located at 3650 
SW 42nd Ave., is hosting a ’90s themed birthday party Saturday to celebrate.
“Saved by the Beer” will begin 
at 1 p.m., with timed beer tappings 
starting at 2 p.m. DJ Malibu will 
start spinning ’90s music at 5 p.m., with the event wrapping up at 11 p.m.
The event will go on rain 
or shine, said Brandon Nappy, Swamp Head’s tactical marketing director. He said they have a pre-cautionary rainy day plan in place. 
The theme inspired names for 
the exclusive, small-batch beers that will be offered at the event, such as “Vanilla IcePA.” 
Swamp Head will continue to announce various themed activi-ties on its Facebook event page leading up to Saturday’s event. 
Food trucks Mayﬂ  ower Cellars 
and Humble Wood Fire will be 
serving the event.The theme is intended to reﬂ  ect 
on the “funny and ridiculous” de-
cade of the ’90s, Nappy said. 
“A lot of our market grew up in 
the ’90s, and a lot of people at the 
brewery grew up in the ’90s,” he 
said. “There’s so many fun memo-ries from there that are just silly.”
Michael Cohen, a self-pro-
claimed beer enthusiast and UF 
computer science engineering se-
nior, said the ’90s theme caught 
his attention. “One of my favorite things 
about going to local breweries is 
the feeling of community when 
there,” the 22-year-old said. “You 
really get a sense of that with this 
event.” 
In its ﬁ  rst year of selling beer, 
Nappy said Swamp Head sold 700 
barrels of beer. Last year, he es-
timated they brewed more than 
8,000 barrels. 
Nappy said the anniversary cel-
ebration gives the crew time to ap-preciate nine years of doing what 
they love. 
“It’s just really a time for us to 
reﬂ  ect on where we started and 
where we are now and where we 
are continuing to head,” he said.  
In its 10th year, Swamp Head 
plans to dig deeper into its sustain-
ability goals and expand can distri-bution to new markets. 
“We’re looking forward to see-
ing what we can accomplish,” Nappy said.Swamp Head Brewery to celebrate ninth anniversary 
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
Inspired by the decade that brought viewers “Saved by the Bell, ” Swamp Head Brewery will cel-ebrate its nine years in Gainesville with a ’90s-themed party on Saturday, which starts at 1 p.m.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Genres like techno, bass, funk, 
synthwave and soulful house seam-
lessly marry to form a steady, hour-long mix of sound in Over Easy Creative’s ﬁ  rst edition of “Hear.See.
Feel Radio.” The weekly radio show 
made its modest debut Jan. 10, re-vamping a concept that Over Easy Creative, a local group that puts on music and arts events, tried out roughly a year ago. 
Local producer Blac Bear, a 
23-year-old UF electric engineering senior whose real name is Kristian 
Legcevic, hosts the show. 
Every week the show will be split 
into two segments, each an hour 
long, Legcevic said. The ﬁ  rst is the most intricate, with Legcevic mixing together tracks picked out by every DJ on the Over Easy Creative roster. 
These songs must be recent, and 
they come from various genres. 
“The idea is that it will showcase 
all of the ﬂ  avors that Over Easy has,” Leg�evi� said. “I have to make the story: beginning, middle and end.”  
The ﬁ  rst segment of the most re-
cent show featured tracks from art-ists such as Lux Groove, Maceo Plex, 
John Talabot and more, representing 
the diverse and often underground tastes of each DJ. This segment took listeners on a journey of sound, with psychedelic, tribal and funk inﬂ  u-ences intertwined, all keeping a solid beat in between - which keeps the mix’s ﬂ  ow steady and easy to move to. The second hour of the show is 
a prerecorded guest mix, with guest artists from all over the country 
showcasing a full performance, as 
opposed to speciﬁ  c tracks. The ﬁ  rst edition of “Hear.See.Feel Radio” fea-tured Shane McCarron, a 21-year-old University of Central Florida soccer player with a sound that “revolves around a 4x4 beat.” 
Legcevic joined Over Easy Cre-
ative in 2014 after feeling frustrated 
with the club scene in Gainesville 
at the time, posting a long rant on the “Gainesville EDM Community” Facebook page. He said he felt the club owners didn’t care enough about the people attending their events. 
“As long as there wasn’t an ap-
preciation of the audience, the busi-ness was never going to work,” he said.
This was where Over Easy Cre-
ative came in. Legcevic attended a small event called Night Shift at Class Lounge (now known as SAGA), gradually becoming a part of a team, with the goal of show-casing creativity of all kinds in the Gainesville community.
Over Easy Creative is a concept 
created by Les Voss, a 24-year-old 
producer who studied event man-
agement at UF before taking some time off to focus on his company. 
The group has a quality over 
quantity, organic vision, Voss said, which is something that gave it a slow start but, as of recently, has taken off in terms of popularity. 
“Any sort of growth is a plateau, and we had to hit a plateau,” Voss said. “We’ve never been in a rush. We’d rather be slow and estab-
lished.” 
“Hear.See.Feel Radio” made its 
debut at a busy time for Over Easy 
Creative, highlighting the growth they’ve experienced over the past year. The company has planned var-ious events throughout the Spring semester, including the Chris Lo-renzo show at Gold Room Nightclub 
tonight.
Both “Hear.See.Feel Radio” and 
all of the events to come contribute 
to the artistic mission of Over Easy Creative and the diverse team of DJs  they have. 
“We’ve all got our own sound 
that we like,” said Voss. “It’s truly a family.” 
 Over Easy Creative launches weekly EDM radio show 
MUSIC
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer 
One of the biggest complaints about 
today’s hip-hop is the lack of originality or creativity. It’s often stated that all hip-hop artists sound the same. However, there are plenty of artists who are ex-
tremely creative, unique and consistent 
who go unnoticed or get overlooked.
A recent discovery of mine is Russ. 
I’ve seen his name around for a while, but I ﬁ  rst heard him when his biggest song, “What They Want,” started get-ting radio play. Russ has been putting music out for a several years, but he really blew up in 2016 when he signed 
with Columbia Records. He is an Italian 
rapper from New Jersey whose style of music can’t be easily deﬁ  ned. Finding an artist who produces his or her own music is rare, but someone who writes, sings, produces, mixes and masters their own music is unheard of, and that’s ex-actly what Russ does.
Russ’ last mixtape, “Silence,” was 
released back in 2014, but since then, Russ has only put out singles, which is unusual. While he technically “signed” to Columbia Records, his deal is more of a partnership, meaning Russ and Columbia split proﬁ  ts 50/50. You often hear artists speak out against major re-cord label companies because they feel 
trapped in their deal. Since his deal is a 
50/50 partnership, Russ is able to create the way he wants to. 
Some of my favorite songs from Russ 
are “What They Want,” “Losin Control,” “Fallin’ Too,” “Psycho, Pt. 2” and “Too Many.” These songs are different from each other. They each have a different vibe, but they’re all amazing. “What 
They Want” has been Russ’ most suc-
cessful song, having been played on ra-dio stations across the country. “Losin Control” is a down-to-earth song that’s a little too relatable, and Russ sings over a slower, intimate beat. “Fallin’ Too” starts with an ’80s funk melody layered underneath a catchy drum line. Russ shows off his vocals on “Psycho, Pt. 2,” 
hitting a range of notes over a rap-sing 
combination — the song is simply beau-tiful.
Russ is a gem who’s on the edge of 
mainstream success. If you aren’t a fan of Russ yet, then get yourself acquainted with one of the most consistent artists. If you’re on Spotify, I suggest you follow the “This Is: Russ” playlist, where you 
can ﬁ  nd all of his singles in one place.
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Tonight, the U.K.’s Chris Lorenzo is bringing his 
iconic house and bass sound to Gainesville.
The event, which is hosted by Over Easy Cre-
ative, will take place from 10 p.m. to  2 a.m., with 
doors opening at 9 p.m., at Gold Room Nightclub. 
Tickets range from $10 to $12 on Eventbrite or $15 
at the door. 
The show is part of Lorenzo’s “Destroy the Im-
age” tour, celebrating his self-released album that premiered in November 2016. 
Les Voss, a 24-year-old producer who owns 
Over Easy Creative, is excited to bring Lorenzo to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time. 
“Chris Lorenzo has been a personal favorite of 
mine for years,” said Voss. “He’s really pushed the house and bass sound into popularity worldwide from the U.K. and earned crazy respect from major artists through his productions.” 
Lorenzo will receive opening support from HBK, 
made up of Holden Howard and Connor Schrills, who won Over Easy Creative’s Gainesville electron-ic dance music contest. He joined other Gainesville DJs in creating a 45-minute mix that received the 
most likes on Facebook. His mix was then selected 
from the top three by the Over Easy Creative team.
The opening support and Lorenzo himself add 
to Over Easy Creative’s artistic vision. 
“What our Over Easy squad loves about Chris Lorenzo is that he’s been relentlessly pushing his sound for so long, and it’s changed over time as he’s soaked up inspiration from those he remixes,” Voss said.Artist spotlight: Russ, a 
soon-to-be hip-hop star Producer Chris Lorenzo to perform DJ set in Gainesville 
MUSIC
 MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
U.K. producer Chris Lorenzo will perform 
tonight at Gold Room Nightclub. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
CONDO w/4 rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-20-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
2003 NISSAN MAXIMA
V6, 164k miles. sunroof, new stereo, new 
tires. Well maintained. $3200. 352-359-3499    
1-23-5-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Naproxen brand
6 Yap
10 Documentary
divisions
14 Ricoh competitor
15 Green-skinned
“Return of the
Jedi” girl
16 Approaching
17 Not shady
18 Action figure?19 Site of Shah
Jahan’s tomb
20 Protective charm
often adorned
with feathers
23 Decorative globe
26 Ice cream maker
Joseph
27 Holed a five-
footer, say
28 Start of a hands-
off declaration?
30 Fivers
32 Pigs out (on),
briefly
33 Stamina-testing
ballroom event
36 Longtime Labor
Day telethon org.
37 Wild bunch
38 Gold units: Abbr.40 Forensic
analyst’sdiscovery
46 Swiss river
48 “Peter Pan”
pooch
49 Travel org.
freebie
50 Lamentation52 Miss an easy
grounder, say
53 It can follow
directions
54 Device found in
this puzzle’s
three other
longest answers
58 Cold drink brand
59 Come & Get It!
pet food maker
60 Annoyed
64 Like some
warnings
65 Jetty66 “Keen!”
67 Fresh answers
68 Quick on one’s
feet69 “Business @ the
Speed of
Thought” 
co-author
DOWN
1 Guns N’ Roses’
Rose
2 Sheltered side
3 Bit of work
4 Cancel5 More than just
edgy
6 Morning fare
since 1952
7 Study, e.g.8 Actor Baldwin
9 Rampart topper
10 Legislate
11 Punctual12 Concurred13 Result of a
messy breakup?
21 Wax-coated
cheese
22 Rear23 Ancient
24 Gad about
25 Wall Street figures
29 1980 Chrysler
debut
30 Something in the
air
31 Cake with a kick34 “Too true!”35 Creole vegetable39 German
industrial region
41 Youngest BrontÎ42 Short rests43 Weight allowance44 Stud, e.g.45 ICU worker46 Rose garden pests47 “The Good Wife”
wife
51 Nice thoughts?52 Bishop John for
whom a Georgiauniversity wasnamed
55 Movie trailer unit56 Imitator57 One-half base
times height, fora triangle
61 Dennings of “2
Broke Girls”
62 Juillet’s season63 Big affairs
By Kurt Krauss©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/19/1701/19/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 19, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
 Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
Needed a stable & reliable person long termto sell & set up a wine tasting part time for $10/hr. Hours: Tues 3-4pm, Sat 11-5pm, Sun 12-4pm, Please call Mary for an interview this weekend & next week at 478-550-4140.    1-25-17-5-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
How To Fund Your Projects With Bitcoin & Crowdfunding. For More Details Go To ===> www.bitcoinexplosion.info (267) 549-9815     1-23-17-5-20
Post Card Marketing System "Secure a second income, not a second job" www.abminfo.com Referred by # 5784 P. Wilson     1-25-17-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-19-17-10-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The Florida women's basketball team, led by coach Amanda Butler, will try to snap a ﬁ  ve-game conference losing streak this Sunday. For a full preview, see tomorrow's paper. Florida softball team selected to win SEC
The UF softball team is the favorite to win its conference for the fourth con-
secutive season, the SEC ofﬁ  ce announced Wednesday. The Gators have 
won the last two SEC regular season championships.MEN'S BASKETBALL: UF 53, S. CAROLINA 57
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Kasey Hill knifed through a forest of 
players like a speeding predator toward 
its prey. He ripped the ball out of the hands of South Carolina forward Sedee Keita and sprinted down the court. Flor-ida’s 6-foot-1 guard was all alone when he leapt into the air and kissed the ball 
off the glass and into the basket.
With nearly six minutes expired in 
the ﬁ  rst half, it was the ﬁ  rst score of the 
game — by either team.Just a few seconds later, Hill forced 
another steal, this time picking the pocket 
of Gamecocks guard Rakym Felder, and converted another uncontested layup.
It became a familiar sight in a ﬁ  rst half 
that saw Hill register 11 points and four steals. 
But that all vanished once the second 
half started.
Hill fouled out of the game with under 
two minutes to play, leaving graduate transfer Canyon Barry as Florida’s only source of offense for the rest of the night. The 6-foot-6 guard led the Gators with 13 points, but it wasn’t enough.
With the sound of the ﬁ  nal buzzer re-
verberating across Colonial Life Arena, No. 24 South Carolina (15-3, 5-0 SEC) snapped No. 19 Florida’s seven-game win streak with a 57-53 victory in Colum-bia on Wednesday night.
“They were terriﬁ  c defensively,” UF 
coach Mike White said of the Game-cocks. “They didn’t allow for many open shots, and the few open ones we got, we just didn’t convert.”
From the opening tip, both teams set 'Cocks rise to occasion, topple No. 19 UFNO, THIS IS PATRICK
Picture the National Baseball Hall of Fame as 
the expensive flower vase that sits in your mom’s 
living room. 
Perched on its pedestal for all to see, it should 
be kept pristine and safe at all costs. 
But the contents in the prized pot don’t all 
have to be roses — you know, the Ken Griffey 
Jr.'s , the Nolan Ryans, the Hank Aarons of base-
ball history. The sure bets.
It’s perfectly OK to mix in a few wilting lilies 
in the bouquet as well. I’ll explain what I mean by that soon.
On Wednesday, the HOF’s Class of 2017 was 
announced. 
The Baseball Writers’ Association of America 
elected Jeff Bagwell, Tim Raines and Ivan Rodri-
guez, whom all most definitely deserve to be en-
shrined in Cooperstown.
But Bagwell’s case in particular was an inter-
esting one. 
The longtime Houston Astros first baseman’s 
449 home runs and career .297 batting average weren’t the issues in question. Rather, it was steroid suspicions that have clouded him, paired with the fact that he admitted to using Andro-
stenedione, a substance that was banned after he 
said he used it.
But here’s the thing: Bagwell never tested posi-
tive for performance enhancing drugs. 
In a country based on the principle of innocent 
until proven guilty, it wasn’t fair to keep Bagwell  Baseball HOF should 
keep standards high 
but stay objective
GYMNASTICS
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Rachel Slocum stands at 5-foot-
3.
But what the junior lacks in stat-
ure, she makes up for in spunk.
“Rachel’s just been a breath of fresh air for this team,” coach Jenny 
Rowland said on Wednesday. 
“She has come in as a junior and 
stepped into a role that I don’t think she was even prepared for but has handled with a lot of poise and a lot of grace. And a lot of personality.”
And despite having only compet-ed in a Florida leotard twice so far, Slocum has wasted no time leaving her mark on the program’s record book.
In the ﬁ  rst home meet of her ca-
reer on Friday against Kentucky, she earned a 9.95 on vault, the highest home debut on vault in school his-tory since junior Alex McMurtry’s ﬁ  rst meet in 2015, which was a 10.
But while Slocum’s career-high 
score was impressive, her unusual vault is what caught the attention of 
many.
Unlike many collegiate gym-
nasts who attempt some form of a 
"Yurchenko" on the apparatus, Slo-
cum performs a front handspring 
pike-front with a half twist.“I just didn’t really like Yurch-
enkos, mentally,” Slocum said. “I 
started competing that vault when I 
was a freshman in high school. And 
I obviously started with a tuck and 
the progression to the pike half is 
what I came to. … I just think that when I compete it and people see it 
they are like, ‘Oh, no one does that’ 
and I’m like, ‘Well yeah, I guess I Junior transfer excelling early  on vault for Gators
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
She scored a 9.95 in her last meetSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15The Associated Press
Florida forward Devin Robinson, left, with teammate Justin Leon, grabs a rebound during UF's loss to South Carolina.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
am kind of special.’”
Prior to her joining Florida, the 
Eastern Michigan transfer already 
had an accomplished collegiate career.
During the 2016 season, she was 
the Mid-American Conference Spe-cialist of the Year and was part of the group that won the MAC team 
title. 
She was also just the second 
NCAA Championships qualiﬁ  er in 
Eastern Michigan history.
And while her teammates have 
helped ease her transition to Florida 
this season, they weren’t sure what 
to make of her energetic personality when they ﬁ  rst met her.
“I think at ﬁ  rst they were a little 
confused and surprised at how en-
ergetic I was,” Slocum said. 
“But now that I have been with 
them for a while and they know 
that's what I’m about, and they 
know I am at 110-percent energy 
all the time, I think they have really 
embraced me. I think they like me a lot.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGYM,  from pg. 14She came 
from Eastern 
Michigan out of the Hall for as long as he 
was.
Then you have Curt Schilling. 
Curt bleeping Schilling. 
The former starting pitcher 
was fired from his position as an ESPN analyst last year after 
sharing a controversial Facebook 
post that sided with North Caro-lina’s transgender bathroom law. 
And last November, Schilling 
tweeted a picture of a T-shirt sug-
gesting the lynching of journal-
ists along with his own thoughts: “Ok, so much awesome here…”
All of that is disgusting, trust 
me. 
But the guy is still Hall of 
Fame worthy.
Schilling’s 20-year career was 
dominant at its peak, as he re-
corded more than 200 wins and 
3,000 strikeouts and would’ve nabbed two Cy Young Awards if not for teammate Randy John-
son.
He also cranked it up another 
notch in the postseason, as evi-
denced by his 11-2 record and three World Series rings.
Yes, it didn’t take long for 
Schilling to go from gritty, bloody sock-wearing ace to out-spoken right-wing nut job, but 
Curt Schilling the baseball player 
shouldn’t be crucified for it. 
And unfortunately, he has 
been. 
When it seemed Schilling was 
gaining steam last year by gar-nering 52.3 percent of votes (he needs 75 percent to be inducted), 
that number dropped to 45 per-
cent in 2017.
Of course character should be 
considered — Pete Rose can tell you all about that — but a play-er’s on-field performance should outweigh that by a large margin. 
Patrick Pinak is the online 
sports editor. His columns ap-
pear on Thursdays. Contact him 
at ppinak@alligator.org or fol
low 
him on Twitter @pinakk12 .COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Rachel Slocum, left, celebrates with teammates during UF's win over Kentucky on Friday. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Rachel Slocum performs her ﬂ  oor routine during Florida's meet against Kentucky on Friday. 
RACHEL SLOCUM  
Junior
Holly Springs, North Carolina
EVENTS
Balance Beam
Vault
Floor
CAREER BEST SCORES
Vault: 9.95
Floor: 9.9016   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2017
the tone with their defense, while 
neither team could get started on offense. Florida and South Caro-lina shot just 38.7 percent and 23.3 percent from the ﬁ  eld in the open-ing frame, respectively. While Hill was the Gators’ primary scorer in the half, forward Devin Robinson chipped in six points and ﬁ  ve re-bounds. And after a free throw by Hill and an unanswered prayer, half-court airball by Sindarius Thornwell, the Gators (14-4, 5-1 SEC) went into the locker room with a 28-21 lead. 
The Gamecocks came out to 
play in the ﬁ  nal half, though.
South Carolina, sparked by 
gritty defense and the overpower-ing play of the 6-foot-5, 211-pound Thornwell — who led all scorers with 20 points on 5-of-11 shoot-ing — went on a 14-2 run in almost an eight-minute span. The Gators, meanwhile, went 0-of-9 from the ﬁ  eld to let the Gamecocks back in the game.
“You can’t dance against a 
team like this,” White said. “When you’re playing cat-and-mouse, creating indecision for the ball handler … they’re really quick, and they’re really strong at the guard spots.”
As South Carolina's offense 
started to catch up to its defense, Barry kept Florida aﬂ  oat and with-in striking distance.
However, with 16 seconds left 
and the Gators down three, UF guard Chris Chiozza threw an er-
rant pass out of bounds as Barry 
backed up toward the corner three-point line.
One Thornwell free throw later  
and the game was out of reach, and 
despite 15 turnovers and 29.4-per-
cent shooting, the Gamecocks held 
on. 
For the game, South Carolina 
held Florida to 35.2-percent shoot-
ing and UF missed all of its 17 
three-point attempts.
“I don’t know if I’ve ever been 
apart of something like that,” White 
said. “We’ve got some things to 
work on offensively.”
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
HOOPS,  from pg. 14UF didn't sink a three-pointer for the irst time in 850 games
FLORIDA'S TOP SCORERS
• Kasey Hill: 11 points 
(5-for-8 shooting), four steals and two assists
• Canyon Barry : 13 
points
The Associated Press
UF coach Mike White communicates with players during his team's loss to South Carolina on Wednesday.
