We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 19 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
HOMECOMING EDITION
‘A DIFFERENT FEELING’
For military veterans who were stationed 
around the world, homecoming means something different 
OVERCOMING THE FLOOD 
Gainesville’s natural areas still 
recovering from Irma 
+
Teaching Gators
Gainesville small business 
owners face a developing city 
The legacy of the longest-
working UF professor 
Gainesville small business 
Changing Times 
‘Like a Funnel’ 
Proposed fee increases may 
speed up the stream of 
students seen by the CWCSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 19
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  87° LOW  73°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-19 financial 
aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at 
fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-19 FAFSA 
is now available. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-19 FAFSA from the fed-
eral processor is Dec. 15. Apply 
well before Dec. 15 to ensure the 
federal processor has time to ana-
lyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov 
or contact your SFA financial aid 
adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Faculty Member from the  
UF College of Journalism and Communications 
and
Student Member at Large
(unpaid members of the Board of Directors)
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 6.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, October 
9 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on October 26 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the openings of the following:FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After weeks of debate and reorganizing, 
avowed white nationalist Richard Spencer 
will officially speak at UF on Oct. 19. 
UF emailed students Thursday afternoon 
that Spencer will speak at 2:30 p.m. Oct. 
19 at the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts. The National Policy Institute, of which Spencer is the president, will pay $10,564 to rent the space, while UF and other agen-cies, including the University Police and the 
Gainesville Police, will spend about $500,000 
total to “enhance security on campus and in the city of Gainesville,” according to UF’s statement. 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said UF is 
unable to charge Spencer’s organization any more for security costs. 
The email UF sent to students empha-
sized that UF is not sponsoring the event.
“No one at the University of Florida in-vited Richard Spencer,” read the email. “The racist ideas espoused by this organization 
and this individual conflict with the values 
of this institution.”
UF also launched freespeech.ufl.edu, to 
provide information about Spencer’s visit to UF. 
Sikes said more security details will be re-
leased in the next few weeks, including more information on road closures for Oct. 19.
According to the newly launched web-
site, UF cannot prevent groups or individu-als from speaking in a public forum unless it causes security threats.
Sikes said reorganizing Spencer’s appear-
ance, which his organization originally re-quested for Sept. 12, allowed UF to come up with a security plan for the day of the event.
“It was always, always, always about the 
safety and security of faculty, staff and stu-dents,” Sikes said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org Richard Spencer will officially visit UF in two weeks By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
When Jason Conner returned to the U.S. 
after his deployment in the Marine Corps, his 
first stop was at a gas station. 
He was amazed at all the products the gas 
station held, the many options he had and that the language written on the products 
was something he understood. 
“It was only a gas station, but that’s a mo-
ment I will never forget,” Conner said. 
Conner, vice president of the Collegiate 
Veterans Society, organized the society’s 
float for UF’s Homecoming Parade on Friday. 
He said Homecoming at UF serves as a re-minder of his own return to the U.S. from the 
military. 
“Homecoming is completely different for 
(student veterans) in a way,” Conner said. “The first time I stepped foot in America, it 
was a whole different feeling.” 
A five-ton military truck is set to drive 
down University Avenue and serve as the so-ciety’s float in the parade. 
“We are going to be wearing our military 
shorts, running around, waving flags and supporting some praise,” he said. 
Charlotte Kemper, the Veterans Affairs 
counselor at UF’s Collegiate Veterans Suc-cess Center, has been walking in the parade with the Collegiate Veterans Society since she started working at UF in 2013. 
“It’s very exciting because they come to-
gether for the camaraderie,” she said. 
David Leh, a U.S. Navy veteran and UF 
engineering junior, said Kemper is like a cheerleader for the veterans in the center and that her presence helps them.
The Collegiate Veterans Society holds their 
biweekly meetings tucked away in Yon Hall, a building hidden in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
The space serves as a home away from 
home for student veterans, Leh said. When he’s not in class, he’s in the office studying 
or hanging out with friends.
The center is a resource for student veter-
ans to receive counseling, study and spend their free time surrounded by fellow student 
veterans, Kemper said.  
Strewn across a cork board are images of 
student veterans from their time in the mil-itary. One of the walls holds a map of the world covered in pins to show the far away 
places these student veterans were deployed 
to, from different U.S. locations to places in-cluding Europe, Africa and Southeast Asia. 
The center was established in January 
2013, Kemper said. UF is one of only 94 uni-versities in the nation with a Collegiate Veter-
ans Success Center. 
“Traditionally, the Veterans Affairs pro-
gram is (to) call an 800 number and sit on hold,” Kemper said. “But with this program, it’s an open door.”
UF competed with other universities to 
be selected by the Veterans Affairs Office for 
the Collegiate Veterans Success Center to  be 
established on campus. Kemper said UF was 
chosen for the space because they proved themselves most eager to provide for the vet-
erans. 
UF volunteered a physical location for 
their center and decided to have a success counselor on campus, which Kemper said 
was unique. 
Kemper works closely with student vet-
erans and dependents to ensure they are re-ceiving their veteran health and education benefits, systems that can sometimes be com-
plicated to navigate, she said.
“It’s just a joy to be able to make a differ-
ence and help even in the tiniest way,” she said. 
Samantha Cooper, a UF agricultural edu-
cation and communication senior, served in the U.S. Air Force for five years, spending 
some of her time in Djibouti, Africa. She was medically discharged from the Air Force three 
years ago and started at UF in Fall 2016.
She chose UF specifically because of its 
resources for veterans.
“This is a school that is well known for 
taking care of its veterans,” Cooper said.  
The help Kemper provides is not limited to 
veteran benefits, Cooper said. She described Kemper as her lifeline for all issues that come up in her life. 
“I was having trouble with computer ac-
cess just to get sport tickets, and she sat with me on the phone with these people just to get 
that taken care of,” Cooper said. “She does things she definitely does not have to for us.”
When Cooper was in the Air Force, she 
had direct resources to assist her with any of her needs and was continuously under in-
struction, she said. Adjusting to the abrupt 
end of that assistance after being discharged was difficult for her.
“When you come out and you do every 
aspect of your life, you have to figure out ev-erything,” she said.  
Leh said the center builds a sense of com-
munity for student veterans.  
“We are older than the average student, 
and we have had experiences that are differ-ent from the average student, so it’s nice to come here and express how we feel where 
everyone will understand,” Leh said. 
Cooper said the space helped her find her 
way on campus.
“(The center) is our safe space,” Cooper 
said. “It’s a family.” 
@camille_respess
crepess@alligator.orgA different homecoming: Veteran students find home at UF
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Photographs of members in uniform and in the field are displayed on the walls of the UF Collegiate 
Veterans Success Center.T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Stickers, patches and other free trinkets sit on the bookshelves of the lounge area in the UF Collegiate Veterans Success Center located in Yon Hall.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
· REDUCED · · NO SERVICE ·
RTS Routes: 
19, 21, 27, 28, 29, 36, 37, 
38, 39, 40, 46, 62, 76, 77 
     and UF campus routes.RTS Routes: 
9, 10, 12, 13, 20, 23, 33, 34, 
35, 43 (last run at 7:09 p.m. from 
Santa Fe College to Shands). 
Later Gator will run as normal. 
*Routes running are marked with an “R” in the online and printed versions of the RTS 
schedule.  Note that there may be detours and delays between 10:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. 
associated with the UF Homecoming Parade.West University Ave: Closures for the 
Gator Gallop will begin at 10:50 a.m. Friday. That closure includes West University Avenue from the 2200 block, near the football stadium, to 13th Street.
Closures for the Homecoming Parade will 
begin at 11:45 a.m. on Friday. University Avenue will be closed from West 22nd Street to East 3rd Street and Main Street will be closed from North 2nd Avenue to South 4th Avenue.   Typically the roadway opens at about 2 p.m.By Kaylee Kastle
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the wake of Sunday’s Las Vegas shooting, 
UF students expressed concern for their safety 
at Homecoming.
At least 58 people were killed and almost 500 
were injured after shooting, according to ABC 
News. Among those injured is a UF law student, 
who was shot and suffered a collapsed lung. 
Jamie Woodrum, a UF chemistry sopho-
more, said the shooting put her on edge about Gator Growl.
“I’ll deﬁ  nitely be more aware,” Woodrum said. “(I’ll) know where the closest exits are and stuff.”
Woodrum said she thinks University Police 
know what to do in an active shooter situation, but students don’t.
“I feel like (UPD) should have at least sent 
out an email with an emergency plan,” the 20-year-old said. “Especially after the shooting just happened, just to ease people’s minds.”
GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias 
said the best thing for people to do in an ac-tive shooter situation is to run. He said people 
should always have their own safety plans. 
“People shouldn’t be completely surprised if something like this were to happen,” he said. 
There have no been no security issues in the 
past at UF’s Homecoming festivities, including Gator Growl, the Homecoming parade, festival 
or pageant, said Millie Llanes, Gator Growl’s ex-ecutive producer.
Llanes said safety is the top concern for Flor-
ida Blue Key, the student organization in charge of Gator Growl. 
“We’ll do whatever to make sure everyone 
feels safe coming to our event,” she said
UPD spokesperson Maj. Brad Barber said 
he’s conﬁ  dent local police are prepared for emergency situations, including an active shoot-er. 
“Our security plan brings into account all 
possible scenarios,” he said. “We are constantly 
looking at events around the country and basing 
things off that.”
Tobias said he’s aware of heightened safety 
concerns among people attending Homecom-ing, but added that people may not notice all the security that goes into the event. 
Tobias and Barber encourage anyone who 
sees suspicious activity to immediately report it to authorities and to take quick action in any 
dangerous situation. 
“We rely on the public,” Tobias said. UF students, police rethink safety after Las Vegas shootingThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORIt’s the Homecoming football game, and you and your 
friends have been eagerly waiting all week to watch the 
Gators crush the Louisiana State University Tigers. You’re 
a little groggy after staying up late to watch Snoop Dogg 
perform at Gator Growl, but — let’s be honest — it was worth it.
After a surprisingly impressive ﬁ  rst quarter, the march-
ing band takes the ﬁ  eld. The Gators just made a touchdown, and they’re ahead by six points. High spirits permeate the stadium. As the band members navigate the ﬁ  eld, you ex-pect them to spell out “Gators” or maybe create the outline of the state of Florida. Much to your surprise, however, 
instead they arrange themselves to spell out:
Darts & Laurels
Homecoming is a fun time here at UF, but the festivities 
aren’t distracting us from the other tragedies in the world 
this year. Much to our dismay, deciding on the ﬁ  rst dart 
of this week was something that took no effort at all. The devastating and downright infuriating mass shooting that occurred in Las Vegas earlier this week has left America and much of the world in disarray and anguish. 
Fifty-eight people lost their lives at the hands of the 
shooter, and almost 500 people were left injured. The trag-edy was named the worst and deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. The aftermath of the catastrophe is a dark time for our country, and we can only hope we don’t 
see another similar travesty play out in the future. 
In news closer to home, UF announced Thursday af-
ternoon that the white nationalist Richard Spencer will of-
ﬁ  cially be coming to UF on Oct. 19. Addressing the free 
speech and safety concerns this event raises would frankly 
take an entire editorial, so for now we’re going to settle with giving Spencer a dart for wanting to spread his hate-
ful, racist rhetoric in the ﬁ  rst place.
Even the darkest clouds, however, can have a silver 
lining. The UF community has been coming together after 
the horriﬁ  c shooting to help ease the recovery of one of 
our very own. Kristin Babik, a UF law student, was injured in the shooting and left with a punctured lung and broken ribs. Although Babik is now in stable condition, she is still far from being completely healed.
Her best friend, Mikey Ballou, created a GoFundMe 
page for Babik in order to help her and her family cover medical expenses and the time they will have to take off work to care for her. Over the last two days, the page is 
more than halfway to reaching its $10,000 goal with nearly 
$7,000 already raised to help Babik, as of press time.
Seeing the strength and unity of The Gator Nation is 
something that truly warmed our hearts in a time when the world seems so cold. The devotion of Ballou to his 
friend and the generosity of The Gator Nation is a laurel 
we all need during this devastating time.
The goodness we saw in our community has made us 
that much more proud to be attending the best university 
in the state. With our Gator pride at an all-time high, we 
are fully prepared to celebrate our school. The greatest laurel of this week is, of course, the fact that it’s ﬁ  nally 
Homecoming! We could not be any more excited to 
celebrate among our fellow Gators, present and past. Happy Homecoming, Gators!Gov. Scott has blame in nursing home tragedy
Gov. Rick Scott has made every effort to 
wash his hands of the Sept. 13 South Florida nursing home tragedy, which left 12 residents dead. In my opinion, he shouldn’t absolve himself so quickly.
The Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills, a 
152-bed nursing home, left a series of voicemails on Scott’s personal cellphone after losing air condi-tioning during Irma, asking him to ensure Florida Power & Light prioritize the facility. 
After three days of using spot coolers and fans 
to tame stiﬂ  ing heat, eight residents died with body tempera-tures as high as 109.9 degrees. Only then were people evacu-ated to Memorial Regional Hospital directly across the street. 
Four more residents have died since. 
Facility representatives shrugged in response, maintain-
ing they followed emergency preparedness protocols. They 
shifted blame onto Scott for failing to deliver an FPL rescue squad. Scott ﬁ  red back saying, “It’s a ridiculous and irrational suggestion that my personal cell phone is somehow a substi-tute for 911.”
The governor is right. Medical professionals — especially 
those who tout their proximity to one of the state’s largest 
hospitals — have no excuse for failing to monitor the health 
of their residents. Alas, he may still prove responsible. 
Scott took ofﬁ  ce in 2011 during a regulatory crisis in Flor-
ida’s health care industry. A Miami Herald investigative re-port released three months after his inauguration uncovered widespread, systemic abuse and neglect of elderly in Florida long-term care facilities. 
“While his caretakers watched him die … ,” one incident 
from the report began. “(T)hey let him languish for days at 
the Tampa assisted-living facility where he lived in 2006 — 
vomiting and defecating in his bed ... ”
These stories shocked lawmakers and health care industry 
professionals. According to Brian Lee, the former state direc-tor of the Long-Term Care Ombudsman Program, lawmakers almost unanimously expected  serious overhaul and reform in the 2012 legislative session, which didn’t happen. 
Fast forward to 2014. An expansive health care reform bill ﬁ  nally reaches the governor’s desk, and he quickly signs it into law. But this reform massively deregu-lates the industry, decreasing oversight of assisted-living facilities, such as those criticized in the Mi-ami Herald’s report.
So why would a governor sign a bill like this 
into law following these horriﬁ  c revelations?
Health care birthed Scott. At age 34, he co-
founded what would eventually become the larg-est private for-proﬁ  t health care company in the U.S. The money he made as CEO propelled him to 
the governor’s ofﬁ  ce, and in his 2014 re-election bid, health care companies topped his list of largest campaign donors. 
Put plainly, Scott looks out for the industry that gave him 
his political legs. The tragedy at the Hollywood Hills rehab center is the consequence of that decision. 
A Medicare agency inspection this year rated the facility  
“much below average” in health inspection  and a “below av-erage” overall rating. Issues included failure to “store, cook, and serve food in a safe and clean way.”
What’s more, the nursing home’s manager, Dr. Jack Mi-
chel, paid $15 million in 2004 to settle Medicare and Medicaid fraud claims without admitting wrongdoing. 
None of this was enough to impose stricter regulatory 
measures on the facility. Scott led efforts in the opposite direc-tion, allowing the implementation of complicated redaction software which turned facility inspection reports into frag-mented codes that require a cryptographer to decipher them. 
According to Lee, consumers now can’t distinguishing be-
tween high and low quality homes. Residents gamble, and health care providers slouch with proﬁ  tability unscathed.  
Until we hold Scott and the state legislature accountable 
and establish a powerful lobbying arm in Tallahassee for nursing home and assisted-living facilities’ residents, this situ-ation won’t improve, and we can only wait for what horrors the next investigative report turns up.
Champe Barton is a UF economics and behavioral and 
cognitive neuroscience senior. His column appears on Fridays.
Champe Barton
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
The Renaissance is known as the “cultur-
al bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history,” according to Wikipedia, with the genesis being in Florence, Italy, in the 14th century. It was a vibrant peri-
od of exploding artistic expression and impres-sive intellectual and philosophical exploration.   The Renaissance brought more than just new artistic perspectives and techniques. It also brought a fresh emphasis on powers and limitless potential for human observation and reasoning. When such intellectual revolutions catch ﬁ  re, their effects are felt on nearly every level of society, from the sciences to govern-
ment, but every ﬂ  ame needs a spark.
The Medici family ruled Florence as a fam-
ily of wealthy bankers. Instead of simply sitting around counting their money, they 
decided to sponsor local artists and scientists.
The Medicis wouldn’t have 
sponsored these brilliant minds if 
they didn’t get something they val-
ued out of it. Be it a beautiful ceiling to a new church or a summertime math tutor for their son, the exact reasons why these artists and scien-tists were paid doesn’t matter. The point is they were supported and encouraged enough that they could freely go about their business and do what they excelled at. It is difﬁ  cult to create 
art on an empty stomach and impossible when 
you can’t afford paint and canvases.
No matter how great or transcendent an idea might be, it is nothing until it is executed and brought into the world. 
Today, patronage has taken a 
slightly different form, but the cen-
tral idea and its effectiveness is still 
present. Patreon is a website where a few clicks of a mouse can provide ﬁ  nancial support to creators, all via monthly subscriptions.
The idea behind Patreon is almost as old as 
art itself, but its applicability and effectiveness in the internet age are astounding. Consumers are turned off by the idea of traditional enter-
tainment subscriptions, most notably cable TV 
or HBO, for which you pay one lump sum for a bunch of options, most of which you don’t care about. Wouldn’t it be nice to pay only for the content you wish to consume?
Traditional TV is dying at the hand of the 
internet. With Patreon, podcasters, lecturers, ﬁ  lmmakers and artists now have a place to 
obtain consistent revenue, directly from those 
consuming the product. What results is not only signiﬁ  cant savings for consumers, who now can pay only for the content they desire, but more importantly the supporting of cre-ators. Eliminating the cloud of ﬁ  nancial inse-curity lingering over creators frees them and allows them to do what they do best: create. When this happens, everybody wins.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
Patreon is a nod to the past and a jump into the future of expressionColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
FLORIDA WAS THE 35TH STATE 
TO IMPLEMENT ONLINE VOTER 
REGISTRATION.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Since online voter registration started Sun-
day in Florida, more than 80 Alachua County 
residents have registered online.
Florida was the 35th state to launch on-
line voter registration, said Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Kim Barton. She said the registration website, registertovoteflori-
da.gov, has been successful within the first 
week.
“That’s quite a few people having just 
launched,” Barton said. “We look forward to seeing how well it’s going to do in the fu-
ture.”
The online and paper applications are 
nearly identical, Barton said. The online ap-
plication asks additional security questions.
Seven to 10 days after the registrant com-
pletes the online application, they receive a voter information card and are eligible to vote.
“It’s easy, it’s accessible. It’s 24/7,” Bar-
ton said.
Barton said it is easier to handle appli-
cations submitted online than deciphering handwriting on a print application.
Meanwhile, Thursday on Turlington Plaza, 
Shreyas Amol Jethwani was still registering students on paper. The political director of UF College Democrats said his group hasn’t trained for online voter registration yet.
“With someone like Rick Scott implement-
ing it, you have to be careful,” Jethwani, the 21-year-old UF history junior said. “We don’t want to jump into it without adequate prepa-ration.”
Still, Jethwani feels cautiously optimis-
tic about online registration, which he said could make registering students simpler.
“Getting people registered to vote is only 
half the battle, and it’s the easy half,” he 
said. “Regardless of how you register to vote, 
please register to vote.”
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgOnline voter registration available
THERE ARE ABOUT 49,000 
AVAILABLE POSITIONS IN 
VETERAN AFFAIRS NATIONWIDE.
By Cat Gloria
Alligator Contributing Writer
Muriel Newman held up a sign Thursday 
for drivers on Archer Road to let them know “no vets should wait in line.”
Newman, the president of the local dis-
trict of the American Federation of Govern-ment Employees, rallied with other federa-tion members in front of the Malcom Randall 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center to spread 
the word about the about 49,000 positions needed in Veteran Affairs nationwide. New-man said at the Malcom Randall VA Medical Center alone there are more than 600 un-
filled positions, mainly in nursing, primary 
care and specialty positions.
“This administration is not hiring,” she 
said. “The director is spending money hir-
ing managers and getting his bonus.”
Daniel Henry, the public affairs officer 
for North Florida/South Georgia Veterans 
Health System, said the medical center is only short 377 staff members. 
“We actively recruit,” he said. ”The va-
cancies are a normal thing, and they don’t impact our veterans getting care.” 
Ruth Brown, an Army Reserve veteran 
and nurse practitioner at the medical cen-ter who rallied alongside Newman, said the lack of employees not only affects the vet-erans who need care, but also the workers. 
“Because I work in the union, I see em-
ployees complain that they are being dis-ciplined for things that they can’t keep up with,” she said. “They are burned out.”
Brown said a lack of employees affects 
the workers and the veterans who need care.
“The VA is really important to veterans, 
they deserve the best care possible,” she said.Union members 
rally for VABy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
The first time Estevan Torres walked into 
the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, or 
La Casita, it felt just like his grandmother’s home.
The wall color, arrangement of furniture 
and welcoming atmosphere all felt familiar to the then-freshman student, Torres said.
“The only thing that was missing was a 
plate of beans and rice,” he said.
La Casita became his refuge, a place to get 
away from the bustle of campus. He started attending Bible study meetings at the house each Tuesday or slipping away between classes to nap in the building’s library.
A few weeks ago, Torres, a UF alumni, 
drove by the empty lot where La Casita used to be. He wasn’t sure what he was seeing — 
until it clicked.
Hundreds of Hispanic and black alumni 
will return to Gainesville this weekend and 
next for Homecoming. Traditionally, the re-unions were held in La Casita or the Institute of Black Culture. Now only dirt lots remain, the houses demolished in late August.
Torres said alumni will be excited for the 
future of the houses, but might become emo-
tional.
“I passed by the house, and I wasn’t ready 
for it,” he said. “I hope they’re all ready for 
it.”
Both of the old buildings, wooden hous-
es set up on West University Avenue, were closed in January for planned demolition. Over the Summer, controversy about wheth-er the two buildings would be rebuilt as one 
unified center sparked protests. In July, Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs announced the buildings would remain separate.
MCDA recently began holding a series of 
seven listening sessions to get student input.
Will Atkins, the executive director of 
MCDA, said the rebuilding project will cost $6.3 million.
Display boards are currently in the MCDA 
office for people to give feedback on the kinds of spaces they want in the new insti-tutes, Atkins said.
“There’s lots of positivity moving forward 
with the project,” Atkins said. “We are doing our best to make sure multiple voices are be-
ing heard.”After spending nearly her whole academic 
life in a private, predominantly white school, 
Tricia Tibby-Edmonds felt like a dot. She wanted to go to a black school.
She had her eyes set on Florida A&M in 
Tallahassee, but her mother, a Jamaican im-migrant, refused.
“You’re not going to go to a black school, 
you’re going to go to a white school,” she said.
Today, Tibby-Edmonds, 46, said she’s 
glad she went to UF, even if she was at a pre-dominantly white school. Even if on her first night in Gainesville, walking to Krispy Kreme Doughnuts with friends, a man shouted the N-word at her out of his car.
While Tibby-Edmonds was a student, she 
became treasurer of the UF Black Student Union, which would have meetings in the Institute of Black Culture even if space in the Reitz Union was available. The stairs were squeaky, and people had to sit on the floor, but Tibby-Edmonds said nobody minded.
“I am pretty sure whoever was the con-
sulting team who thought this was the best 
step, whoever the eyes were, they didn’t look 
like the people who the building belonged to,” she said. “At all.”
When Tibby-Edmonds, who graduated in 
1994, returned for football games with her kids, they always took photos outside the IBC.
It upset her to see the historic IBC building 
torn down instead of refurbished, like similar 
old houses in Savannah, Georgia.
She said the history of the building was 
important and valuable.
The IBC was gained after students con-
ducted sit-ins and protests in the office of 
former UF President Stephen C. O’Connell on a day known as Black Thursday. Nearly 100 students withdrew from the school to protest.
“All the great buildings, that’s what’s 
done, you restore them,” she said. “Because they have history behind them. And I just feel like it’s a misstep, it is.”
Although this wasn’t the first year the As-
sociation of Hispanic Alumni or the Associa-tion of Black Alumni didn’t have their Home-coming events in the institutes, it was the first year the buildings weren’t standing.
Kimberly Lopez, the president of the 
Association of Hispanic Alumni, said re-turning alumni didn’t mention or mind the switch. At their Homecoming weekend they listened to a presentation on the construction progress from Gabe Lara, the associate direc-tor of Hispanic-Latino Affairs, to clear up any misconceptions on the rebuilding.
“I think there’s a way to achieve a new 
building while still having the same sense of 
history and pride that many feel with the old 
institute,” Lopez said.
Jacynta Brewton, the president of the As-
sociation of Black Alumni, said alumni would get the chance to comment on proposed de-signs for the Institute of Black Culture. 
Brewton said the initial process wasn’t as 
inclusive as it could have been. Now, as a member of the institute’s project committee, 
Brewton said the process will be more open. 
“I don’t know that everyone was fully 
aware of all the facts,” Brewton said. 
As a student at UF in 2001, Brewton said 
she didn’t use the IBC often but was glad to 
know it was there.
“Most important to me was the IBC ex-
isted,” the 34-year-old said. “If I needed a space, I had a space.”
Amelia Nichols Alava, a UF alumni who 
attended in 1992 and current UF doctoral stu-dent, said she still feels deeply connected to The Gator Nation.
She said in 1992, there weren’t other spac-
es around town for Hispanic students to go — there was only La Casita. It’s where she and other students in the Hispanic Student Association would meet, talk or plan to go 
dancing.
“I was really sad to hear it was torn 
down,” the 43-year-old said. “As a freshman 
it was nice to meet other students with kind of the same background.”
She said the warmth she felt from La 
Casita was in part because it was a house. Though she understands necessity for disabil-ity access, she said if it becomes a modern 
building, it could lose the homey feeling it 
used to have.
“Even if they’re going into a new building, 
I hope it still has the heart and soul that it had when it was a house,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgAlumni react to plans for IBC, La CasitaShelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
PAINTING FOR THE PARADE
Gigi Novak, an 18-year-old UF graphic design freshman, helps Phi Delta Theta 
Fraternity put the finishing touches on the fraternity’s float by painting a dragon.
starts 
Sunday FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
3120 SW Archer Rd. • bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd. • bojangles.com
12 PC SUPER TAILGATE
$29.99
GO GATORS!GO GATORS!Game Day at Blackadder 
Local Craft Beer
Tailgating Growler Fills
Open Early for Home Games
618-A NW 60th ST
(Newberry Rd by McAlister’s)
www.blackadderbrewing.com
352.339.0324DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
• Musicians/Bands  
  WANTED
• Pavilion available for  
  group rental• 18 miles to UF Campus
17500 NE US Highway 301
Waldo, FL 32694
352-468-3988
HE IS UF’S LONGEST-EMPLOYED 
PROFESSOR.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The bond between William Dolbier and UF 
is not easy to break.
In 1966, Dolbier joined UF, and he’s been 
here ever since. 
Dolbier, UF’s longest-employed profes-
sor, almost didn’t become a professor at all. 
With tempting job offers from companies like Procter & Gamble Co., Dolbier said it would have been easy to join the private sector. But he wanted to teach and conduct research, so at age 26, he accepted his ﬁ  rst professor position at UF. 
Dolbier has been with UF for 51 years, and 
the 78-year-old continues to work as the chair-
man of the Department of Chemistry today. 
“I didn’t come here because it was Florida 
or anything, I came here because it was the 
best opportunity for me at a Ph.D. granting in-stitution,” he said. “Originally, I was willing to go anywhere in the country to do that.”
As he began his tenure as an assistant pro-
fessor, Dolbier also began his research pro-gram studying hydrocarbons in physical or-
ganic chemistry. 
He ﬁ  gured if his research didn’t work out, 
he’d ﬁ  nd another job. If it went well, he would 
stay in his career.
“I ﬁ  gured it was worth a six-year part of my 
life to give it a try,” he said. 
He said research and teaching ended up be-
ing his strong suits. He enjoyed the bonds he developed with students who entered his class-
room and ofﬁ  ce over the years.
“I can remember sitting here in my third 
or fourth year and my research program was 
starting to blossom, thinking that ‘I can’t be-lieve they pay me to do this, it’s so much fun,’” he said. From receiving honors from organizations 
like the American Chemical Society, to meet-ing people from across the globe and helping countries like Colombia set up graduate pro-grams, Dolbier said his fondest memories are of where his research has taken him. 
Eventually, Dolbier ﬁ  gured his research 
needed to evolve in order for his career to con-tinue. Funding for his project at the time had run up. In the mid-1970s, he decided to try other avenues. 
“I got turned down a couple of times,” Dol-
bier said. “I thought, ‘Is this the end of my ca-reer as a researcher?’”
Dolbier sat down and brainstormed new 
ideas. He decided to try to understand the re-activity of ﬂ  uoride compounds and said he’s never looked back since. 
Fluorine is an atom with an important im-
pact on the bioactivity of a molecule, he said. It has been recognized within the last 20 to 30 years and is now in about 25 to 30 percent of all pharmaceuticals and agricultural chemicals.
Dolbier’s research helped develop the meth-
odology for getting ﬂ  uorine into molecules. This helps researchers have a better chance of developing products like anti-cancer agents. One of his former graduate students is working on an anti-cancer drug in a California lab using what he learned from the research.
Miles Rubinski, one of Dolbier’s cur-
rent graduate research students, said Dolbier 
doesn’t realize that his legacy reaches farther 
than UF. 
“All I can do is graduate from here, but 
moving forward, wherever I go next, that’s where his legacy will go,” Rubinski said. “Whatever accomplishments I end up having will be partly his as well.” 
David Richardson, the senior associate dean 
of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, met 
Dolbier as an assistant professor in 1983. He 
said he admires Dolbier as a colleague, a re-searcher and a professor. As an incoming ju-nior faculty member, Dolbier’s advice made an impact on Richardson.
“I can still remember advice that he gave to 
me over 30 years ago that still resonates today and that I’ve passed on to my colleagues since that time,” Richardson said. “His message was 
to learn the individual strengths and person-
alities of your graduate students and then de-sign their research projects to maximize their chances of success.”
Richardson still gives that advice to his col-
leagues today, passing on Dolbier’s message.
He said he thinks everyone should adopt 
Dolbier’s balanced demeanor. 
“In times that called for joy, (Dolbier) was 
happy. In times that called for anger, he was calm, and that character is one that we all 
would do well to remember,” Richardson said.
 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgDolbier makes 51 years in UF’s chemistry department
Courtesy to the Alligator
William Dolbier rides a parade ﬂ  oat in 2003 with his granddaughter on the left, his 
nephew in the middle and his son on the right. He was honored with this ﬂ  oat at the parade after winning the Distinguished Faculty Award with Florida Blue Key in 2003.
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
THE STATIONS WILL BE 
AVAILABLE FOR AT LEAST
 SIX MONTHS.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Davonta Jordan used to leave 
his shift at Steak ‘n Shake, his phone was 
always low on power.
About a month ago, Jordan, 21, start-
ed using a solar charging station at the Butler Plaza bus stop during his com-mute. The station is one of 10 installed by the city as part of a six-month pilot program with solar panel design compa-ny Pure Energy Solar, wrote Lynn Janos-ki, the  marketing director, in an email.
The smart charger stations, which 
are standing tables with outlets and USB charging ports underneath a solar panel, were added within the past two months to Depot Park, Possum Creek Park, Fred Cone Park, Westside Recreation Center, Butler Plaza, Rosa Parks Regional Tran-sit System  downtown station, the He-lyx Bridge, Gainesville City Hall and the Dwight H. Hunter Pool, Janoski said.
The Sixth Street bus stop has a solar 
bench, she said.
“When (the stations) were being in-
stalled people came up to us to let us know how excited they were to have them to charge cellphones,” Janoski said.
The smart charger stations start 
at $3,895, and the solar bench costs $10,000, according to Pure Energy’s website.
Chip Skinner, a city spokesperson, 
said after the trial ends, the city may buy the stations for a discounted price.
“I’m sure that (the stations are) very 
popular among residents and visitors and those that use public transportation because I see people using them all the time,” Skinner said. Solar charging stations 
added at parks, bus stops
THE UF LATINO MEDICAL 
STUDENT ASSOCIATION 
STARTED IN SPRING.
By Maria Dominguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new undergraduate organization wants 
to help more Latino students become doctors.
The UF Latino Medical Student Associa-
tion started in Spring 2017, said Robert Cue-
to, the organization’s president. Cueto, 20, said it is the ﬁ  rst such organization to cater to the Hispanic community.
Cueto, a UF applied physiology and kine-
siology junior, created the organization after ﬁ  nding out that only 5 percent of the medical school graduates nationwide are Latinos. 
He also hopes to help health issues spe-
ciﬁ  c to the Latino population, like diabetes and sexually transmitted diseases. 
“We want to help students and empower students to take the leap to get into the pre-medical program,” Cueto said.
Students in the club can join any of ﬁ  ve 
different committees based on their interests, said Sophia Eikenberry, the vice president of the organization. Committees offered are international outreach, community outreach, 
fundraising, student outreach and health dis-
parities. 
“Our primary goal is to make sure that all 
of our members have been exposed to enough information to make an informed decision 
about what they want to do and how they 
want to go about it,” the 19-year-old said.
Eikenberry, a UF neurobiological sciences 
sophomore, said she wants students to get 
hands-on experience to inform their future 
decisions. 
“We really want to make sure that our 
members feel like they are making a change and feel like they are getting just as much, if 
not more, out of the organization as they are 
contributing to it,” Eikenberry said. Club hopes to support Latino 
medical communityBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
To get an appointment at UF’s 
Counseling & Wellness Center, 
Laura Uribe had to sign up the ﬁ  rst day of her freshman year.
Uribe, a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science junior, said she went to the center frequently as a fresh-man and this year and hasn’t had trouble scheduling appointments. 
But Uribe’s case is not standard.The past year, it took nearly two 
weeks for a student on the center’s wait list to get an appointment.
Ernesto Escoto, the director of 
the center, said the number of pa-tients has increased with each year — but the funding the center re-ceives and the number of counsel-ors has remained mostly the same.
“The state legislature has indi-
cated they don’t want to increase tuition, they don’t want to increase any fees, and as a result of that, it’s been very difﬁ  cult to get additional funding over the past two, three years to increase resources in the counseling center,” Escoto said.
In late August, UF President 
Kent Fuchs asked for the UF Board 
of Trustees to approve his plan to 
hire 12 new mental health counsel-ors over three years, without the recurring funds secured yet. UF will use non-recurring funding to pay for the counselors until a new source is found, according to Alli-gator archives.
Escoto said the Provost’s ofﬁ  ce 
approached the Student Affair’s of-ﬁ  ce in Summer with plans to hire new counselors after the center’s request for $2.2 million was denied in May by the Florida Legislature.
Adding the counselors would 
reduce the center’s student-to-counselor ratio, bringing it from one counselor to nearly 1,400 stu-dents, to one counselor to nearly 1,250 students. Escoto said their goal is to have one counselor for 
every 1,000 students.
“The provost has committed to give us the money until we secure 
funding, and this is something that we have to present to the Health Fee Committee,” Escoto said.
The Health Fee allocation is 
decided by UF’s Local Fee Com-mittee, made up of Assistant Vice 
President Kim Pace, Student Gov-
ernment External Affairs agency head Haley Smith, Student Body president’s Chief of Staff Nick Meno, Action SG chair Jackie Phillips, Associate Vice President Jeanna Mastrodicasa, Associate Director of UF’s Student Financial Affairs Ron Anderson, Vice Presi-
dent of Human Resources Jodi 
Gentry and Student Body Vice President Mario Agosto.
Funding from the Health Fee 
makes up 72 percent the center’s budget, Escoto said. Temporary funding covers 13 percent, and the state legislature covers the remain-ing 15 percent.
Wednesday afternoon, Escoto 
presented the committee with a plan to fund the new positions permanently by increasing student fees by 71.4 cents per credit hour. If approved, the additional money would raise the center’s total bud-get from 5.9 million to 6.4 million in the next ﬁ  scal year.
Escoto told the committee the 
center has been maximizing its available resources, but he expects the need for resources to only grow.
“Now that we’re ofﬁ  cially in the 
top 10, I think there’s going to be an increase in the sense of stress on campus,” Escoto said.
In the 2016-2017 school year, 
the center saw 5,088 patients, an increase of more than 300 from the year before, which was an increase of more than 300 from the year be-fore then, according to data Escoto presented.
Compared to 2016, the cen-
ter has seen 516 more instances 
of suicidal thoughts, from ﬂ  eet-
ing thoughts to established plans. They’ve also seen 653 more cases of academic distress, 955 more cases of shyness and social anxi-ety and 701 more cases of sadness and depression. Other problems, like eating concerns and substance 
abuse, increased as well.
“I think college is very stress-
ful for anyone,” Uribe said. “We’re 
not taught about understand-ing ourselves and understanding where our limits are, our boundar-ies are.”
Uribe said if the state legislature 
won’t give the center more fund-
ing, UF should reconﬁ  gure its bud-
get to assist the center. Last year at an event the center held, Uribe told employees she wished they got more funding. They told her if more students advocated, it could create a push for change.
“I’m very displeased with how 
Student Government allocates the 
money and allocates their resourc-
es,” she said.
Student Body President Smith 
Meyers said SG is committed to getting more resources for mental health and making the temporary funding permanent, whether it’s through speaking to university ad-ministrators to ﬁ  nd places in the 
budget or lobbying in Tallahassee.
Meyers said he can’t speak for 
the decision of the Local Fee Com-
mittee since he isn’t a member, but he’s sure they will handle it well.
“I have conﬁ  dence that those 
members will make the appropri-ate decision,” he said. “It’s not the easiest decision for any kind of fee increase because you’re raising the cost of education for students.”
Uribe said it’s upsetting that not 
every student can get the resources they need immediately. Friends of Uribe have had to be put on the wait list.
“It’s kind of like a funnel,” 
Uribe said. “So many people try to go in, but they can only take in a trickle at a time.”
@romyellenbogen
Counseling & Wellness Center tries to secure permanent funding
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly a month after Hurricane 
Irma hit Gainesville, county work-
ers are still working through the 
aftermath.
Nature preserves and boat 
ramps have been slow to reopen, and three parks — Poe Springs 
Park, Holden Pond and Earl P. Powers Park — remain closed due 
to flooding, said Charlie Houder, the county Parks and Conserva-tion Lands director. La Chua Trail 
remains closed due to high floods, said Paynes Prairie Preserve State 
Park parks services specialist Am-ber Roux.
Officials estimate the total cost 
of structural damage in county parks alone will exceed $65,000, not including cleanup costs, which 
are still being considered, Houd-
er said. The parks department’s 
about two dozen employees have 
all been involved in some form of post-hurricane cleanup work.
“We have people who are out 
there working chainsaws and us-
ing tractors and backhoes and 
loaders to move debris,” he said. 
“We all have been on hurricane duty.”
Houder said he’s unsure when 
the three closed county parks can reopen.
The Poe Springs boardwalk, 
which leads from the parking lot 
to the springs area, is still partially underwater and will need a full 
cleanup and inspection before it’s 
opened to the public again, Houder 
said.The peak flood level of the San-
ta Fe River by Poe Springs after the hurricane was roughly 8 feet above 
sea level, according to data from the Suwannee River Water Man-
agement District.
Earl P. Powers Park will prob-
ably be closed for at least a few more weeks due to flooding from 
Newnans Lake, he said.
The county’s about 30 other parks and preserves, on the other hand, have all reopened, Houder said.
At some point in the future, 
Houder said the parks department will present the total costs from 
hurricane damage to the county 
administration, which will de-
termine if it will absorb the costs 
or apply for reimbursement from 
FEMA.“It’s hard to say what will hap-
pen, now,” he said. “We’ve just 
had to give people the best infor-
mation we have.”
Paynes Prairie is nearly 100 
percent reopened with the excep-tion of La Chua Trail. Although the 
rest of the park opened two weeks 
after Hurricane Irma and has been 
fully functional since, the popular 
3-mile round-trip bike and hiking trail remains closed due to high 
floods, said Roux.
“It’s probably our most popular 
trail among UF students,” Roux said of La Chua Trail. “All in all, the park is in good shape. In terms 
of the ecosystem all this water’s 
been a benefit.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgSome Alachua County parks still recovering post-hurricane
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Heavy rainfall post-Hurricane Irma has yielded water levels so high that the once-open fields of Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park now 
more closely resemble lakes. The severe flooding has caused the closure of several trailheads as well as both northbound and southbound lanes of U.S. Route 441 near the state park.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
Looking for Team 
Members to bring a 
European medical 
device to market  
in the USA.
• Full or part time,  
flexible hours
• Training and materials 
provided
• No quotas and excellent 
earning potential
• No experience necessary
• Work with UF MBA, 
Nationwide
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705 to start immediately.
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Four weeks after Hurricane Irma 
wreaked havoc in Florida, UF’s In-
stitute of Food and Agricultural Sci-ences is still recovering.
At the Southwest Florida Re-
search and Education Center in Immokalee, Florida, ﬁ  elds are in a state of limbo, some power is still out and greenhouses are destroyed, 
said Calvin Arnold, the center’s di-
rector.
Grapefruits and oranges blew off 
trees and were left ﬂ  oating in more than 2 feet of water, Arnold said. One employee compared the Im-mokalee center’s ﬁ  elds to a bathtub with ping pong balls ﬂ  oating in it.
Today, however, the center faces 
the opposite problem: It’s too dry.
“It is amazing how you can go 
from a ﬂ  ood condition to a drought 
condition,” Arnold said.
Arnold said restoration since 
Irma has not progressed quickly, 
and there have been no deﬁ  nitive responses about money from UF or the Federal Emergency Manage-ment Agency.
“What we really need is avail-
ability of funds,” he said.
The center is gradually starting 
to restore as it waits for aid, but there is only a crew of fewer than 10 people devoted to clean-up ef-forts, Arnold said. Recovery could go on for at least four months, but likely more.
“We’re in this for the long haul,” 
he said.
Jeanna Mastrodicasa, the asso-
ciate vice president for operations at IFAS, said all but one IFAS site, the West Florida Research and Edu-cation Center in Jay, Florida, had damage. Building damage alone could surpass $2 million and that number does not include impacts to ﬁ  elds.
She said IFAS centers are doing 
their own clean-up while they wait for insurance.
“Every human being who works 
for us and with us,” she said, “we’ve got them doing a whole lot.”
IFAS extension agents across the 
state of Florida are also helping oth-er non-UF facilities with a citrus hot-
line, where farmers direct questions 
about their grove’s recovery efforts.
“I think the real big positive 
takeaway has been the wonderful work that all our faculty and staff across the state are doing,” Mast-rodicasa said.
Jack Payne, the senior vice presi-
dent for agriculture and natural re-
sources at UF, said workers have 
been working weekends and nights to help out.
“It makes me proud to have the 
job that I have,” he said.
He said people lost time due to 
destroyed research, like the 10-year-old citrus groves that were washed away.
Payne said he has had to discuss 
the possibilities of delaying tenure for professors who had their proj-ects damaged.
Despite this, he said life has 
started to get back to normal as IFAS ﬁ  nishes assessing costs of Ir-ma’s impacts.
“It takes money,” Payne said, 
“and you have to ﬁ  nd extra dollars.”
UF IFAS works to recover after Hurricane Irma
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Jolie Nantz misses the laughter the most. Standing in the kitchen with her mother, 
the Do-Lish owner would listen and watch her customers transform into more child-like ver-sions of themselves.
“Everyone turned into a 10-year-old in (Do-
Lish), just happy and giddy,” she said. “You know what I love about our restaurant, our little space? It’s a happy place. When people come here, they’re just so happy.”
Ever since Sept. 5, when Nantz stops to lis-
ten, she hears nothing.
She does hear the cars passing on West 
University Avenue, students chattering as they 
walk by the storefront, but she doesn’t hear 
laughter. 
Two weeks after Nantz opened her shop in 
April, she found out her edible cookie dough shop and bakery was already on the chopping block. Her landlord had sold the building to a large Chicago-based corporation, and she and other business like Kabab House and Wolfgang Gainesville would have to be out by October. 
Nantz had no idea the fate of her small busi-
ness was sealed before it began. 
“(The landlord) was greedy enough to take the rent and not let me know,” she said. 
Do-Lish’s end is not an isolated incident, 
and it’s becoming more common as big busi-
nesses close in on what they see as a ﬂ  our-
ishing college town. As new high-rise housing complexes pop up, more small-business own-ers are closing their doors and saying goodbye to the customers they know by name. 
Nantz cherished the relationships she built 
with her regulars for the six months her shop was open, she said. When she announced Do-Lish was closing, she gave away tables, chairs 
and remaining cookie dough to frequent cus-
tomers. 
Nantz was heartbroken by the abrupt 
ending of the bakery she invested so much time and energy into. What frustrates her the most is knowing it’s likely to happen to other Gainesville small-business owners, she said.
“Corporate is really taking over,” she said. 
“So it is more difﬁ  cult for small businesses to 
be part of the fabric now.”
It’s a feeling echoed by others — owners 
and consumers alike. 
Dave Johnson, 32, was born and raised in 
Gainesville and has watched as the city trades 
its culture for CVS Pharmacies and big apart-ment complexes, he said. 
“If you keep destroying the culture to build apartments, nobody is going to want to live in the apartments because there’s no culture,” he said. 
Johnson worries Gainesville will continue 
gentrifying and lose its charm.
“People are going to have this very generic 
impression of Gainesville, and it’s going to stop being relevant,” he said. 
Johnson said he’s vocal about supporting 
small businesses because he believes local cus-tomers can save them. When the city began discussing a development project that would 
wipe out The Jam, a downtown music venue, 
a swarm of supporters came out of the wood-work, he said. At a City Commission meeting, they lined up, pleading to save the building. 
In June, The Jam was demolished, accord-
ing to Alligator archives, but Johnson said the citizens’ presence still made an impact.
“Nobody really knows that we care so 
much until we show up and speak up and 
make it known that we do,” he said. 
City Commissioner Helen Warren said pre-
serving small business in Gainesville is more 
complicated than it appears. 
The city can’t play favorites when updat-
ing some of its decrepit infrastructure, she said. Warren believes small-business owners should be supported, but the City Commission plays a limited role.
“We can’t show favoritism towards busi-
nesses because they’re local or not,” she said. 
“We’ve got to look at, ‘Are you going to pro-
vide something that’s a service and a beneﬁ  t to the community, and who can do that best?’”
Some buildings in the city being demol-
ished are rundown and unsafe, Warren said. 
“I see some of these structures that are be-
ing identiﬁ  ed to be removed, and I do think that we’ll get something in there that will look better than that,” she said.
Warren said it’s difﬁ  cult to balance honor-
ing Gainesville’s culture and breathing new life into it. 
“We have this fear of letting old things go 
and letting new things come in,” she said.
While the City Commission has a restrict-
ed role when it comes to helping small busi-nesses, Warren said there are a host of places for owners to turn to like CareerSource North 
Central Florida and Santa Fe College’s Business 
Incubation program for support and guidance.
For Nantz, her time as a small-business 
owner ended sooner than she anticipated, and she fears others will suffer a similar demise. She hopes to hear the laughter again one day. 
“It’s frustrating to see people who have a 
dream, and they can never realize it,” she said. 
Gainesville small businesses suﬀ  er as corporate moves in FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
THE DRIVER WAS 
ARRESTED FOR DUI.
By Meryl Kornfield and 
David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writers
A woman was taken to the hos-
pital Wednesday afternoon after 
a Toyota Tundra crashed into the front porch of La Tienda Latina res-taurant.
Samuel Brian Wilson, 59, was 
driving southbound on Southwest 13th Street when he crashed into another car and then into the out-door seating area of the Mexican restaurant and store at about 1:11 p.m., said Gainesville Police spokes-person Officer Ben Tobias. 
The woman was treated for non-
fatal neck and back injuries, accord-ing to an arrest report.
The truck ruptured a portion of 
the porch area and shattered two of the restaurant’s windows. 
Wilson appeared intoxicated 
when speaking with officers and was arrested for DUI, Tobias said. Wilson leaned on an officer while 
being interviewed about the inci-
dent.
Wilson told police he drank one 
beer and takes several medications, according to the report. Responding officers asked Wilson to perform a 
sobriety test but he was unable to 
stay standing for the test without falling.
At GPD headquarters before his breath test, he was unconscious and couldn’t wake up, according to the 
report. An ambulance took Wilson 
to the hospital where he declined to give police a sample of his blood.
An investigating officer subpoe-naed a blood sample taken by the hospital. The DUI investigation is 
ongoing, Tobias said. 
Wilson remains in Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $50,000 
bond.Sussi Romo, a waitress at La 
Tienda, had just finished taking an order at the counter when she heard the crash. She looked up and saw 
a customer dive out of the way of 
an oncoming truck. She said no one was sitting at the main table that was hit in the crash.
“I’ve never witnessed something 
like that,” the 20-year-old Santa Fe College architecture sophomore said. “It was so instant.”
Romo called police and helped 
make sure other customers were safe. For 20 to 30 minutes, the res-taurant stopped taking orders, she said.
Alberto Roman, the restaurant’s 
owner, said he isn’t sure how much the damages to the front of the building will cost. The truck broke the railing, rammed through two 
benches and shattered two panes of 
window glass. Roman replaced the windows hours after the accident.
“We are going to fix it right 
away,” he said. 
The restaurant now has four 
benches left on the patio. Roman said the restaurant has eight to 10 fewer seats now, which could be 
noticeable during the lunch rush.
“If we need the seats, we are go-
ing to be in trouble,” he said.Truck crashes into La Tienda restaurant Wednesday  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Police question Samuel Brian Wilson, 59, next to his pickup truck. His truck crashed through the porch 
railing and damaged two benches and windows of La Tienda Latina restaurant, located at 2204 SW 13th St.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF played an important role in 
the work that led to this year’s Nobel 
Prize in Physics.
Barry Barish, Rainer Weiss and 
Kip Thorne, along with several other 
scientists and researchers, were giv-
en the honor for observing gravita-tional waves and proving Albert Ein-stein’s prediction of their existence. In 2007, Barish received an honorary Doctorate of Science from UF, said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando.
UF assisted the research on gravi-
tational waves in its LIGO lab, said 
Stephen Eikenberry, a UF profes-
sor of astronomy and physics who worked in the lab. UF has been in-volved with the project for nearly 20 years. 
Aside from the California Institute 
of Technology and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which were the founding institutions of LIGO, UF 
played the largest role in the project, 
Eikenberry said. 
“The beginning of the story goes 
back 100 years to Einstein,” Eiken-berry said.
Einstein’s theory of general rela-
tivity challenged Newton’s theory and flipped the scientific communi-ty’s understanding of gravity upside 
down, he said. 
Simon Barke, a UF researcher, 
works mainly with LISA. LISA has 
a similar mission to LIGO, but the main difference is that its members plan to observe gravitational waves in space, not on Earth.
UF’s two major contributions to 
LIGO, Barke said, were its creation of 
the program’s lenses and developing the algorithm used to analyze data.
“Every photon,” Eikenberry said, 
“passes through UF-built optics.”
The algorithm used to detect the 
waves, called Coherent WaveBurst, 
was developed by Sergey Klimenko, a member of LIGO and UF’s physics department, Eikenberry said. 
Of the different algorithms used to 
analyze the data, the one created at UF was the only one which detected the first observed gravitational wave, Barke said.
The data collected by LIGO can 
often be fuzzy and noisy like the sound recording of a movie, Eiken-berry said. Klimenko’s algorithm works to suppress the noise and clar-ify the signal.
Barke said the first gravitational 
wave was discovered so quickly they feared the data may have been tam-
pered with by hackers. The lab ana-
lyzed the information for roughly six months to confirm it.
A gravitational wave, Eikenberry 
said, is not a noise or something vi-sual. It is a ripple in space and time.
The waves observed by LIGO 
were created by the colliding and merging of two black holes that were 
orbiting each other, Eikenberry said. 
Though this was thought to be rare, Eikenberry says all four confirmed gravitational waves that have been observed by LIGO have been created in this way. 
Studying gravitational waves is 
important, Eikenberry said, because it can enhance our understanding of 
the universe.
Eikenberry said the discovery of 
gravitational waves and the stories 
they may tell have opened up a new window in the universe.Nobel Prize in Physics 
winners aided by UF
By Michael Smith
Alligator Staff Writer
Michael Smith has a hard time 
introducing himself.
“It seems like every time I tell 
somebody my name, they think 
I’m lying,” he said. 
Smith, whose middle name is 
Randall, is one of the 10 Michael Smiths at UF, according to the student directory. Michael is the fourth most common first name in the U.S., and Smith is the most common surname, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. 
But the Michael Smiths of UF, 
with their various backgrounds and goals, are more than just a common name. 
Michael Randall Smith, a UF 
business administration junior, was raised as a Gator. His father attended UF for dental school, and Randall Smith inherited his Gator pride. 
“I didn’t know what I wanted to 
do, but I knew I wanted to do it here,” he said.
At first, Randall Smith majored 
in finance but didn’t enjoy it. He was interested in dentistry, like his father, but was afraid he’d end up in his father’s shadow if he fol-lowed in his footsteps. 
But by Spring 2017, Randall 
Smith had switched to business ad-ministration and took a specializa-tion in pre-health.
On Sept. 26, he started his first 
day as a volunteer at the UF Health Shands Hospital Dental Clinic. 
“I was smiling the whole time,” 
he said. It was fitting for a dentist.Michael Joseph Smith has al-
ways had an active mind. 
At UF, the 20-year-old computer 
science junior balances schoolwork with Chi Phi Fraternity, being a Dance Marathon captain and men-toring computer science engineer-ing students for First Time Pro-grammers.
Joseph Smith is anticipating 
his next challenge: object-oriented programming with professor Dave 
Small, who’s notorious for being 
a difficult, but brilliant teacher, he said. 
“I recognize when an oppor-
tunity can allow me to grow as a person and within my field of com-puter science,” he said. 
Michael McVey Smith is looking 
toward the future. 
Raised by Gator parents, it 
wasn’t difficult for McVey Smith to decide to attend UF in 2014. When Florida State University offered him a scholarship, he refused to relin-quish his spot in The Gator Nation.
The 22-year-old UF sport man-
agement senior and member of the Pi Lambda Phi Fraternity aspires to 
use his degree to help kids. McVey 
Smith plans to organize local sports events for children with disabili-ties. 
“I want to help people with 
whatever I do,” he said. “I’m still trying to figure things out, honest-ly. I think all of us are.”
With the rest of senior year 
ahead, McVey Smith is making the moments last. 
“After I graduate, it won’t be 
the same,” he said.
That includes continuing his streak of attending every Gators home football game since his fresh-man year. 
Michael Patrick Smith was 
quick to embrace UF.
Patrick Smith made a point to 
introduce himself to others often. He sat with strangers in dining halls, played intramural sports and joined the University Economics Society. 
He said students’ pride makes 
him comfortable at UF.
“The amount of pride that 
people have being a Gator is one of the coolest things I’ve noticed,” he said. 
None of the four Michael Smiths 
know each other, but they all share Gator pride every football game. 
McVey Smith said his favorite 
game was Sept. 27, 2015 against the University of Tennessee.
“It’s an experience I’ll never for-
get,” he said. 
Joseph Smith remembers UF’s 
victory against the University of Mississippi on Oct. 4, 2015.
“I remember going through the 
tunnel of Ben Hill Griffin (Stadium) 
saying — everyone shouting — 
‘It’s great to be a Florida Gator.’”
Randall Smith said Gator games 
epitomize UF’s spirit.
“The entire stadium loses their 
mind. And then suddenly, you’re hugging somebody who was sitting five rows over,” he said. “That’s what it means to be a Gator.”
Patrick Smith will carry his 
pride in UF long after graduation.
“Once you’re a Gator, you’re al-
ways a Gator, and that never really ends,” he said. One name, one campus: A look 
at the Michael Smiths of UFFRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK song
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Brett Dembrow looks forward to the days 
when he’s craving ginger chicken and can 
just walk downstairs to Bento Cafe.
When the UF business administration ju-
nior moved into The Standard at Gainesville 
in August, he assumed the businesses below 
would be open. Although this wasn’t the case, he’s willing to wait.“It’ll be nice to have it right downstairs,” 
the 20-year-old said.
Along with Bento Cafe, other businesses 
including Miami Grill, Chase Bank, Chick-
ﬁ  l-A and Target Express will open there, 
said Cody Nichelson, a Landmark Properties spokesperson.
The 23,000-square-foot Target Express 
set to open in November will sell products for dorms and apartments and grab-and-go meals, according to its website. It will also include a CVS Pharmacy.Chick-ﬁ  l-A is on schedule to open at the 
end of November, wrote Chick-ﬁ  l-A spokes-person Callie Bowers in an email. The store will hire 80 to 90 employees.
Chase Bank, Miami Grill and Bento Cafe 
could not be reached for comment.
Besides offering food and shopping, these 
businesses should also alleviate some frus-trations The Standard residents have about parking, Dembrow said. The ﬁ  rst four ﬂ  oors of the parking garage are reserved for retail and haven’t been available for use since move-in. Dembrow hopes the garage will be put to better use when the businesses open below.
Although Dembrow would’ve enjoyed 
the restaurants and stores when he initially moved in, he’s not upset by the delay.
“I was just happy that my actual apart-
ment was ﬁ  nished,” he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org Bento Cafe, Miami Grill and others to open below The StandardBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For Dr. Jean Bennett, it all started with a 
voice. 
It was March 1960, during one of her 10 
a.m. Sunday rounds on the seventh ﬂ  oor of UF Health Shands Hospital, three months before 
she would be the ﬁ  rst woman to graduate from 
the UF College of Medicine. 
Walking down the pediatrics wing hallway, 
Bennett heard the voice from inside a patient’s room, she said. It was her favorite professor, Dr. Richard Smith, consoling a mother, father and their ill child.
That’s when Bennett was certain of her 
path as a pediatrician, she said. 
“It was just phenomenal, his ability to sit at 
the bed of a dying patient with leukemia, for example, and make the parents feel OK,” she said. “I stood right there, and I said, ‘Dear God, let me be one ten-millionth as good as he is.” 
Bennett, 81, looks back at her four years in 
medical school fondly. She and the other 39 students were the ﬁ  rst class to graduate from the newly developed UF College of Medicine, 
she said. They bonded over long hours of 
study and Saturday-night cooking sessions. 
She still keeps in contact with them, espe-
cially her friend and former study partner, Dr. James “Jim” Free, who helped develop Gato-rade in 1965. Every time someone from their graduating class passes away, she calls Free. Of the original 40, there are about 18 left, she said. 
“Our class was so close — I don’t know 
a single classmate of mine that’s living that I could not call today and say, ‘Joe, I’m really in a bind I need something,’” she said. “Joe would say, ‘How much you need?’”
In those years at UF, Bennett said she never felt much prejudice. 
Despite being only one of three women in 
the entire class, she feels she and her two fel-low woman graduates, Betty Robinson Drake and Kay Miller Whitacker, were given a fair shot. 
“No one ever gave me anything for being a 
woman, and no one ever took anything from me for being a woman,” she said.  
For the next 43 years in the medical ﬁ  eld, she never worried about being a woman. She 
opened her own practice following graduation 
in a 3-bedroom house in Clearwater, Florida. In 1963, she took up emergency care work at Morton Plant Hospital. 
Since retiring in 2003, the UF Alumni Hall 
of Fame inductee hasn’t skipped a beat. Once or twice a year she gives back to her alma ma-ter and shares her story with new medical stu-dents. Medicine is an art, not a science, she tells 
them.
“It’s an art that is enabled with science,” 
she said. “Listen to the patient long enough, they’ll give you the diagnosis.” 
It was December when Jane Harrell got the 
call. 
The College of Medicine faculty decided 
23-year-old Harrell, who just completed her ﬁ  rst semester as a UF medical student, should receive the four-year Jean Lester Bennett Scholarship.
Bennett told the faculty she wanted the 
money to go to a compassionate student in ﬁ  -nancial need, Harrell wrote in an email. 
“I hope that I can exemplify her strength 
and caring nature as a physician someday,” wrote the Belleview, Massachusetts, native.
Harrell ﬁ  rst felt called to medicine in Sum-
mer 2013 as a rising UF applied physiology and kinesiology sophomore. For three months, 
Harrell was a counselor at Camp Boggy Creek, 
a camp in Lake County, Florida, for children with serious medical illnesses. Bonding with those kids led her to medical school, she said. 
Bennett and Harrell met for lunch after Har-
rell won the scholarship, and the two still write each other once a month, touching on shared medical school experiences across generations. 
“It was love at ﬁ  rst sight,” Bennett said of 
meeting Harrell. 
Bennett sees their relationship as passing 
the same torch Dr. Smith gave to her 57 years ago in the seventh-ﬂ  oor Shands patient room. Her advice to Harrell and other aspiring pedia-tricians is simple, she said: Listen to your pa-tients, listen to yourself.
“I tell them (to) follow where their heart 
leads them,” she said. “Hopefully somewhere 
along the way, someone will inspire them the 
same way Dr. Smith inspired me.”UF’s ﬁ  rst woman medical school graduate looks back
Courtesy to the Alligator
The ﬁ  rst woman graduate of the UF College of Medicine, 81-year-old Dr. Jean Bennett, 
and Jane Harrell, a 23-year-old UF medical student, pose at a scholarship award ceremony in February. Harrell was awarded a yearly $5,000 scholarship named after Bennett.
18   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
CYNTHIA
Peace CorpsVolunteer,NicaraguaWe teach in classrooms,
help entrepreneurs take theirbusinesses online, build appsto share healthcare information,and more. If you are inspiredby impact that is hands-on,grassroots-driven and lasting,Learn more atpeacecorps.gov/volunteer.
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we believe in 
providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous 
compensation, and our District Manager position epitomizes this philosophy.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80K
Year 2 - $90K 
Year 3 - $95K 
Year 4 - $100K Year 5 - $110KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer 
 
Advancement
@zero_degrees_gainesville
3033 SW 34th St, Gainesville, FL 3260815% off 
not valid with 
any other offers, 
expires 
Oct. 15, 2017“New ice cream store in town”
352.792.6339
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
After almost suffering a stroke and heart 
failure in May, 48-year-old John Howard 
has revived a passion for his job at UF.
“I just took this job because I got tired of 
staying home doing nothing, so I said, ‘The 
ﬁ  rst job that comes along, I’m going to take 
it,’” Howard said.
Howard has been working at the Hub’s 
Chick-ﬁ  l-A since Aug. 22. He is in charge of keeping the compactor and bailer area clean. He picks up trash from the dining room and the prep area of the kitchen, he mops, and he reﬁ  lls the condiments.
Thousands of UF employees like How-
ard make the university run smoothly. They cook student’s food, drive them to class and clean buildings. Although students may not even know their names, they’re a constant positive force throughout campus.
“Every day is my best day because I al-
ways have a good attitude towards people,” Howard said. “I keep a positive attitude, and I just love the work I do at Chick-ﬁ  l-A. 
Every day goes smooth for me because I’m 
happy all the time. I don’t have anything to bring me down too much.”
Eventually, he would like to move up and work full-time at the restaurant. His dream is to own his own cleaning business one day and become more independent.
“I’m just so dedicated to my work,” 
Howard said.
Suzy Knight and Pam Summers, two UF 
employees, sparked a friendship last Sep-tember while on a lunch break.
Summers, who cleans for Gator Dining, 
approached Knight, a line cook and cleri-cal worker at Arredondo Café, to sit and eat lunch with her.
The two hit it off and have been friends 
ever since.
“When I ﬁ  rst started out, I didn’t know 
her, and she asked me to each lunch with her and we’ve been close ever since,” Knight, 46, said. “We don’t argue, we don’t ﬁ  ght, we get along real good.”
Although their conﬂ  icting schedules 
don’t allow for them to eat lunch together 
anymore, Knight and Summers see each 
other every morning before they begin their shifts. They catch up over a cup of coffee, and when Summers is feeling down, Knight is always sure to give her some advice.
“Some days she might come here upset 
about something or whatever,” Knight said. “I kind of lift her up a little bit, and she likes that.”On days when they don’t see each other, 
Knight makes sure to give Summers a call at home to check in on her. They also go out 
to dinner, go shopping and grab candies at 
Russell Stover Candies on weekends. Last week, they went out to eat at Golden Corral and went shopping at Walmart.
“We buy candy, all different kinds in the 
box,” Summers, 62, said. “She’s a good per-son. We have a good friendship.”
Tuesday through Friday from 6:19 a.m. 
to 4:22 p.m., Dontae Brown drives route 12 
from the Reitz Union to Butler Plaza on the 
Regional Transit System bus.
Brown, 26, has been working with RTS 
for ﬁ  ve years, and he said loves his experi-ences, especially with students.
“Every time I pick up students, it’s al-
ways a good experience because they’re always greeting you ‘good morning’ and ‘good afternoon’ and ‘thank you’ every time 
they get off the bus,” Brown said. “It’s been 
a good experience. I’m a people person, so dealing with different types of people, that comes in a great big aspect of the job.”
Being a bus driver for RTS has been more 
laid back than his previous jobs at Walmart and Enterprise Rent-A-Car. It’s the students who keep him energized while he’s driving. He said he especially enjoys working during the football games.
“It’s always a pretty good experience 
dealing with all different types that come 
from out-of-state,” Brown said. “Actually, 
for the Tennessee game, a Tennessee fan got off the bus and said that that was one of the smoothest rides he’d ever had when I took him back to The Oaks Mall.”
Although Brown doesn’t feel like he’s 
made any particularly close connections with students, he said there are always ran-dom students who sit in the front and en-
gage in conversation with him throughout 
the day.
“I have different ones that come on and 
most of them will sit up front and talk to me and ask me how my day is going and how many hours I work,” Brown said.
Sometimes, being an RTS driver can 
have its ups and its downs, Brown said. In the summer months, it can also get lonely 
with fewer students to talk to.
“Sometimes you’ll have your aggravated 
moments, and sometimes someone will 
come in and cheer you up so you have your mixed emotions throughout the day, but overall, I always have a good day,” Brown said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
Behind the scenes: The workers who make the UF campus runBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Lake Property Foreclosure Resale $29,900Before foreclosure sold for $112,900.Award winning gated community.Being sold off Oct. 21st!Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com1-844-826-9565Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC.Licensed Real Estate Broker      10-6-1-5
Stunning NC Mtn ViewsNew log cabin on nearly 2 ac. featuresvault. ceilings, fireplace, hdwd floors,lg. screened porch, ½ basement,Only $194,900 (828) 286-2981     10-6-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      10-6-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
2 - 2015 Kymco Like 200i motor scootersBoth in showroom condition. 500+/- miles. Electric start, smooth-shifting CVT automati Trans, 200 CCSOHC 4-stroke engine w/ EFI, front/rear disc brakes, 85-90 mpg., storage, windshield, new helmets included. Navy/black, Ivorybrown. $1500 each. Cash only. No delivery. Pick up in Sarasota. For more info call  941-809-3444    10-6-17-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1990 300 CE Mercedes Benz coupe.
Photos available. Call for price. 386-3772    10-16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring Foreman, Stone Masons & Tenders. Foreman must have 5-8 yrs exp. w/ all phases of masonry, be computer literate, physically capable to do job and have proven track record w/ references. Stone masons must have 5 yrs. exp. & tenders must have 2 yrs. exp. Contact Shelley between 8:00am-5:00pm. @ 352-636-1431  DFWP.   10-13-17-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       10-18-17-6-14
Construction Laborers Needed!!Temp. Agency. Daily PayCall 352-505-0503 www.allfloridapersonnel.com       10-9-17-2-14.
Assistant to job foreman needed for masonry company. Duties incl.paperwork, operate mobile scaffold & general clean up. Bi-lingual a plus. DFWP. Call Shelley at 352-636-1431.    10-13-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15
PROFESSIONAL NANNY looking for FT po-sition. Over 20 yrs exp w / newborns & tod-dlers. Excellent references & a reliable car. rosaradford56@gmail.com    10-6-17-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      10-6-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
REALISTICALLY-$500-$1000 or More Returning Phone Calls!!! No Explaining, No Selling, NOT MLM. Call: 1-888-267-1889     10-6-4-20
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 PersonalsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   21 
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day. Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Best-selling book
generally not on
best-seller lists
6 Benchmark:
Abbr.
9 Early automaker
13 Won’t go near15 Back again16 Heist haul17 Magoo’s malady18 Ended up off the
mark
20 Agricultural
college facility?
22 Polling abbr.25 Arrive at hastily,
as a conclusion
26 Sundial marking27 Content of little
substance
30 Madrid-to-Paris
dir.
31 Rose in a field32 One who got in
before a crash?
36 Achilles __37 Take turns40 Lancelot
bragging abouthis exploits?
44 “The BFG” author46 Intelligence org.47 Dutch genre
painter
48 Juillet’s season49 KFC option52 Red __53 What theater
districts offer?
57 Financial workers58 Like merciless
opponents
62 Gospel travelers63 Get64 Not nice at all65 Urgent request66 Decline, with
“out”
67 They traditionally
appear in red ...and in anotherform in 20-, 32-,40- and 53-Across
DOWN
1 Loud sound2 Columbia, e.g.3 “That’s lousy!”4 Enlarged Revlon
ad image
5 Reduce a
sentence, say
6 MLBer at AT&T
Park
7 Highway pursuer
8 Bakery item with
some shortening?
9 “Frozen”
snowman
10 What most
pitchers have, as
batters
11 “Little” Dickens
title character
12 Obstruct
14 Author Bellow
19 What that is in
Spain
21 Scout groups
22 [It just vanished!]
23 Answer guide?
24 Get on with one’s
life
28 Revolutionary
first name
29 Child subject31 It’s not big in
France
33 Verse lead-in34 Prize for Indy35 Oxford figures
38 Fare-well link39 Italian peak41 Like the simplest
process
42 Toyota’s Ky.
plant, e.g.
43 Old-school
diplomaticaccessory
44 Pack up the tents
and supplies45 Like some Alban
Berg works
49 Tiny Tim, for one50 Rene of “Thor”51 Vegan staple54 Hipbones55 Direct (one’s
way)
56 Ginza quaff59 Barbecue morsel60 Sinus doc61 Driller’s deg.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/06/1710/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Seize
6 Just slightly
10 Lip-__
14 Justice
nominated by
Barack
15 Buddy, in slang
16 Secure with 
lines
17 Cut most likely to
win a BBQ
competition?
19 TT automaker
20 Part of
21 Feminine side22 Keyboard
shortcuts
24 TV scientist with
19 Emmys
25 Keurig coffee for
the big day?
27 Tear drier
29 Richmond-to-
D.C. direction
30 Hunk’s pride
31 Finishes second34 Deli order35 Rental to get the
twins to college?
38 Word before or
after pack
39 Nearly
40 Asian New Year41 Harmless cyst43 They’re tossed
up before they’remade
47 Sports
competitions inanti-gravity?
51 Uganda’s Amin
52 Ciudad Juárez
neighbor
53 It’s crude, then
refined
54 Bit of cabinet
hardware
55 Money box
56 Ring up a short
story writer?
59 Bering Sea
barker
60 Impromptu
modern group
pic
61 King Triton’s
mermaiddaughter
62 Poet __ St.
Vincent Millay
63 Boys, to men
64 Commencement
celebrantsDOWN
1 Org. that makes
cents
2 Woody’s wife
3 Repeals4 It meant nothing
to Edith Piaf
5 Buddy6 Chicago 7 first
name
7 Rodeo bucker8 Writer/illustrator
Falconer knownfor “Olivia”
children’s books
9 Stan “__” Musial
10 Big wet one
11 “I’m not making
that decision”
12 “For sure!”13 Baked fruit
desserts
18 Rare blood
designation
23 Dogfish Head
brew
25 “Star Trek” role
for Takei and Cho
26 “To recap ... ”28 Pick out of a
crowd
32 Bell tower sound33 Long fish34 Secretary of
Agriculture under
Nixon35 Smartphone
arrangement
36 “Knock on 
wood”
37 Craigslist caveat
38 Wrote back
40 Fly around the
equator?
41 Actor Bentley
42 It included a
sweet, not
sorrowful, parting44 Sunflower
relative
45 Doted on46 Delphic diviners48 Lily plant49 “Not __!”
50 Cock and bull
54 Broadway’s
Walter __ Theatre
57 Classified ad
shorthand for“seeking”
58 Folklore crone
By Ed Sessa
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/05/1710/05/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 5, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  ____ lettuce 
1.  Coat of arms5.  Penniless 
2.  Entrance attendant 6.  Large house
3.  ____ War7.  Tooth coating 
4.  ____ rollVIEEDN
BMMELEKRBEO
RAMON
MDONAOR
MIEVNATLEENMA
ABELRRANSWERS: 1A-Endive  5A-Broke  6A-Manor  7A-Enamel
1D-Emblem  2D-Doorman  3D-Vietnam  4D-Barrel  B-Rob Reiner10-6-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ received a star on the Hollywood 
Walk of Fame right next to his father's star.
BONUS
To The Girl With The Beautiful Blue Eyes 
and Little Blue Eyes, Another Homecoming is upon us.  A time for reminiscing and a time for renewal.  A time to look back at the past and a time to look towards the future. The past was great and full of wonderful memories.  It’s ridiculous to think that it’s been 37 years since our first Homecoming together.  Growl is not the same, but my love for you will never change. Little Blue Eyes is making her way and making us proud.  She is the light and love of our lives.  Hard to believe that she, too, is an alumnus. We were so fortunate with Hurricane Irma.  I am so fortunate to have both of you in my life. ILY,Liarface
RIP Tom PettyTo My Lovely Wife, Mary J.:
Happy Homecoming 2017!No more Monkey or Burrito Bros.But here’s to new memories atSwamp, Social, Paisano’s & more!Let the Gator Growl!  Beat LSU!Love you, John J. (Cocoa Beach)
■  ■  ■
Homecoming
Messages
Fall 201721 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators swim teams crack preseason rankings
Both Florida's men's and women's swimming and diving teams were ranked 
in the ﬁ  rst preseason poll of fall. The men's team enters the season ranked No. 4, while the women's team is ranked No. 18. Gators soccer coach Becky 
Burleigh helped Florida's  program earn its 400th win Thursday against Missouri. Read the story, pg. 23.From the moment he arrived in Gainesville one year ago, 
Mark Thompson hasn’t shied away from speaking his 
mind.
It’s who he is. It’s what he does.The 6-foot-2 running back from La Mott, Pennsyl-
vania, came to Florida last season as a junior college transfer with no experience playing Division 1 football, much less in the SEC.
But as he met with reporters on a hot summer 
day in August 2016, he didn’t hold back from mak-ing a bold statement.
“It’s my goal to have 1,000 yards by the bye week,” 
Thompson said one month prior to UF’s season opener. “There is no way in the world I would joke about some-thing like that.”
As he soon found out, however, it wasn’t that easy. 
Not even close.
Thompson struggled mightily in his ﬁ  rst year as a Gator, to-
taling only 299 yards, two touchdowns and two fumbles. After notching a season-high 85 yards against North Texas on Sept. 17, 2016, he’d only run for 20-plus yards one more time over Florida’s 
ﬁ  nal 10 games.
It was a forgettable debut campaign for the 239-pound back.
Now, as a redshirt senior, Thompson is still trying to prove he’s capable 
of generating the numbers he claimed he could. And it’s started with the help of running backs coach Ja’Juan Seider.
“I told him, ‘Look, I don’t judge you on what you did last year,’” Seider said. 
“We worked on what I felt like we needed to work on.”
Thompson hasn’t received as many opportunities as underclassmen Malik 
Davis and Lamical Perine have through UF’s ﬁ  rst four games of 2017, but he 
has managed to record 81 rushing yards on 24 carries, as well as 53 receiving 
yards on seven catches.
It's a small sample size, but his production in limited reps hasn't gone unnoticed 
by his teammates.
“Mark is a work horse. He’s a very big dude and he runs with a 
lot of power,” receiver Freddie Swain said. “He’s a good back.”
From the moment he arrived in Gainesville one year ago, 
Mark Thompson hasn’t shied away from speaking his 
The 6-foot-2 running back from La Mott, Pennsyl-
vania, came to Florida last season as a junior college 
transfer with no experience playing Division 1 football, 
“It’s my goal to have 1,000 yards by the bye week,” 
Thompson said one month prior to UF’s season opener. 
“There is no way in the world I would joke about some-
As he soon found out, however, it wasn’t that easy. 
Thompson struggled mightily in his ﬁ  rst year as a Gator, to-
taling only 299 yards, two touchdowns and two fumbles. After 
notching a season-high 85 yards against North Texas on Sept. 17, 
2016, he’d only run for 20-plus yards one more time over Florida’s 
It was a forgettable debut campaign for the 239-pound back.
Now, as a redshirt senior, Thompson is still trying to prove he’s capable 
of generating the numbers he claimed he could. And it’s started with the 
“I told him, ‘Look, I don’t judge you on what you did last year,’” Seider said. 
“We worked on what I felt like we needed to work on.”
Thompson hasn’t received as many opportunities as underclassmen Malik 
Davis and Lamical Perine have through UF’s ﬁ  rst four games of 2017, but he 
has managed to record 81 rushing yards on 24 carries, as well as 53 receiving 
It's a small sample size, but his production in limited reps hasn't gone unnoticed 
“Mark is a work horse. He’s a very big dude and he runs with a 
lot of power,” receiver Freddie Swain said. “He’s a good back.”
At the end of a 72-yard run, Malik Davis saw the scoreboard, the 
fans, the end zone in front of him and to his right. But he didn’t see 
the Tennessee defender on his left, who stripped 
the ball from Davis, forcing a fumble feet from 
the goal line.  
“It was heartbreaking,” Malik’s mother, 
Angel Davis, said. “I literally wanted to 
cry.”
After the game, his family waited for him 
outside the locker room. And they kept 
waiting. UF receiver Daquon Green, also from the Tampa area, told Davis’ 
family that Davis didn’t want to talk 
to anyone.
Eventually, Malik appeared. And one 
week later, he emerged again, this time as 
UF’s main back in a win against Kentucky. He 
rushed for 93 yards on 21 carries, enough touches to make it clear that the coaches weren’t going to hold his fumble against him. Against Vanderbilt, he was given the bulk of the carries again, rushing for 124 yards 
and two touchdowns.
“He’s about as natural as you will see running with 
the ball,” running backs coach Ja’Juan Seider said. “He’s 
not even scratching the surface yet on how good he can be.”
Davis is only four games into his career at UF and is already showing why he turned heads 
in high school. At Tampa’s Jesuit High School, he set the county rushing record and averaged 8.5 yards per carry. He’s still averaging more than seven yards per carry at UF, and he’s one of only two SEC running backs with at least 40 carries to do so.
The Gators running back Lamical Perine, has seen Davis’ talent since he stepped on campus. 
And now, he says it’s time for everyone to see.
“The nation should know about Malik Davis,” Perine said.Lamical Perine lost his starting job before he really had it. 
Coming into the season, the sophomore running back was primed to be Florida’s go-
to guy in the backﬁ  eld after the news that Jordan Scarlett was indeﬁ  nitely suspended. 
But Perine ﬂ  opped in Florida’s season opener against Michigan, running for just eight 
yards on seven carries. Two games later against Kentucky, Perine was given just ﬁ  ve carries to freshman Malik Davis’ 
21. 
So UF running backs coach Ja’Juan Se-
ider had a heart-to-heart with him after the 
game. 
“I think a lot of guys are still feeling 
like ‘Hey, I have to show I can be the guy 
that can replace Jordan Scarlett,’” Seider 
said, “instead of just letting the game 
come to them.”
And by the time the Gators played 
Vanderbilt the next week, Perine didn’t look annoyed. Instead, he 
ran angry. On three separate plays, 
Vanderbilt defenders hit him. On all 
three plays, he scored anyway. After 
having not scored a touchdown since 
September 2016, the sophomore running 
back found the end zone three times in UF’s win 
against the Commodores last week. 
“It felt real good,” Perine said.
Head coach Jim McElwain took notice. 
“He elevated his play,” McElwain said. “Really 
showed what kind of runner I’ve been preaching 
this guy is.”
Perine became the ﬁ  rst Gator to score three rushing 
touchdowns in a game since Jeff Driskel in 2012. 
“When you start feeling the momentum, you have to keep 
going,” Perine said. 
He’ll look to carry that momentum into The Swamp on Sat-
urday against a Tigers defense that gave up about ﬁ  ve yards per 
carry to Perine in last year’s meeting.
“I think he got back to being the Lamical we expect him to be,” Seider said. “He was 
more engaged. He was more demanding. … He responded.”
Coming into the season, the sophomore running back was primed to be Florida’s go-
to guy in the backﬁ  eld after the news that Jordan Scarlett was indeﬁ  nitely suspended. 
But Perine ﬂ  opped in Florida’s season opener against Michigan, running for just eight 
yards on seven carries. Two games later against Kentucky, 
Perine was given just ﬁ  ve carries to freshman Malik Davis’ 
21. 
So UF running backs coach Ja’Juan Se-
ider had a heart-to-heart with him after the 
game. 
“I think a lot of guys are still feeling 
like ‘Hey, I have to show I can be the guy 
that can replace Jordan Scarlett,’” Seider 
said, “instead of just letting the game 
come to them.”
And by the time the Gators played 
Vanderbilt the next week, Perine 
didn’t look annoyed. Instead, he 
ran angry. On three separate plays, 
Vanderbilt defenders hit him. On all 
three plays, he scored anyway. After 
having not scored a touchdown since 
September 2016, the sophomore running 
back found the end zone three times in UF’s win 
against the Commodores last week. 
“It felt real good,” Perine said.
Head coach Jim McElwain took notice. 
“He elevated his play,” McElwain said. “Really 
showed what kind of runner I’ve been preaching 
this guy is.”
Perine became the ﬁ  rst Gator to score three rushing 
touchdowns in a game since Jeff Driskel in 2012. 
“When you start feeling the momentum, you have to keep 
going,” Perine said. 
He’ll look to carry that momentum into The Swamp on Sat-
urday against a Tigers defense that gave up about ﬁ  ve yards per 
fans, the end zone in front of him and to his right. But 
 he didn’t see 
the Tennessee defender on his left, who stripped 
the ball from Davis, forcing a fumble feet from 
“It was heartbreaking,” Malik’s mother, 
Angel Davis, said. “I literally wanted to 
After the game, his family waited for him 
outside the locker room. And they kept 
waiting. UF receiver Daquon Green, 
also from the Tampa area, told Davis’ 
family that Davis didn’t want to talk 
Eventually, Malik appeared. And one 
week later, he emerged again, this time as 
UF’s main back in a win against Kentucky. He 
rushed for 93 yards on 21 carries, enough touches 
to make it clear that the coaches weren’t going to 
hold his fumble against him. Against Vanderbilt, he 
was given the bulk of the carries again, rushing for 124 yards 
and two touchdowns.
“He’s about as natural as you will see running with 
Staff Report
For the past two years, Florida has 
ﬁ  nished near the bottom of the SEC in running the football. But through 
the ﬁ  rst month of the 2017 season, the 
Gators are starting to ﬁ  nd success on the ground. UF is rushing the ball for 191 yards per game against conference 
opponents, up 65 yards from the year 
before. 
Who’s responsible for that produc-
tion? More than 90 percent of UF’s rush-ing yards this season have come from 
four players: Malik Davis, Lamical 
Perine, Mark Thompson and Kadarius Toney. The Gators coaching staff has so many talented runners that it feels con-
ﬁ  dent giving the ball to whomever has 
momentum.
“If a guy gets hot he’s going to stay 
in,” ﬁ  rst-year running backs coach Ja’Juan Seider said this week. “We can just roll those guys out without hesitat-
ing.”
On Saturday at 3:30 p.m., Florida’s 
backs will line up against one of the 
better run defenses in the SEC, an LSU Tigers team that’s coming into The 
Swamp reeling from a Homecoming loss 
of its own.
“These guys will be coming in here 
crazed, nuts, ready to go to prove all the 
naysayers (wrong),” UF head coach Jim 
McElwain said.
Florida's is just six days removed 
from its best rushing game of the sea-son, running for a combined 218 yards 
and ﬁ  ve touchdowns in a 38-24 win 
against Vanderbilt last weekend. 
The Gators are looking to four play-
makers to recreate that production on 
Saturday in a high-stakes Homecoming 
matchup.
Now, the Alligator re-introduces you 
to the runners to watch this weekend: RUNNING UP THE SCORE
Lamical 
Perine #22Malik 
Davis 
# 20
Mark 
Thompson 
#24
ability by burying him on the quarterback depth chart, UF’s coaches 
moved him to a new position — athlete — in summer. 
The name is ﬁ  tting, because Toney really isn’t a quarterback, re-
ceiver or, despite being featured in this story, a running back. He’s something else. And he’s the only one. 
Nobody else on UF’s roster is called “athlete.” Because nobody 
else has thrown for 50 yards, rushed for 66 and amassed 107 more through the air this season. 
That gift for making plays across the ﬁ  eld was apparent to his 
pastor, Benjamin Torrance Sr., since before Toney moved to Florida. He said even in an area that produces elite athletes, Toney was a standout, and not just because of his ability to make defenders miss. Torrance said he’s also very smart compared to other players his age. 
“I would be proud if he was my son,” Torrance said. He’s also quiet. Torrance, pastor of God’s Kingdom Church Min-
istries who’s known Toney for 10 years, said his ﬂ  ashy play masks a quiet personality. With that in mind, leave it to teammate CeCe Jef-SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE  24FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   23 
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Mayra Pelayo and Gabby Seiler 
embraced in exhilaration.
Pelayo probably didn’t expect to 
score 20 yards from goal, just be-
yond the right side of Missouri’s 
box. Tigers goalkeeper Kristen Rivers 
probably didn’t expect the ball to be chipped from such a distance.
But No. 9 Florida was expected 
to win Thursday night at James G. Pressly Stadium, defeating Missouri 2-1 and capturing its 400th win as a program since starting under coach Becky Burleigh in 1995.  
UF’s offense came out determined 
to get the milestone victory for its coach. 
Shots from defender Cassie Ow-
ens and forward Deanne Rose came inside the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve minutes of play, but the Gators (10-2, 4-1 SEC) waited until the 13th minute to open the scoring.
Seiler received a pass on the left 
ﬂ  ank from junior midﬁ  elder Briana Solis. After beating a Missouri de-fender, Seiler slipped a pass to Parker Roberts at the top of the six-yard box, giving the redshirt sophomore a tap-in goal.
Just 26 seconds later, Pelayo net-
ted her goal, which came on assisting 
passes from Seiler and Rose.
“We have really been trying to 
work on coming out strong,” Seiler 
said. “So I think we wanted to put the pressure on them, and I think we had a good ﬁ  rst half where we were 
in control.”
The two assists from Seiler gives 
her ﬁ  ve on the season, as she leads 
all Gators with 15 points.
By the half’s end, Florida accu-
mulated 13 total shots, putting six on goal and two in the back of the net.
Defensively, UF held Missouri (5-
8-1, 1-4 SEC) to one ﬁ  rst-half shot, 
which was dealt with easily by goal-
keeper Kaylan Marckese in the 24th minute.
The Gators started the second half 
with similar attacking fervor.
In the 48th minute, Rose won a 
penalty kick.
With a chance to put the game out 
of reach, Seiler stepped to the spot. The captain was perfect on penalty kicks up to this point in the season, but had her shot blocked by Rivers.
Shortly thereafter, Tiger coach Bryan Blitz drew a yellow card from the sideline.
Blitz’s penalty jolted Missouri, 
which began to heavily press Florida.
The Tigers earned a free kick just 
25 yards from goal in the 57th min-ute. Madison Lewis struck the ball with pace over the UF wall, giving Marckese no chance at a save and narrowing the lead to one.
Missouri found chances in the 
60th and 62nd minutes, but quality goalkeeping from Marckese kept the Tigers from leveling the score.
With an in-form goalkeeper be-
hind it, the Florida defense kept Mis-souri from ﬁ  nding any more opportu-nities and held the Tigers shotless for the remainder of the match.
The staunch defending guided the Gators to victory, which came under special circumstances aside from the 400 milestone.
The Gators dressed in pink uni-
forms for the annual “Kicking for the Cure” match in support of breast can-
cer awareness, a disease that has af-
fected coach Becky Burleigh and her team personally.
“This has always been a cause 
that’s been dear to my heart,” Bur-leigh said. “My mom had breast 
cancer. So it was really meaningful 
for me. And it’s just nice to play for something bigger than yourself some-times.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators top Mizzou for 400th win
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Coming off their only home meet 
of the season, the Gators men’s and 
women’s cross country teams will take to Apalachee Regional Park to-
day for the Florida State Invitational. 
“We’ve been doing a pretty good 
job in practice, (they’ve been) a little 
closer together and I think that’ll show come race day,” assistant coach Chris Solinsky said. “I think we’ve made some really good steps in training (and) I’m looking forward to seeing what that produces in a 
race environment (where) you shoot a gun and get a little more adrenaline 
on the line than just working out.”
Both teams have almost two 
weeks of training behind them as well as top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes overall from 
their last meet at the Mountain Dew 
Invitational. The women’s team was able to take ﬁ  rst for the fourth con-secutive year, while the men’s team ﬁ  nished in third. Three runners from each team placed in the top 25. 
“I think we can expect some 
tighter packs” Solinsky said. “On the men’s side we’ve put together some 
good packs but I think we can get (a) 
little further up in the overall race, and on the women’s side I think we can get tighter packs. (I’m) looking to see some improvements down the line on both the men’s and women’s side.”
Redshirt junior Lauren Perry was 
one of two Florida runners to ﬁ  n-
ish in the top 10 in the women’s 5K 
at the Mountain Dew Invitational. As she heads into her last run of the regular season with the Gators, Perry can ﬁ  nd a certain drive from performing at a rival course.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely nice to not have to 
travel halfway across the country for a meet, it’s just a quick trip,” Perry 
said. “And then also the fact that it 
is FSU, some of our girls are very fa-miliar with the course, having raced there during high school or even re-gionals last year. I’ve never raced the course but there is deﬁ  nitely a mo-tivation factor given that it is FSU.”
The Gators home meet on Sept. 
23 marked the ﬁ  rst 8K of the season 
for the men’s team. It also was the 
ﬁ  rst 8K ever for redshirt freshman Blake Lowery, who led UF to third place with the fastest time on the team.
“We’re not traveling far to this 
meet so it’s really just a business trip, a check up to see where we are and making sure we’re going in the 
right direction come post-season,” 
Lowery said.  
The men’s 8K this morning will 
begin at 7:40 a.m. and the women’s 5K at 8:20 a.m. This will be the Gators last meet of the regular sea-son before the SEC Championships on Oct. 27. 
“Inherently, being a Gator you 
wanna take down the Seminoles, and for us that doesn’t change this season,” Solinsky said. “I think we just wanna keep building the mo-mentum, we’ve taken some really good steps forward since Mountain Dew and I’m really looking forward to seeing that on display Friday.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org
Cross country teams head to FSU for season’s third meetGrowing up, my 
parents instilled the 
idea in me that ev-
eryone should be 
treated equally, re-gardless of race, eth-nicity, orientation, 
etc. That especially 
includes gender, and there’s a reason I chose to single that out.
Cam Newton’s remarks can-
not go unpunished. Period.
For those who don’t know 
what I’m talking about, in a 
news conference on Wednes-
day, Jourdan Rodrigue, a re-porter for the Charlotte Observ-er, asked the Carolina Panthers quarterback a question about 
one of his receivers.
“Devin Funchess has seemed 
to really embrace the physicality 
of his routes and getting those 
extra yards,” she said. “Does 
that give you a little bit of en-joyment to see him kind of truck sticking people out there?”
His response?
“It’s funny to hear a female 
talk about routes. It’s funny,” 
Newton said with a smirk.
Rodrigue handled the situ-
ation like a professional and didn’t respond to the remark, instead approaching Newton after the press conference. After he didn’t apologize, Rodrigue 
later took to Twitter to voice her 
opinion on the matter.
“I don’t think it’s ‘funny’ 
to be a female and talk about 
routes. I think it’s my job.”
That’s why this is such a big 
deal. More and more, women 
are becoming prominent ﬁ  gures in the sports journalism world, 
and should be treated as valued 
members of any staff, just like any man. It’s their job to ask those questions. 
But Newton’s comments 
show an even bigger issue in sports media. Female reporters haven’t reached the same 
level of respect from 
athletes as male re-porters do. The sad part is, this isn’t any-
thing new. 
Ines Sainz was 
harassed by New 
York Jets players in 
2010, which included catcalls 
and throwing balls in her direc-
tion during practice. 
In 2008, Brett Favre allegedly 
harassed Jenn Sterger through 
emails, voice mails and obscene 
photos.
Newton’s case is a little dif-
ferent; he didn’t say those com-ments for the same reasons as 
the others. He said them be-
cause he legitimately thinks it’s funny to hear a woman, some-one who couldn’t possibly un-
derstand the sport like a football 
player does, talk about routes and his receivers like a true re-porter.
What’s even worse is he 
didn’t apologize after the press conference was over. He didn’t express his regret until it was too late.
Thankfully this didn’t go un-
noticed. Dannon, the makers of Oikos yogurt, said it would stop using Newton in advertisements going forward. But to me, this 
isn’t enough.
If the NFL wants to make a 
statement that this isn’t accept-
able, Cam Newton needs to be 
issued a ﬁ  ne. Maybe he should 
even sit on the bench for a game. 
The point is, what Newton 
did should not be tolerated, 
and it’s time that athletes treat 
female reporters the same way they treat male reporters. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgCam Newton’s comments 
should not go unpunishedJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators midﬁ  elder Mayra Pelayo scored Florida’s second goal 
against Missouri on Thursday, helping UF secure a 2-1 win at home.24   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
He drops back in the pocket. 
Looking downfield, he sees no one and 
steps up. He looks some more, cocks his 
arm and lowers it. Still nothing. 
He darts right and finds two defenders wait-
ing. He stops his progress and steps back, leav-
ing them lying on the turf before cutting to-
ward the sideline. 
This is Kadarius Toney, UF’s star fresh-
man who played quarterback at Blount 
High School near Mobile, Alabama. He 
played quarterback in UF’s spring 
game, too, dashing his way to a 
game-best 74 yards and establishing 
himself as a potential playmaker.
Not wanting to lose that abili-
ty by burying him on the quar-
terback depth chart, UF’s coaches moved him to a new position — athlete 
— in the summer. 
The name is fitting, because Toney really isn’t 
a quarterback, receiver or, despite being featured in this story, a running back. He’s something 
else. And he’s the only one. 
Nobody else on UF’s roster is called “athlete.” 
Because nobody else has thrown for 50 yards, 
rushed for 66 and amassed 107 more through the 
air this season. 
That gift for making plays across the field was 
apparent to his pastor, Benjamin Torrance Sr., 
since before Toney moved to Florida.
He said even in an area that produces elite 
athletes, Toney was a standout, and not just be-
cause of his ability to make defenders miss.
Torrance said he’s also very smart compared 
to other players his age. 
“I would be proud if he was my son,” Tor-
rance said. 
He’s also quiet. Torrance, pastor of God’s Kingdom Church Ministries, who’s known Toney 
for 10 years, said his flashy play masks a quiet 
personality. With that in mind, leave it to team-
mate CeCe Jefferson to explain Toney’s abilities. 
“That boy got a create-a-player name,” he 
said, referencing the feature in sports video games where players are created and given top 
attributes.
Even though he’s not a running back, Toney 
was included on this list because he’s rushed for 
the fourth-most yards on the team and scored a 
rushing touchdown.
That’s thanks to special packages designed for 
Toney, where he takes a direct snap and uses the 
same skills that made him potent in high school. 
“There’s something that’s pretty cool,” coach 
Jim McElwain said, “about having a human joy-
stick out there.”
24
  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2017
He drops back in the pocket. 
Looking downfield, he sees no one and 
steps up. He looks some more, cocks his 
arm and lowers it. Still nothing. 
He darts right and finds two defenders wait-
ing. He stops his progress and steps back, leav-
ing them lying on the turf before cutting to-
ward the sideline. 
This is Kadarius Toney, UF’s star fresh-
man who played quarterback at Blount 
High School near Mobile, Alabama. He 
played quarterback in UF’s spring 
game, too, dashing his way to a 
game-best 74 yards and establishing 
himself as a potential playmaker.
Not wanting to lose that abili-
ty by burying him on the quar-
terback depth chart, UF’s 
Toney turning heads as UF’s do-it-all weapon
FOOTBALL,  from pg 22
Kadarius 
Toney #17