We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 164 THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
O’Sullivan wins Coach of the Year
UF baseball coach Kevin O’Sullivan received 
the Skip Bertman National Coach of the Year Award on Wednesday, pg. 14
UF Interfraternity Council president faces DUI
Police said his BAC was almost 3 times the legal limit, pg. 3
UberEATS launches in Gainesville
Gainesville is the ﬁ  rst college town in Florida to have access to the food delivery service, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Sketching a mural on a wall is 
a long and difﬁ  cult process, but UF 
alumna Liza Kholodkova found a way to save both the effort and time: get a robot to do it.
Kholodkova’s invention, a robot 
named Botsy, can help muralists who want to make their artistic pro-cess easier. Depending on the size of the mural, a sketch could take an art-ist days or even weeks to complete, Kholodkova said. 
Botsy can ﬁ  nish it in a couple of 
hours.
In 2015, Kholodkova graduated 
from UF with a dual degree in me-chanical engineering and aerospace engineering and began a company called BeDrawn, which sells her in-vention to muralists looking to save time. While living in Gainesville and painting murals as a hobby, she no-ticed how difﬁ  cult it was to initially 
map the murals out, leading her to 
create and build Botsy’s original pro-totype after graduating.
Last year, UF’s Integrated Prod-
uct and Process Design, or IPPD, program in the College of Engineer-ing commissioned Kholodkova and Botsy to create a mural in the depart-ment’s currently barren hallway. It 
will be the largest mural Kholodkova 
and her robot have created thus far.In its largest form, Kholodkova 
said her small robot is normally able to produce mural sketches that are 8-by-6 feet. However, the piece for IPPD will be 30-by-6 feet, requiring 
Botsy to be used in four different 
blocks.
“They thought my project was cool,” Kholodkova said of the Col-lege of Engineering’s proposal. “When they called, I wanted to come up with something that captured the spirit of (IPPD).”
Once Kholodkova agreed to lend 
Botsy for the engineering building’s new hallway mural, she began a yearlong search to ﬁ  nd the artist best suited to creating the design. By chance, while watching videos on YouTube, Kholodkova stumbled upon the channel “Kurzgesagt,” 
which translates to “In A Nutshell” 
in German. 
Kholodkova said she instantly fell in love with the channel’s artwork style and emailed them asking if they would design the mural. Much to her joy, they responded and said yes.
“They took some kind of scien-
tiﬁ  c concept and tried to explain it in simple terms,” she said. “When I 
emailed them, they actually replied.”
According to IPPD director Keith 
Stanﬁ  ll, the College of Engineering 
wanted to ﬁ  ll the blank hallway wall leading up to their department. 
“It looks like it leads to a morgue,” 
Stanﬁ  ll said. “I wanted something memorable to make the hall more interesting, and I want it to show-
case the combination of technology 
and art.”
Stanﬁ  ll said he was inspired by 
Kholodkova’s commitment to the project, which he considers a non-traditional path for engineering stu-dents to take due to its artistic focus.
On Tuesday, Botsy began outlin-
ing IPPD’s future mural. Kholodko-
va, along with a group of volunteers, 
plan to spend the rest of the week ﬁ  lling it in with paint. 
Stanﬁ  ll said the mural, a collec-
tion of images of people and technol-ogy, reﬂ  ects the mission and purpose of his program.
“It captures the spirit of what we 
do,” he said.
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgUF alumna puts Botsy, a mural-making robot, to work
Courtesy to the Alligator
While her robot, Botsy, continues to outline the remaining pieces of a new mural on a once blank 
hallway in UF’s New Engineering Building, UF alumna Liza Kholodkova begins to paint.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT 
CAME IN THE FORM 
OF 3 TWEETS.
By Sara Marino and 
David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writers
Gainesville resident El Farley-
Barratt remembers the military dur-
ing “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” 
Conservative. Masculine.The 39-year-old veteran worked 
as a medical corpsman in the Na-val Station Great Lakes’ hospital in the late ‘90s during the U.S. mili-tary’s policy against servicemen and women openly displaying their sexual orientation.  
Farley-Barratt, a transgender 
individual who goes by they/them pronouns, said they remember the 
silence of their gay and lesbian col-
leagues — and the sense of joy felt once the policy was lifted. But Wednesday, after hearing 
the president disparage transgender military personnel, Farley-Barratt’s heart sank. 
In a series of three early morn-
ing tweets, President Donald Trump stated transgenders will no longer be eligible to serve in the military.
“After consultation with my Gen-
erals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Gov-ernment will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in 
any capacity in the U.S. Military,” 
he wrote. “Our military must be fo-cused on decisive and overwhelm-ing victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.”
The new policy will affect ap-
proximately 2,450 active trans-
gender members of the 1.3 million 
active members of the military, ac-cording to The New York Times. 
“I’m upset about all this, I really 
am.” the former Navy medic said. “I thought we were passed it.” 
Farley-Barratt, an administra-
tive assistant at the Malcom Randall Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
said at ﬁ  rst they were simply con-
fused by the news. 
Everyone at the VA center just 
had training on how to work with transgender veterans, they said; the computer systems were in the process of being updated to offer gender-neutral pronouns; and the center recently began providing 
hormone replacement therapy. 
“There are transgender people in 
the military right now,” they said. 
“I don’t know what’s going to hap-pen to them or what they’re going to do.” 
For now, Farley-Barratt said 
their goal hasn’t changed. It’s all about community. 
As president of the Alachua 
TranQuility Community Group, and as the parent of a 16-year-old trans-gender child, Farley-Barratt said it’s their mission to continue reach-ing out and offering support to the Gainesville transgender community. 
“It doesn’t make any sense to 
discriminate,” they said. “I’m just 
going to keep doing what I’m doing 
— connect people.” 
UF ofﬁ  cials, including the heads 
of Multicultural and Diversity Af-fairs and LGBTQ Affairs, have spo-ken internally about Wednesday morning’s news, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote in an email. 
“The matter is certainly some-
thing we are paying attention to,” Sikes said. “The University of Flor-ida prides itself on being a safe and welcoming place for everyone.”
UF President Kent Fuchs has yet 
to make a university-wide state-ment on the matter. In reaction to Trump’s January immigration ban, Fuchs sent an email to students af-
ﬁ  rming UF’s belief in “inclusion and 
diversity.”
UF sustainability and the built 
environment sophomore Kyleigh Caicedo said by keeping transgen-der individuals out of the military, the president is merely weakening the country’s defense while perpet-uating a stigma against transgender 
Americans. 
“Being trans doesn’t prevent a 
person from loving their country 
and wanting to defend it, and it’s harmful to the trans community for Trump to suggest that through his ban,” the 19-year-old said.
Though Caicedo said she’s 
“disappointed and outraged” by 
Trump’s announcement, she’s con-
ﬁ  dent it’s only temporary. 
“Trump won’t last forever,” she 
said. “This is a major setback in our progress as a nation, and it deﬁ  nite-ly spreads intolerance in a country that should be an example to the rest of the world.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
‘Disappointed and outraged’: Reactions to Trump’s trans tweetsWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista 
Joshua Broadhead on Fridays from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for Brazilian martial arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park. There is no need to pre-register. For more information, visit acl-gainesville.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email 
 editor@alligator.org.
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 164THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
HIS BLOOD ALCOHOL CONTENT 
WAS ALMOST 3 TIMES THE 
LEGAL LIMIT.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Two weeks after his on-campus arrest, it 
is unknown whether the president of UF’s 
Interfraternity Council for 2017-18 will see 
consequences for the DUI charge he faces. 
Shane Michael Hanney, 21, was arrest-
ed July 14 at about 2:51 a.m. for drunkenly 
driving his scooter on his way home from 
Midtown, according to a University Police 
arrest report. Police pulled Hanney over af-ter he swerved in his lane multiple times and stopped about 3 feet past a stop sign on West Fraternity Drive.
Hanney, who served as the president of 
UF’s Theta Chi Fraternity last year, tested .226 and .239 for his blood alcohol content, according to the report. The legal limit is 
.08. 
Hanney faces a DUI charge and has a 
court arraignment set for Aug. 17, accord-
ing to Alachua County court records. 
As IFC president, Hanney represents the country’s fourth-largest fraternity system, with 26 total chapters and about 2,800 members, according to the UF IFC’s web-site. 
After multiple attempts, neither IFC ofﬁ  -
cials nor UF Sorority and Fraternity Affairs could be reached for comment. UF spokes-person Janine Sikes said due to student pri-
vacy laws, the university and the IFC are 
not at liberty to say whether Hanney will face consequences.
“On issues involving student conse-
quences or penalties, we can’t provide 
comment,” Sikes said. 
Hanney could not be reached for com-
ment.
While some take issue with how 
Hanney’s behavior reﬂ  ects on the student 
community, others feel it could prove ben-eﬁ  cial for Hanney and the IFC fraternities. 
Zachariah Chou, an independent Stu-
dent Government senator representing 
Inﬁ  nity Hall, said regardless of whether 
there are consequences, Hanney could take his negative experience and turn it into a learning experience for the thousands of 
young men he’ll oversee as IFC president. 
“Now he knows exactly what’s at stake with having a criminal record,” said the 
19-year-old political science and journal-ism sophomore. “At this point it’s just a matter of whether he’ll take what he’s 
learned and put it to use.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Shane Hanney, who is listed as 
the 2017-18 president for UF’s Interfraternity Council, was arrested on July 14 on a DUI. It is unknown as 
of press time whether Hanney will see 
any consequences.
IFC president status, consequences unknown after DUIBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Today at 11 a.m., UberEATS will be 
launching its app in Gainesville — the ﬁ  rst 
college town in Florida to use the compa-
ny’s food delivery service. 
Stemming from the original Uber app, 
which is used to transport people to and from speciﬁ  c locations, UberEATS will be a separate app where drivers can deliver food 
to anyone anywhere in Gainesville. 
JP Restrepo, the general manager of 
UberEATS Florida, said launching Uber-
EATS in Gainesville was part of a wide-
spread initiative to expand the company to 
cities in Florida. 
Since Gainesville is a college town, Re-
strepo said Uber has a strong presence and is known for its reliability and affordability, 
making it a top choice for food delivery. 
“We’re very conﬁ  dent that this is go-
ing to be a very good market and place for UberEATS,” he said. 
Restrepo said UberEATS allows custom-
ers to see a restaurant’s full menu and has a ﬂ  at-rate delivery fee of $4.99.
He added UberEATS has a shorter wait 
time than other delivery companies, averag-
ing about 35 minutes, and it operates 24/7.  “The user gets to track the order as well, 
from the moment they put in the order on the app,” Restrepo said. 
Although Uber and UberEATS are two 
separate apps, he said customers and driv-ers can use the same account for both.
“In addition to transporting passengers, 
you’re also going to have the ability to de-liver food if you’d like,” Restrepo said.  
Javier Correoso, the public affairs man-
ager for Uber Florida, said UberEATS is fo-
cused on adding a variety of food options 
to their list of restaurants, particularly local places.
Popular food chains, such as BurgerFi 
and Moe’s Southwest Grill, will always be 
available to customers. However, Correoso 
said the company is working on adding more local places to their app. 
While Uber has a well-known name, 
UberEATS is going to face competition in the Gainesville area with delivery compa-nies that have already established a reputa-tion, such as Bite Squad.
Craig Key, the vice president of market-
ing for Bite Squad, said he is conﬁ  dent it 
will continue to prosper even with the pres-
ence of UberEATS. 
He said although Bite Squad came to Gainesville in February, the city has become 
one of the company’s best markets.
“It went from our newest market to one 
of our top performing markets in just a mat-ter of a few months,” Key said. 
Key said there will be a percent of the 
population who use UberEATS. However, 
he said while they might see a little blip on the radar, he knows customers will be able 
to see a clear difference in superiority. 
“Our focus has been less about the com-
petition, and it’s just been more about step-
ping up with right drivers, having great res-taurants in Gainesville … and the rest kind 
of works itself out,” Key said. 
UF telecommunication senior Caitlin All-
weiss, who likes to use delivery services 
when she doesn’t feel like driving to South-west Archer Road, said she’s interested to 
see how competition between the two will 
play out.
Allweiss, 21, said before Bite Squad came 
to town earlier this year, she used services like 352 Delivery, Gainesville2Go, Doorstep 
Delivery and 2 Dollar Delivery. 
Now, she uses Bite Squad about ﬁ  ve 
times a month to order food from restau-
rants including Bento, Zoe’s Kitchen and SweetBerries.Although a loyal Bite Squad customer, 
Allweiss said she’s heard nothing but good 
things about UberEATS and will most likely 
try it in the future.
“If UberEATS is cheaper and faster, 
I think it’ll probably do better than Bite 
Squad,” she said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
UberEATS will start delivering food in Gainesville today
Gainesville Delivery 
Services:
• UberEATS
• Bite Squad
• 2 Dollar Delivery
• Doorstep Delivery
• 352 Delivery
• GrubHub
• EatStreetIt will have a lat rate of $4.99 and operate 24/7THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
TWO ARMED ROBBERIES 
HAPPENED WITHIN 
3 HOURS.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Two armed robberies took place 
within three hours of each other 
Sunday night in Gainesville. 
After locking up for the night and walking to his car around 10 p.m., an employee of Tailgate Bev-erages was surprised by an armed man hiding behind the other side of his white SUV, wrote Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. 
According to released security 
footage, the employee appeared 
to be fumbling around, looking for 
items inside of his car before the robber ran around the hood of the car and attacked.
The robber, wearing a black 
hoodie and gloves to conceal his identity, grabbed the employee from behind and demanded his wallet before striking him in the back of the head with his gun and running away, Tobias said.
It is not yet known exactly how 
much money was stolen. Tobias said police haven’t responded to a robbery in the area surrounding that liquor store, located at 4340 SW 20th Ave., in a while.
Fewer than three hours later, 
a second armed robber held up the X-Mart Adult Supercenter on Southwest 13th Street. Shortly af-ter 1 a.m., the robber pointed his handgun at an X-Mart employee, demanded cash and ran away with 
the money before police arrived, 
according to Alligator archives. 
The man wore a pantyhose mask to conceal his identity. 
The robbers from both inci-
dents are still on the loose, as of press time. Tobias said it is pres-ently unclear if the two robberies are related. 
“Crime can happen anywhere, 
at any time,” Tobias said. “Resi-dents need to always be aware 
of their surroundings and always 
have a plan if they ﬁ  nd themselves in a situation such as this.” 
GPD: Armed robber attacks Tailgate Beverages employee
By T abitha Basuseto
Alligator Contributing Writer
On-campus students will soon have 
access to wireless internet in every dorm 
room.
UF’s Housing & Residence and Edu-
cation and Student Affairs created the World Class Wireless initiative to in-stall the connections after student inter-
views and comments from 2014 to 2016 
showed a demand in accessible internet.
Wireless internet has been installed 
in nine residence halls under the initia-tive. Connections are currently being in-
stalled in Tolbert Area, and Beaty Tow-
ers should have wireless internet by the end of the year, said Matt Pendleton, the associate director of information and technology at Student Affairs. 
“We need to make sure that the room 
is not occupied, that’s why we’ve been working really hard this Summer,” he said. “We’re about 85 to 90 percent done.”
Pendleton said money for the initia-
tive comes from the housing rent stu-dents are charged every semester. How-ever, he said rent rates should not be 
affected by the Wi-Fi installation. 
Pendleton said dorm rooms used to 
share the same wireless access point, 
causing internet to be slow. 
“Think about when you are in class, 
and everyone is on their devices,” Pend-leton said. “The internet would start to get slower the more people are on it. So we wanted to come up with a design that 
would match the speed and the reliabil-
ity of having that one ethernet port in your room.”
Diana Reuangrith, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology senior who lived in Buckman 
Hall in 2014, said there was no wireless 
internet in her room, and her laptop didn’t have an ethernet jack.
“It was very inconvenient because I 
would have to go to the Murphree Area Commons or the library to do my home-work,” she said. “It’s really great that the school is willing to pay for it. Wire-less internet has become an integral part 
of education — everything is online.”Wireless internet will be available in all residence halls
Broward Area
Graham Area
Hume Hall
Inﬁ  nity Hall
Keys Complex
Lakeside Complex
Murphree Area
Springs Complex
Yulee Area
Places in progress:
Tolbert Area
Beaty TowersResidence Halls with Wi-Fi:The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORAssassinating the president is no laughing matter
Recently, a few notable actors and come-
dians have brought it upon themselves 
to joke about assassinating President 
Donald Trump. Generally, these jokes are condemned across the spectrum as, 
even though politics may be a bit more volatile than it should be, most believe no one should die. Notable people who have recently commit-
ted themselves to these jokes are Johnny Depp, 
with his John Wilkes Booth allusion, and Kathy Griffin, with the picture of her holding up a fake 
severed head of Trump.
Since the reactions to both statements were so severe, 
I was curious about the history surrounding presidential assassinations. From my research, I learned a great many 
things, but to save space I’ll just lay out the statistics.
So far (and again, hopefully as far as it will ever be), 
only four presidents have been assassinated. These four presidents, in chronological order, are Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley and John F. Kenne-
dy. Notably, after the assassination of McKinley, Congress 
ordered the Secret Service to protect the president as part of their duty.
More than 30 different assassination attempts have oc-
curred in the past, and 16 presidents (former Presidents Andrew Jackson, Lincoln, William Howard Taft, Theodore 
Roosevelt, Herbert Hoover, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry 
S. Truman, Kennedy, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, 
George W. Bush and Barack Obama) have all faced them. 
With 45 presidential administrations and more than 30 as-sassination attempts, it sure is frightening to think of how 
common assassination attempts seem to be.  
And for those of you as young as I am who rarely think 
of these things, Obama himself faced three attempts since 2009: one in another country; one where a man believed 
himself to be Christ and Obama the Antichrist and decid-edly shot at the White House with several rounds of a 
semi-automatic rifle; and one secretive attempt where a letter laced with ricin, a fatal poison, was sent 
to the White House.
Of course, presidents should never be re-
membered for the vile people who decide to take another life for their own pleasure, gain 
or other reason. However, it is important to 
put things in perspective and know that we are  currently in a period of American safety and 
peace.
I hope no one takes this the wrong way and 
believes that I am advocating for an assassina-
tion. A presidential assassination and attempts themselves 
are scarring to the targeted individuals and our country. My father was very young when Kennedy was assassi-
nated, but he never forgot that day. He’s always explained 
it as a still, silent and somber day filled with fears and tears. It saddens me more when I hear the story, because 
I always remember he turned six years old that very same 
day.
Needless to say, I hope no one will ever push the 
boundaries of their presidential criticisms to the decision of assassination. Presidents aren’t perfect, and even some are sly, corrupt or outright evil when they try to get what 
they want.
For example, when Nixon wanted to defeat his enemies 
and prove his points, he started the war on drugs to asso-ciate hippies with marijuana and African-Americans with 
heroin. This led to the arrests of these peoples’ leaders, invasions of their homes and a general vilification of these 
people. Nixon did all this knowing, at the very least, mari-
juana was not harmful. His administration started a war that disenfranchised and harmed multiple communities 
across multiple generations.
He, however, should not be killed for something like 
that. If you desire, hold someone accountable under the law, but do not take the law’s decision into your own 
hands.  
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
If they want to serve, 
let them serve
The one good thing we have to say about a Trump 
presidency is that it keeps Americans on their toes. We’ve learned to be ready for anything, and at this point, there isn’t much left that can surprise us. However, just because we are used to the constant 
bewilderment we’ve been facing, it doesn’t mean we are OK with it.
On Wednesday, President Donald Trump tweeted, “After 
consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not ac-cept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any ca-pacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be bur-dened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you.”
For lack of a better reaction, are you freaking kidding 
me?
Besides the obvious issue that this decision is based on 
pure bigotry and transphobia, the argument that Trump presents in his tweets is illogical and drenched in fallacy. Furthermore, his proposal weakens our armed forces, some-thing he promised to enhance.
Trump’s misguided attempt to shield his prejudice to-
ward the transgender community led him to reason that transgender members of the military cost too much in medical expenses. He didn’t offer any numbers behind this claim, but a Department of Defense commissioned study published last year by the Rand Corp. did. 
The study estimated that the typical health care costs 
for gender-transition-related medical treatments would cost the military between $2.4 million and $8.4 million annu-ally. Think that’s a big number? According to the study, the military spends $84 million annually on erectile dysfunction medicines — $41.6 million goes to Viagra alone. So, who is really costing the military a tremendous amount in medical expenses? Is it the transgender community or the flaccid males who can’t get it up?
As of right now, there are about 15,000 transgender peo-
ple serving in the U.S. military. These are Americans who are willing to fight and willing to die for their country and their freedom. That’s a whole lot more than most Ameri-cans are willing to do, including our president. 
During the Vietnam War, a young Trump dodged the mil-
itary draft a total of five times. Four times using college as an excuse, and once claiming he had bad feet. The fact that this cowardly deserter had the audacity to disallow brave Americans from defending their country is truly despicable. 
Although he promised to strengthen our military, Trump 
is instead telling about 1.4 million Americans they are not eligible to serve, decreasing the total military force.
Strength in numbers is a policy that applies the most in 
the army and in war. Those currently serving in the military are already putting their lives on the line for our country, and by decreasing the military force, they go into even more danger. America needs forces, and America needs support. 
Trump’s proposal is nothing but an ill-advised, intoler-
ant and senseless attempt to continue to favor with right-wing extremists. His plan has no merit, no reason and no place in America.
James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
The T op and Atlantic to celebrate anniversaries
The two are teaming up to host a three-day festival, pg. 9Musicians to watch in 2017
Find out who you should be listening to, pg. 10By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Raekwon, formerly of Wu-Tang Clan, 
will perform in Gainesville on his “The 
Wild” tour Saturday at High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors will open at 
8 p.m. with the show starting at 8:30 p.m. 
Advanced tickets for the show are $22 and $25 the day of the show. 
In addition to consistently working with 
the Wu-Tang Clan, Raekwon has released seven solo albums showcasing his maﬁ  oso rap style. “The Wild” is his most recent al-bum, released in March. The 16-track proj-ect features guest artists such as Lil Wayne, CeeLo Green and G-Eazy.
Other Florida artists will be featured as 
openers for Saturday’s show, including But-
ta Bing from Jacksonville, and Hugo $an-
chez and Br3adgang Blazel from Gainesville. 
Sanchez is no stranger to High Dive, hav-
ing opened for Curren$y in January 2016.
Since that show, he has made tremen-
dous gains in his career. This includes start-ing to produce his own music in his home studio on his small label Detective Collec-tive, where he collaborates with other local artists on different projects. 
Because he does his own artwork, he re-
fers to his craft as do-it-yourself-style.
“No one helps me, so stuff takes me a 
long time to do,” he said. “But, it’s made with love. It’s all handcrafted.” 
Like most of the openers, he’s inspired 
by old-school hip-hop and rhythm and blues. Sometimes, though, he gains inspira-
tion through drinking coffee, smoking a cig-
arette and watching old commercials from the ‘90s online. 
“I’ll just sit there on YouTube and watch 
old cereal commercials, and that’s the kind of stuff that gets me writing,” he said. 
He doesn’t rap about obvious themes 
that are found in rap music, like gun vio-lence or drugs. This isn’t because he doesn’t think they’re valid, but because they’re not 
what dominates his own thoughts. 
“I don’t really rap about stuff I don’t do,” 
he said. “So, I’m not rapping about being 
cool.”
More than anything, Sanchez is writing 
for himself. But he’s also writing for the people who grew up like he did — as latch-key kids raised by television. 
“As long as I keep on making art that’s 
good enough for me, I feel like I’m going 
to connect with the people who think like I 
do,” he said. 
Another Florida artist opening the show 
is Butta Bing from Jacksonville. Also known 
as Lawrence Critton, he’s been pursuing music for the past 15 years. Critton’s music is also inspired by old-
school sounds. Wu-Tang Clan has been a huge part of his life, inspiring him to use his 
background to be honest about drugs and 
violence in his music. 
Being authentic is what’s most impor-
tant for Critton. He said rappers who aren’t 
true to themselves and their music are not what hip-hop is supposed to be about.“(Hip-hop) was always founded in the 
streets,” he said. “Before social media, that was the media. I think that if you’re going 
to tell people one thing, make sure you tell 
them the whole truth.”
For Critton, showing the whole truth 
means presenting both sides of the story. 
Because he actually lived many of the songs that rappers like to write, he feels like he can give an accurate picture of both the good and the bad.
“I think that’s what probably separates 
me from a lot of artists … who make those bad things seem so good to kids,” he said. “If you went through that then you can’t 
glorify that.”
Although he only began seriously per-
forming for crowds last year, his expecta-
tions for this show are high. He’s been on the lookout to perform for bigger crowds 
and open for people whom he admires. Rae-
kwon is one of those people.
“If they like Raekwon and his style of 
hip-hop then they absolutely (have) to like 
me,” he said. 
Another Gainesville rapper opening the 
show is Br3adgang Blazel, also known as 
Earnest Hill. 
Hill describes himself as a simple, hard-
working person who doesn’t require much in life. He draws a lot of inspiration from the same music the other openers do, but 
his sound is also mixed with Southern and 
West Coast vibes. 
Recently, Hill has been on the up-cycle 
with his career. He mostly attributes this to dedication in performing and developing his 
brand. 
“Consistency is key at that point because 
you can only pick up new people, and you’ll 
continue to spread the word,” he said.
While different musicians inspire him, 
Hill is motivated by his family and witness-ing the success of others.
“I’m genuinely happy for them because 
some of them are successful and some of 
them just love what they’re doing. Just to 
see them reach their goals, that inspires me to go a little bit harder,” he said.
Hill always tries to be honest with the 
people he performs for. During intermis-sions in his performances, he’ll speak to the audience plainly about his day to build a re-lationship with them. Sometimes, he’ll also use that time to explain the meaning behind 
his songs.
“I might talk about what some of the 
lines of the song mean, so people can break 
them down and understand what I’m actu-
ally saying, instead of just hearing me say it 
in the song,” he said. 
Being able to perform in the same show 
as Raekwon is a dream come true for these three up-and-coming performers who grew 
up listening to Wu-Tang Clan.
Sanchez said he expects the crowd to be 
“people who appreciate old, dusty sampled 
gritty sounding beats, people who appreci-
ate DJs, people who appreciate dark music, 
dark environments, smoky air, liquor and the vibes that come along with that aes-thetic.” 
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
Raekwon The Chef, both a Wu-T ang Clan collaborator and solo artist, will 
bring his talents to High Dive on Saturday. THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
High Dive hosts Raekwon The Chef for only Florida Show
MUSIC
•   •   ••   •   •8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
A four-week dance intensive is exactly 
what it sounds like. 
For the past month, weekdays from 
11 a.m. to 6 p.m., students taking Trent 
D. Williams Jr.’s Summer Dance Intensive 
study modern dance technique and com-
position like members of a vinyl-ﬂ  oored 
boot camp. The undergraduates bring their 
game faces to the studio, only to break 
for lunch, pirouetting holes into their jazz 
shoes until the seventh hour runs out. 
The dancers have spent a month pre-
paring for the annual Swamp Dance Fest, a three-day event from Friday to Sunday. 
This year, dance choreographers Stefanie 
Batten Bland and Juel D. Lane guest cho-
reographed two compositions — Batten 
Bland’s “Germe” and Lane’s “Outside 
Steps.” Both works tackle thought-provok-
ing subject matter and tell compelling sto-ries through the modern genre. 
Williams, who has been teaching at UF 
for four years, received his M.A. in dance and choreography from Florida State Uni-
versity. His choreographed works have 
been performed in professional and aca-
demic venues across the country, and he is 
a founding member of a Washington, D.C., dance theater. He has also performed with 
popular musicians like Janelle Monáe, 112 
and Destiny’s Child, according to the press 
release. 
Williams’ students, all pre-profession-
al artists over the age of 18, came to the 
intensive July 5 with varying degrees of experience. Some are matriculating fresh-
men, some are seasoned UF dance students 
and some are non-UF students interested in the UF School of Theatre and Dance. 
“Attending a dance intensive is a great 
time for dancers to focus on themselves, their technique and their creative voice,” Williams said. “It’s very intense in the 
sense that it’s nothing but dance classes. 
There are no extracurricular activities, no coursework and no distractions. We 
encourage students to use this time to fo-
cus on themselves creatively, technically, physically and emotionally.”
All the work showcased during Swamp 
Dance Fest was created within the four weeks of the intensive. Batten Bland and 
Lane drew inspiration from their own 
professional paths and the students them-
selves, Williams said.
On Fridays, the students get to experi-
ence “UnShowings,” a way to break down 
the creative process and receive feedback for elements that should be shifted or 
changed. During the school year, students 
showcase their own work in the “UnShow-
ings.” Bringing this process to the inten-
sive is a way to get students acclimated to what is a common practice in the dance 
program, Williams said. 
Just as the students are dipping their 
toes into the world of professional dance, Williams said he considers himself a 
sponge in the way he, in turn, learns from 
his students.
“I’m always learning different ways 
to approach teaching, hearing how their 
learning process works,” Williams said. “I teach my students to be adaptable. This 
trait is so important for what they might 
encounter in their own careers.”
Grace Landefeld, a 19-year-old UF dance 
and wildlife ecology and conservation ju-nior, has been dancing her whole life, fol-
lowing in the footsteps of her mother. She 
decided to continue her dance career be-yond high school.
Landefeld said UF’s program “gave (her) 
a sense of family and community from the moment they said ‘Go!’ at auditions that has continued to this day.”
Landefeld said she cannot emphasize 
enough how great the opportunity to work 
with Batten Bland and Lane is. 
“Their classes have really challenged 
all of us, and they have brought to us so 
many different views of the dance world,” she said. “We learned about improvisation 
and dance theater from Stefanie, which we 
rarely get to do in the dance program, and about how social media plays a huge role 
in our careers from Juel.”
Landefeld said Swamp Dance Fest has 
pushed her in new ways and helped her 
develop connections in the professional 
dance world.“I’m really excited for the show this 
weekend,” she said. “Being able to dance 
on stage and move with your best friends 
is an experience no one in the world gets 
to have, and it’s a great feeling.” 
The dancers will perform at the G-6 Stu-
dio of the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion on Friday and Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. Sunday’s performance will have 
a 2 p.m. matinee. 
Tickets are $18 for the general public, 
$15 for seniors, UF faculty and staff and 
$13 for students. Tickets can be purchased 
at the University Box Ofﬁ  ce or online at www.ticketmaster.com.UF students to perform at annual Swamp Dance Fest
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
Students practice a modern routine for Swamp Dance Fest, the culmination 
of the UF School of Theatre and Dance’s summer intensive that will take place this weekend.
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
This weekend, The Atlan-
tic Nightspot, located at 15 N. 
Main St., will host The Top 
and The Atlantic Anniversary 
Blowout to celebrate their 17th and 13th anniversaries, re-spectively. 
Various artists will play 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights at The Atlantic and The Wooly. In addition to these musicians, a few DJs will also 
be playing at venues through-
out the blowout, including Ar-cade Bar.
Anthony Verdi, the bassist 
for the band Heat Rash, said the event will bring artists from across the music spec-trum to the stage. 
Verdi said the band is in-
ﬂ  uenced by artists like Flipper and The Jesus Lizard. Heat Rash is set to play The Atlan-tic on Friday at 10:10 p.m. and will bring their classic rock sound to the stage. 
“We are up-tempo heavy 
rock ’n’ roll, like old ‘90s just kind of heavy old rock music. But (Jacob Holland) has an in-teresting unique style, an old-
school punk mixture,” said 
Verdi, 29, when describing the band’s sound and the vocal-ist’s style. 
Verdi said events like the 
anniversary blowout are im-portant in order to celebrate Gainesville spots that bring at-tention to local bands. 
“(The Top has) been doing 
it for like 15 years, and The Atlantic is right behind it,” he said. “My friends and I go to 
so many shows at both ven-
ues. It’s so important to sup-port the venues that support the Gainesville scene.”
Bailey Bruce, the events di-
rector for The Wooly, said she is excited for the bands to per-form on The Wooly stage, not only to gain audience recogni-
tion but also to showcase the 
newly redone Wooly. 
“I’m just excited to see all 
the bands take a step on our stage,” she said. “I’m really 
excited to bring that to The 
Wooly, to bring local bands to the stage and get audience rec-ognition. I just have a love for 
Gainesville music.”
Verdi said the event will 
mostly bring out people in-
volved in the Gainesville mu-sic scene because rock venues 
can be intimidating to those 
who aren’t accustomed to it. 
“This will bring out a lot 
of older people who have 
families that don’t get to go 
to shows anymore,” he said. “We would love to see a more diverse crowd. Everyone ﬁ  nds out about music in their own 
ways.” 
Bruce said the annual event is for guests to have fun and 
celebrate the birthdays of The 
Top and The Atlantic by taking 
in the live music. 
“The idea is to have just a 
massive blowout party to cel-ebrate,” she said. “Just have 
as many people come and en-
joy our block as much as pos-sible.”
The events throughout the 
weekend are free and open to the public, but age restrictions vary from 18 and older to 21 and older based on the venue. For more information about 
the festival including art-
ists, set times, giveaways and more, check out their Face-book page at facebook.com/
events/1492457407479618.
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
The Atlantic and The T op are 
teaming up to celebrate their anniversaries this weekend. THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
August 26, 2017
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
HIPPODROME THEATRE
25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GVILLE
352.375.4477 | THEHIPP.ORG
Foreve Plaid
 Leave your worries behind and come experience
an incredible evening of music, dancing and laughter 
with the Plaids! Live on stage with 8 shows a week!
Ask about our student disounts!
MUSIC Atlantic, The Top to host anniversary festivalBy Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Whether you’ve been streaming Calvin 
Harris’ summer-inspired album “Funk Wav 
Bounces Vol. 1,” the Gorillaz’s long-awaited new album “Humanz,” Lorde’s sophomore 
album “Melodrama” or anything in between, it’s no secret that 2017 has been a big year 
for music. Luckily for us, this year is far from over, and plenty of artists have a lot more 
to give. If you’re looking for something new within your favorite genres or simply for songs to add to your playlist, look no further 
than these four rising musicians and groups.
Hundred Waters
In addition to being talented musi-
cians, Hundred Waters met and formed in 
Gainesville back in 2011. If you’re a fan of 
indie music that dips into other genres like 
alternative, electronica and more, this group is deﬁ  nitely for you. In 2012, well-known 
electronic dance music artist Skrillex took 
this trio under his wing, signing them to 
his label OWSLA while allowing them to maintain their indie style. Along with that, 
the producer remixed their track “Show Me 
Love,” bringing in Chance the Rapper as a 
featured artist to garner more than 60 million 
streams across music services like Sound-
Cloud, Spotify and YouTube. Even better? 
The group will be returning to Gainesville on Aug. 25 for a show at Heartwood Sound-
stage, located at 619 S. Main St. As of press 
time, the show is ofﬁ  cially sold out.
Rezz
For fans of techno artists like deadmau5 
and Feed Me, Rezz is deﬁ  nitely worth a listen. As one of the only females in the EDM genre, 
Rezz is revolutionizing the industry one song at a time. As opposed to a lot of other EDM 
producers right now, her sound is dark and 
sinister. Although not for the faint of heart, 
her production style is technical and distinc-
tive. Her eight-track debut album, “Mass Ma-
nipulation,” will be released Aug. 4. Keiynan Lonsdale
If this name sounds familiar to you, 
chances are you’ve heard it before. Lons-dale is known best for his acting career; he starred in the “Divergent” trilogy and plays Wally West/Kid Flash on the CW’s “The Flash.” In addition to being an actor, Lon-sdale has dipped into the music world over the past year. His ﬁ  rst ever indie/hip-hop 
inspired single, “Higher,” came out in 2015, 
and he’s made multiple appearances on EDM releases this year. His latest song, “Lay It On Me,” produced by Kasbo, surpassed 1 mil-lion streams on YouTube in just one week, a good sign for what’s to come for the artist.
 
Slow Hours
Composed of six French producers, this 
new group has already displayed their talent in two releases. What So Not, an experimen-tal producer formerly a part of Flume, gave 
Slow Hours their start when a band mem-
ber approached him after a concert, play-ing a remix of a What So Not song for him off an iPhone. This became the ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial 
remix for What So Not’s “Lone” off his suc-
cessful “Divide & Conquer” extended play. Both that remix and their subsequent release 
display the masterful production techniques 
these six have to offer, and 2017 is just the beginning for them.10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
Musicians to watch throughout the rest of 2017
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
Hundred Waters, a group that formed in Gainesville, will be performing at 
Heartwood Soundstage in August. 
MUSICBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
WINDSOR PARK 2BR/2BA CONDO
Over $22,000 spent on remodel. Tile bath, 
wood floor throughout. New kitchen, new 
baths. 727-815-2219    8-1-17-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-14-17-70-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
WANTED:
SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT ORONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET.1BR garage apt, w/ garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-1-17-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    8-1-17-4-14ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. GEOGRAPHY: What body of 
water separates European and Asian 
Turkey?
2. PROVERBS: What is the ending 
to this famous proverb: “Actions speak ...”?
3. LITERATURE: What flower does 
the following Shakespearean line refer to: “That which we call ... by any other name would smell as sweet”?
4. U.S. STATES: Which state is last 
in alphabetical order?
5. COMICS: What was Wolverine’s 
secret identity?
6. MEDICAL: What is a more com-
mon name for tussis?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of herons called?
8. MATH: How many zeroes are in 
a trillion?
9. ANATOMY: What role does the 
olfactory nerve play in the human body?
10. HISTORY: What was the name 
of the military operation for the Allied invasion of France?
Answers
1. Bosphorus Strait2. ... louder than words.”3. A rose (“Romeo and Juliet”)4. Wyoming5. James Logan Howlett
6. Cough
7. A siege8. 129. Responsible for sense of smell10. Operation Overlord
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 24, 2017King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 “Dawn of the
Dead” (1978)
director
7 Street, in
Stuttgart
14 *Billboard entry
16 “S’pose so”
17 First of a film
series aboutDamien Thorn
18 Cultural
environments
19 Marines NCO20 *Upright
instrument in a
bluegrass band
22 Head of
Hollywood
24 Switchback
feature
25 Bordeaux wine
28 Hankering30 Mauna __33 19-Across boss34 Conniption35 “Oh, crud!”
36 *Place to land
when there’s no
land in sight
40 Span. miss
41 “U R 2 funny!”42 Goosebump-
inducing
43 Neptune’s 
realm
44 Hot state45 Irritating
inconvenience
46 Post-Manhattan
Project org.
47 Selling points?
49 *LensCrafters
products
53 Grouch
57 “Let’s talk in my
office”
58 Word in many
hymns
60 “Inka Dinka Doo”
singer
61 Hollywood family
name ... andwhat theanswers to
starred clues
have in common
62 Son of
Clytemnestra
63 Campaign
uglinessDOWN
1 Official accts.
2 Sounds of
amazement
3 Compressed
video file format
4 Abstruse
knowledge
5 Com can follow it
6 At all
7 “The Urbz: __ in
the City”: video
game
8 Long-odds bet
9 It’s often put on a
dog
10 Litmus reddeners
11 Short itinerary?12 Motown music13 First word of
Massachusetts’motto
15 Pest in a swarm
21 Lazy
23 Stag, for one25 Elegance26 French wine
valley
27 Main artery
29 It may be nervous
30 Hibernation spots31 NBC newsman
Roger32 Come to terms
35 Specification
regarding threads
37 Like many
steakhousemenus
38 London bank?39 Harvest44 Give in45 Unmannerly
sorts, inCanadian slang46 Turkish honorifics48 Window box plant49 Opposite of exo-50 Part of FYI51 Raison d’__52 Witnesses54 Latvian capital55 Taiwan-based
computer giant
56 Gershwin heroine59 Parsons of
“Hidden Figures”
By Pancho Harrison
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/27/1707/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ACROSS
1 Understand, in
slang
5 Greek liqueur
9 Time-traveling
TV character
14 Strauss of denim15 Hair salon sound16 Setting for much
of “Moana”
17 Final bio18 “Too bad we
have to throw outthis uneatenfood”
20 Asian noodle dish
22 Bro kin
23 Earl Grey, e.g.24 Shrill barks26 Word with room
or center
28 Storied31 They may need
breaking in
36 Bitter-tasting37 Sioux City state38 Doing nothing39 Small IOU40 Muppet who
loves thispuzzle’s fourlongest answers?
41 Astronaut
Armstrong
42 With perfection43 Blueprint44 Chevy muscle
car
45 Condition caused
by 31-Across, attimes
47 Snake warnings48 Darling of
baseball
49 Holey kitchen
gadget
51 Rooter for the
Bulldogs
54 Bro or sis56 Bennie’s band, in
an Elton John hit
60 Hurls competitive
insults
63 D-Day beach64 “I swear!”65 Lotion additive66 One of Emeril’s
New Orleanseateries
67 Test one’s metal68 Many a Punjabi69 Was positive
DOWN
1 Yucky guck2 First name in
country music3 Roman poet
exiled by
Augustus
4 Pet product also
used for tire
traction
5 Disney’s Lucky
Rabbit
6 Behind the times
7 New Mexico tribe
with a Sun symbol
8 Goes (for)
9 Searches for
water
10 Color TV pioneer11 Way to go, per
Horace Greeley
12 More than dislike
13 Draft category
19 Conflict with
planes
21 Listen to25 Ski resort
vehicles
27 Taiwan Strait
vessel
28 Trivia quiz fodder29 Blessing
preceder
30 Prickly shrub32 McGregor of TV’s
“Fargo”
33 “Golden Boy”
playwright
34 A-listers35 Tennis great
Monica
37 Iona, for one
40 Christmas
encouragement
44 “__ la France!”46 “Woman in the
Mists” subjectDian
47 [Snicker]
50 “There, there”
51 Sicilian World
Heritage Site52 Mekong River
land
53 Misfortunes55 Bikini tops57 Kind of collar or
jacket
58 Story
59 “Pygmalion”
playwright
61 Bicycle maker
turned
automotive giant
62 __ Baba
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/26/1707/26/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 26, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Designated drivers are the greatestTHURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design 
using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1.  Divided equally
1.  Frying sound5.  Horse relative
2.  European country6.  ____ pollution 
3.  Tax ____7.  ____ school
4.  Under ____SERHDA
EZLISZABERZ
SEONI
NAILAAB
SVOINEAATNMGE
SARETRANSWERS: 1A-Shared  5A-Zebra  6A-Noise  7A-Magnet
1D-Sizzle  2D-Albania  3D-Evasion  4D-Arrest  B-Tarzan7-27-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This fictional character made his debut in 1912.
BONUS207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 23 Rides
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBader hitting .500 through first two MLB games
Former UF outfielder Harrison Bader is 4-for-8 with one walk and one run 
through his first two games as a Major League Baseball player. Bader was 
called up by the St. Louis Cardinals on Tuesday and has made two starts in center field.UF senior Caeleb Dressel 
broke a world record in the FINA World Championships on Wednesday. Read on Pg. 15.
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Less than six weeks remain 
until Florida kicks off the 2017 
regular season against Michigan at AT&T Stadium. The Gators 
enter this year as back-to-back 
SEC East champions, notching 13 conference wins under coach Jim McElwain since he took over the program in 2015. As always, UF’s success on the gridiron this fall will largely depend on its roster, a group of players featuring both seasoned veterans 
and unestablished newcomers. 
Here is the position preview for players set to play tight end at Florida this year:
 
Players: Brian Fallace (R-
Jr.), Ryan Ferguson (R-Jr.), Kemore Gamble (Fr.), DeAndre Goolsby (Sr.), Harry Gornto V (R-So.), C’yontai Lewis (R-Jr.), Moral Stephens (R-Jr.)
 Florida enters this fall with 
almost no turnover at the tight end position.
Senior DeAndre Goolsby 
is back and looks to build off 
an impressive 2016 season 
that saw him record 342 yards 
and three touchdowns on 38 receptions. The Derby, Kansas, 
native is currently ranked as 
the fourth best tight end in next 
year’s draft class, according to 
Fox Sports, and figures to play a big role in UF’s offense once 
again.
Redshirt junior C’yontai 
Lewis is returning as well. Lewis finished fifth on the team last 
season in both receiving yards 
(184) and catches (18) and also 
notched touchdowns against Georgia and South Carolina.
Redshirt juniors Moral 
Stephens, Brian Fallace and Ryan Ferguson, as well as redshirt sophomore Harry 
Gornto V, round out the veteran 
tight ends set to play for the Gators this fall.
Stephens appeared in 10 
games last year, mostly on 
special teams, but did record 
a 14-yard reception against Kentucky on Sept. 10. Fallace, 
Ferguson and Gornto V, on the 
other hand, did not see the field 
in 2016.
The one newcomer for 
Florida at tight end this season is freshman Kemore Gamble. 
Gamble, a four-star recruit from Miami, arrived in Gainesville 
this spring as an early enrollee.
Coach Jim McElwain 
raved about the 6-foot-3, 
240-pounder, stating his “hand-eye coordination” and “ball 
skills” were as good as anyone 2017 Florida Gators Position Previews: Tight End
BASEBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
One month might have passed since the Florida 
baseball team won its first national championship, 
but the Gators are still finding reasons to celebrate.
On top of being named coach of the year by 
Collegiate Baseball and D1baseball.com on June 30, 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan was named the Skip Bertman 
National Coach of the Year on Wednesday, his first time earning the honor.
“O’Sullivan’s club showed both heart and 
perseverance in bringing the school its first national championship,” said Mike Gustafson, president and CEO of the National College Baseball Hall of Fame and chair of the Bertman Award committee, in a release.
The award is given to the top coach across all 
levels of college baseball. Mike Dickson, for example, won the honor in 2013 as the coach of Gloucester County College.
The case O'Sullivan built for himself to receive 
the honor, however, goes far beyond clinching an NCAA title.
He led UF to its third straight 50-win season after 
finishing with a 52-19 record. In the College World 
Series, O'Sullivan’s pitching staff dominated, striking 
out 68 batters over six games.
What's even more impressive is how he managed 
to turn the team around following a slow start to begin the year.
The Gators were 13-8 in mid-March after getting 
swept by Auburn to start conference play. But the team bounced back the following week, defeating Stetson 9-8 in extra innings before winning two of O’Sullivan honored with Coach of the Year
Every meat-eating person knows one harsh truth: 
We don’t care how the sausage is made, and we prefer 
not to know. As long as the brats are delicious, who 
the hell cares?
Allow that blissfully ignorant thought to fade away 
as you read on.
When Gators receiver Antonio Callaway was 
accused of sexual assault in 2016, the star player was 
represented by attorney Huntley Johnson. The case was ultimately dismissed, and Callaway did not miss any playing time as a result.
Johnson has been called a “fixer” in a recent 
Chronicle of Higher Education story. He’s gotten cases of rape, assault and other serious accusations dismissed or had sentences reduced. He’s represented nearly 30 Gator football players since 1984. Former UF running 
back Chris Rainey said Johnson could “get you out of 
anything, everything.”
That shit needs to stop.That isn’t to say that anyone accused of crimes should UF’s defensive MVP 
doesn’t even play footballMorgan Meets The Eye / OpinionAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
DeAndre Goolsby runs out of bounds after catching a pass during UF's 30-3 win 
against Iowa at the Outback Bowl on Jan. 2, 2017, at Raymond James Stadium.
The Associated Press
Kevin O'Sullivan surveys the field during a game in the 2017 season. Florida's head coach received the Skip Bertman National Coach of the Year Award on Wednesday.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Morgan McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMuffinTHURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Day 4 of the 2017 FINA World 
Championships in Budapest, Hungary, 
was just another walk in the park for UF 
rising senior Caeleb Dressel—or at least it seemed that way.  
Dressel shattered the world record for 
the 4x100m mixed medley relay by over a second and a half with a time of 49.9 
seconds on Wednesday.
Dressel, who previously competed 
in the 2016 Olympics for the United States, also ﬁ  nished third in the 100m 
prelims and won his heat in the event’s semiﬁ  nals to earn the second seed in 
today’s ﬁ  nal round.
For rising sophomore Liliana Szilagy, 
the Hungarian moved on to the 200m ﬂ  y semiﬁ  nals behind a preliminary 
time of 2:07.73 on Wednesday.  She then recorded a seventh-place ﬁ  nish 
of 2:07.67 in the semis to qualify for 
today’s ﬁ  nal round.
None of the other three Gators who 
competed on Wednesday moved past their respective semiﬁ  nal rounds.
Rising senior Mark Szaranek, 
representing Great Britain, swam the 200m ﬂ  y preliminary in 1:59.68, good enough to move on to the semiﬁ  nal 
round.
However, Szaranek lowered his time to 1:58.80 in the semis and was unable 
to make the cut for the ﬁ  nal round.
Enzo Martinez-Scarpe, another senior 
on Florida’s 2017 roster, ﬁ  nished 63rd overall in the prelims of the 100m free.  Martinez-Scarpe was clocked at 51.39 
seconds for Uruguay.
Carlos Omana ﬁ  nished 37th overall 
in the prelims of the 200m individual medley with a time of 2:06.29.  Omana, 
swimming for Venezuela, was with the Gators from 2011-2015.
Only two Gators competed on 
Tuesday, Day 3 of the week-long competition.
Corey Main, a member of  UF’s swim 
team from 2013-2016, advanced for New Zealand from Monday’s 100m back 
preliminary round with a time of 53.76 
seconds.  
Main, a two-time All-SEC performer, 
then ﬁ  nished eighth in the ﬁ  nal round with a time of 53.87 seconds on Tuesday.
Rising senior Jan Switkowski, 
swimming for Poland, completed the 200m ﬂ  y preliminary in 1:56.23.  
Despite dropping his time by nearly 
half a second in the semiﬁ  nal round, Switkowski did not advance to the ﬁ  nals.
Day 5 of the international competition 
begins at 3:30 a.m. ET.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org   Dressel shines again on Day 4 of FINA World Championships
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel rests in the water during Florida’s 183-117 win against T ennessee on Jan. 28, 
2017, at the O’Connell Center.
SWIMMING & DIVING16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
on the team.
“He’ll be a factor,” McElwain said in 
March about Gamble. “The guy has got 
courage. He doesn’t back down.”
Predicted Starters: Goolsby, Lewis
Goolsby and Lewis both cracked the starting 
lineup at least 10 times last season. Nothing 
should change in 2017.
The two upperclassmen both possess good 
size at 6-foot-4 and have been reliable offensive 
weapons during their time at Florida.
Gamble should receive some opportunities 
at the position as well. The freshman led 
all tight ends with three catches for 14 yards 
during UF’s Orange and Blue Debut in April.
Stephens may get a snap or two as well 
from time to time, but expect Goolsby, Lewis 
and Gamble to serve as the primary players at 
tight end in 2017.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Lewis logged 184 receiving yards in 2016
three contests against LSU.
As the conference schedule progressed, 
the Gators kept winning, eventually 
entering a three-way tie with Kentucky and LSU for the SEC regular season 
championship one game into their ﬁ  nal 
weekend series against the Wildcats.
After losing to Kentucky in the series 
opener, Florida won the next two contests by scores of 14-3 and 6-4, respectively, to clinch its fourth conference title under O’Sullivan. 
But what helped set O’Sullivan apart 
from the rest was how he handled various 
injuries suffered by catcher Mike Rivera, 
third baseman Jonathan India, shortstop Dalton Guthrie and outﬁ  elders Ryan Larson and Austin Langworthy.
The 10-year head coach got creative 
with his lineup, switching between JJ Schwarz and Mark Kolozsvary at catcher and putting Christian Hicks all over 
the inﬁ  eld. If Schwarz was catching, 
Kolozsvary would DH and Hicks would play ﬁ  rst. If Kolozsvary was catching, Schwarz would play ﬁ  rst and Hicks would play shortstop or third base.
The strategy proved useful as it helped 
Florida to a 40-15 regular season record and a No. 1-seed in the SEC Tournament.
“It’s a long grind,” O’Sullivan said after 
clinching the SEC title. “I’m just happy for the players, the staff. There are so many things behind the scenes that have to go right to win any type of championship, let alone an SEC Championship.”
With wins against Auburn and Mississippi State in the the SEC Tournament, UF earned the No. 3-seed in the NCAA Tournament and would host a regional and a super regional.
And in Omaha, the Gators lost just 
one game en route to taking home the national championship trophy for the ﬁ  rst time ever in 103 years, a testament to how much work O’Sullivan put into his team.
In the end, UF's leader, a man who 
had previously won coach of the year only once in his career, was awarded the honor three times over the past month, a privilege well deserved by someone who's 
affectionately referred to by his fans as 
"Sully."
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
 
BASEBALL,  from pg. 14O'Sullivan led Florida to 52-19 recordsystem. 
There is not much in this world that will keep me 
from watching SEC football. God help my potential future wife should she go into labor during Iron Bowl weekend. If my dream job called me up during UF-
UGA, I’d let the phone ring the entire night while I 
force myself to listen to ‘Glory, Glory’ for the ﬁ  fty-gazillionth time.
But this habit of dismissing every alleged victim of 
sexual assault as liars and thieves is disgraceful to the 
institutions that we all claim to love, not to mention 
towards basic human decency.
Johnson is not without his own legal issues. In 
2001, the ﬁ  rst district court of appeals upheld a ruling 
against the attorney in a suit brought upon him by his former secretary.
Pamela Thigpen accused Johnson of assault, 
battery and false imprisonment. The decision revealed that Johnson allegedly repeatedly asked Thigpen for oral sex, at one point Johnson saying to Thigpen that 
she just wanted to “get down on his hog and honk it.” 
Thigpen won a $1 million judgement in the civil suit.
Nowadays, Johnson is ﬁ  lling public records 
requests, looking for dirt on the university’s inner workings. He’s the man who essentially exposed the payments for President Fuch’s pool and the porn-purchasing habits of former Title IX Coordinator Chris Loschiavo. 
This caught on after the university refused to 
issue $400,000 in payment for Johnson’s services of Callaway, among other requests that were apparently denied or ignored.
For whatever good comes of those public records 
requests, I’m not sure if it is worth having the man defend the next Aaron Hernandez (yup, he did). To make matters even more strange, Johnson doesn’t get paid by the university. He won’t disclose the fees he imparts for UF athletes - the NCAA prohibits pro bono 
work, and Johnson is not on retainer at UF.
As long as we enjoy the product without thinking 
about it, we can’t really be surprised when incidents 
like the Callaway case, heard by an adjudicator who’s a ﬁ  nancial booster of the football program, get dismissed. 
The sausage factory is alive and well despite the 
inﬁ  ghting. Link upon link is churned out, and we all still eat up every last morsel. We’re all hypocrites, and I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit to it. 
Morgan McMullen is a sports writer at the 
Alligator. His columns appear frequently on Tuesday 
and Thursdays. Contact him at mmcmullen@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
C'yontai Lewis ﬁ  ghts off a tackle during Florida's 20-7 win against South 
Carolina on Nov. 12, 2017, at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
