We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 76 FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
Gymnastics team hopes for better 
results
Jenny Rowland is hoping her team can rebound,pg. 14
Researchers link racism to high blood pressure 
African-Americans may be susceptible to the disease, pg. 4
UF to plan for bee lab, facility
University hopes to attract researchers, pg. 4Pulitzer Prize-winner comes to town
He will sign copies of his books Sunday, pg. 4
Pulitzer Prize-winner comes to town
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
Midtown businesses like Study 
Edge and Grill Fresh may see few-
er customers as the city begins an eight-month-long construction project.
The Gainesville Community Re-
development Agency announced its More in Midtown project Wednesday. Starting next week, Northwest First Avenue will be 
under construction until Fall 2017.
The renovation will include 
improvements to street lighting, 
infrastructure and increased on-street parking, wrote Tricia Lopez, a project manager for CRA, in an email.The project is expected to ﬁ  nish 
in September, and businesses will still be open during construction, 
she said.
“At times some businesses may 
only be accessible to pedestrians if 
the road in front of the business is closed,” Lopez said.
Funding will come from the 
property-tax increases in the CRA district, she said. 
Sarit Sela, the CRA project 
manager for More in Midtown, said the purpose of the project is to make the street more pedestri-
an-friendly. 
“We want to make it an exam-
ple of how a pedestrian street in 
Gainesville could work,” she said. 
Celine Bautista, a 21-year-old 
UF psychology senior, lives in Col-lege Park and did not know about the planned construction. 
She said she’s not looking for-ward to more building, but she’s interested in the improvements CRA plans to make.
“As a resident living in the area, 
it’s not too desirable, but as some-
body in Gainesville and somebody 
attending the university, being able to potentially purchase access to that parking — that would be great,” she said. 
@Mary-Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.orgCity announces 8-month Midtown construction project
THE ADVISING CENTER 
OPENED JAN. 3.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
At 4 p.m. Thursday, about 
eight students were waiting to 
see advisers as they sat on so-
fas and armchairs in the UF Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences’ Academic Advising Center’s new lobby.
They were among the ﬁ  rst to 
use the renovated Farrior Hall, which opened Jan. 3, said Joseph Spillane, the advising center’s director. The University Athletic 
Association, which shares Farrior Hall with the center, paid $25 mil-
lion for the renovations and con-struction of the connected Otis P. 
Hawkins Center for Academic and 
Personal Excellence, according to Alligator archives. 
All three ﬂ  oors of the build-
ing were renovated, Spillane said. 
The new space features new re-
search rooms, conference areas and a larger lobby. 
Sebastien Courty, a UF po-
litical science junior, said in the past, he waited up to an hour to see an adviser since his ﬁ  rst se-mester at UF. On Thursday, he waited for 20 minutes.
“It’s a lot more efﬁ  cient,” the Renovated advising 
center eases wait time
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
About 70 UF students sat in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Thursday night to discuss plans to rebuild their second homes on cam-pus.
The meeting, which addressed 
rebuilding La Casita and the Insti-tute of Black Culture, was hosted by the Hispanic Student Association and the Black Student Union. The project’s architects presented their ideas for the buildings and received students’ input about the institutes’ future. The architects, of engineering company DLR Group, visited cam-
pus Thursday to gather input from 
students outside the Reitz Union. 
The architects also met with 
the Multicultural and Diversity Af-fairs staff and student ambassadors to hear their ideas, said Mary Kay Carodine, the assistant vice presi-dent for Student Affairs. Construc-tion will begin in Summer and end 
Spring 2018. 
Chris Osore, a DLR group de-
signer and the project overseer, said 
each building will have at least two ﬂ  oors and an assembly area able to seat about 120 people. Both build-ings should include a living area, 
storage rooms, computer rooms, of-
ﬁ  ces and study rooms, but ﬁ  nal de-signs are not complete.
Although the buildings will have 
the same basic facilities, the design will be different for each group. 
“We’re trying to infuse the cul-
tural elements that make them unique,” Osore said. “The buildings 
will speak of the actual users.” 
Carodine said the buildings are 
being reconstructed because struc-
tural damage made them unsafe for students. “There are some issues in the 
houses, to say the least,” Carodine said. 
Both buildings, located on Uni-
versity Avenue, were built as houses in 1921. The halls were too narrow for wheelchairs, and the damaged wood of La Casita’s balcony had to be closed because it couldn’t hold more than a few students at a time, she said. 
Carodine said the building’s size 
will be doubled, from about 3,000 
square feet to 6,000 square feet. 
Because of the larger size, the 
budget increased in December from 
$3.2 million to $5.2 million, she said. The construction will be ﬁ  nanced by the Capital Improvement Trust Fund, which is funded through stu-dent fees and is designated for build-ings used by students.
Carodine said the buildings will 
have elevators and larger bathrooms with multiple stalls. 
Sophia Visent, a UF business 
sophomore, said she visited La Ca-sita often. She attended the meeting so she could have a say in the proj-ect. 
“These are our second homes, 
in a sense,” the 19-year-old said. “I 
feel appreciative of the fact that they 
held this meeting for us and that they, overall, wanted our opinion.”
@taveljimena
taveljimena@uﬂ  .edu
Students discuss renovation of oﬀ  -campus cultural hubsAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
More than 40 students stand in line at Farrior Hall on Thursday afternoon seeking academic advising 
for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
 SEE ADVISING,  PAGE 4It aims for pedestrian-friendly streets
Construction will begin in SummerWHAT’S HAPPENING? 
First GatorNights of 2017
Tonight, GatorNights is celebrat-
ing the new year. The first 300 students to check in and head to the Reitz Union food court will 
receive a voucher to the Stuff-a-
Penguin event from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. From 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. there will be a musical performance by Angie Keilhauer, an interna-tional touring artist from Georgia. GatorNights will also screen “The Magnificent Seven,” which will play at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
GatorNights will also offer a hip-hop fitness class from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom. The event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the 
event.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes to 
the University Gallery
Gainesville cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from January to March. The festi-val features more than 20 events. 
Cuban muralists, dancers, musi-
cians, authors and academics are among those who are featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until  Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the Gary 
R. Libby Gallery. The University 
Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, the curator of the Popular Culture Collections at Smathers Library, on Jan. 13 from noon to 1 p.m.  All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!” 
visit arts.ufl.edu.
Learn basic Arabic at the 
Headquarters Library starting 
in JanuaryArabic for Adults will be taught at the Alachua County Library District starting Wednesday. An experienced teacher who is 
a native speaker will conduct 
classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m  Wednesdays. Registration is not required. These classes offer a chance to learn the basics. For more information about library programs, visit aclib.us/events or contact Nickie Kortus at 352-334-3909 or nkortus@aclib.us.
UF School of Art and Art History 
presents Visiting Artist Lecture with Arthur Ou on Jan. 12The UF School of Art and Art History is presenting artist Arthur Ou as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series on Jan. 12 at 6 p.m. in the School of Music Building, Room 101. Ou 
works in photography, painting, 
sculpture and installation. Ou will give a lecture about contempo-rary art and culture as it relates to national and international trends. For more information about the Visiting Artist Lecture Series, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day event Jan. 21Collectors from across the region will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors during the 38th Collectors Day on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the museum’s longest-run-
ning public program, allowing 
guests to interact with collec-tors and learn about the context and historical significance of their collections. Attendees will be able to view classic cars, ste-reoscopes, Pokémon, Legos and more. The registration deadline to display collections is Jan. 14. 
Participation at the event is free. 
For more information on registra-tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collectors-day-registration or call 352-273-2061.
‘Wicked Plants’ exhibit closes 
Jan. 15The Florida Museum of Natural 
History’s “Wicked Plants: The 
Exhibit” closes Jan. 15. Museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/wickedplants.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28
Beginning Jan. 28, Florida 
Museum of Natural History visi-tors will be able to get up close and personal with big, loud and even poisonous frogs in the mu-seum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Showcasing various species of frogs and toads, “Frogs” is the 
most advanced traveling frog ex-hibition in the country. Guests may view tree frogs, bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant toads and poi-son dart frogs.The museum will host a public opening celebration that includes a Froggy 5K race Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early reg-
istration through Jan. 24 or $15 
for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registra-tion is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to reg-ister for the race, visit ﬂ  mnh.uﬂ  .edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students; $5 for children aged 3 to 17; and free to museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. The Florida 
Museum will display “Frogs!” 
through Sept. 4.
Paddle Florida announces 
Great Calusa Blueway trip in Southwest FloridaPaddle Florida’s Great Calusa Blueway trip will explore the history, culture and beauty of 
Southwest Florida waterways 
Feb. 11 to Feb. 17. This 57-mile paddling adventure traverses Lee County’s creeks, rivers and bays, where paddlers will explore mangrove tunnels and aquatic reserves. The registration dead-line is Jan. 28. The trip fee is $700 per person, with discounts 
for seniors, college students and 
children. The fee covers camping, meals, gear and personal shuttles, evening programming and water-way guides. Since the trip will traverse open waters of the Gulf’s back bays, Paddle Florida recom-mends sea kayaks at least 16 feet in length equipped with a rudder 
or skeg and spray skirt. For more 
trip details and registration, visit paddleflorida.org. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTION: 
Innovation Academy Serve cre-
ated and hosted a Welcome to the Gator Nation event in partnership with the Campus Diplomats, the Innovation Leadership Program, IA Leadership Enhancement 
and Development, Towers 
Area Government, the David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service and the IA Living Learning Community. The Alligator reported otherwise in a photo caption published Jan. 4.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 76
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  75° LOW  51°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris   
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandFRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
CITRUS CROPS HAVE 
BEEN STEADIL Y DYING 
SINCE 2005. 
By Jamie Shapiro 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
While one of Florida’s most 
marketed crops declines, UF re-
searchers hope tea can ﬁ  ll in the gap left by the depleted citrus in-dustry. 
Since 2005, Florida’s citrus 
crop output has been steadily de-creasing due to citrus greening, a disease which rots the trees, said Brantlee Spakes Richter, a senior lecturer in the UF plant pathology department.
Richter, and UF doctoral 
student James Orrock are now 
tasked with studying tea’s plaus-
ability as an alternative.
“The good thing about tea is 
that it’s a commodity crop,” said Orrock. “So you have a bunch of different prices and markets to hope for.”In May 2016, the two research-
ers helped plant eight strains of camellias, which is the plant tea comes from, to see how they would fare in Florida’s climate, Richter said. 
Some of the eight strains of 
tea that they are studying have thrived, but a few have come 
close to dying off, Richter said.
 A few strains were expected 
to not survive due to their genetic 
makeup, she said. 
Although introducing tea 
into Florida’s ecosystem has the potential to bridge the gap left by the dying citrus crops, U.S.-grown tea will likely never be 
cheaper than existing tea prices, 
Orrock said. 
As of now, researchers are still 
unsure of tea’s future as a crop in Florida, but some tea strains give them hope, Ritcher said.  
“We’re not really sure yet 
where Florida will come in yet in this playing ﬁ  eld,” she said. UF researchers look 
for citrus alternative
GAINESVILLE DRIVERS 
SEEM TO GET THE 
MESSAGE.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
As the Florida Highway Pa-
trol uses billboards and pamphlets 
to remind drivers to move over for stopped emergency vehicles, Gainesville seems to have received 
the message.
Over the past four years, the Flor-
ida Department of Highway Safety 
and Motor Vehicles has reported 663 crashes, 239 injuries and three deaths because of drivers who ne-glected to move over or slow down for a stopped emergency vehicle. The Move Over, Florida! campaign was designed to decrease the num-ber of unnecessary accidents and 
keep emergency workers safe.
Of the 5,518 Move Over tickets 
given in 2016, Gainesville Police 
spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said 
the department has only issued four.
“We always remind everyone 
that us and (Emergency Medical Services) have a difﬁ  cult job when 
we’re out there on the roadways, 
and we always appreciate when 
folks do move over or slow down,” 
Tobias said. 
FHP spokeswoman Sgt. Kim 
Montes said many violations go 
unreported because they’re hard to enforce. 
To issue a ticket, an ofﬁ  cer must 
prove a driver did not decrease their 
speed.
“If we don’t have the speed of the 
vehicle, we cannot say for sure they may not have complied with the 
second part of the Move Over law,” 
Montes said. 
Although the amount of each ci-
tation varies by county, she said they 
usually cost more than $100. 
“Whether we’re out helping 
someone change a tire or disabled 
vehicle, as a pedestrian on a road-
way we’re very vulnerable to get 
struck,” Montes said.
@molly_vossler
mollyvossler@alligator.orgFHP asking drivers to move over
Jamie Shapiro / Alligator
Researchers are growing potted camellias to determine if tea could be used as an alternative to Florida’s depleting citrus crops. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
DAY AT DEPOT
Five-year-old Elayna Suggs and 3-year-old Elias Suggs race down a slide on the playground at Depot Park in southeast Gainesville on Thursday. Elayna and Elias’ grandparents took the siblings out for a day at the park. “This is fun, ” Elias yelled.
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
THE DRIVER WAS TAKEN 
TO SHANDS AND IS IN 
STABLE CONDITION. 
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital after his car and a 
Walmart semitruck collided at the intersection of U.S. Route 441 and County Road 234 on Thursday, the 
Florida Highway Patrol said.
The semitruck was traveling 
north on U.S. 441 in the right lane 
when the driver of a white Mercedes traveling east on County Road 234 cut across the intersection and into the left side of the truck at about 4:55 p.m., FHP Trooper Rick Brown said. The car’s airbags deployed, and the 
driver was taken to Shands, where 
he remains in stable condition.The car hit the truck and spun 
into the median, leaving debris scat-tered across the two northbound lanes of U.S. 441, Brown said. The truck made a controlled stop further up the road.
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, 
Alachua County Fire Rescue and FHP responded to the scene of the accident.
Brown estimates $10,000 worth 
of damage to the truck. He said the car was totaled and towed from the scene. 
Wreckage did not block either 
lane, and traffic was able to clear quickly — within about five min-utes, he said. 
As of press time, an investiga-
tion of the crash is still ongoing. No charges have been made.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgFHP: Car totaled, driver hurt after collision with semitruck
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator
The Mercedes involved in the crash sits in the median of U.S. Route 441. The driver was taken to UF 
Health Shands Hospital and remains in stable condition.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff
UF researchers have linked the ef-
fects of racism to high blood pressure in 
African-Americans — and determined that addressing inequity may reverse the 
trend.
The findings were made by Clarence 
Gravlee, a UF professor in the Department 
of Anthropology, along with Connie Mul-ligan, a UF professor in the Department of Anthropology, specializing in genetics.
 Gravlee, who has worked on compil-
ing the research for the past 10 years, pub-lished the findings in December. 
Previous research showed high blood 
pressure is 50-percent more common among African-Americans than white Americans, Gravlee said. Gravlee and Mulligan’s study shows that facing dis-crimination and watching others face op-pression can cause high blood pressure, rather than genetic predispositions within 
the black community.  
“We now have evidence that people’s 
health is harmed not just by what happens 
to them directly, but also by the existence of racism in the broader society,” he said. 
Some African-Americans seem to have 
genes that make them more susceptible to the harmful effects of racism, which can be triggered by systemic racism, he added.  
“Some of those differences are due 
to different genes that people have, but those genes are not patterned by racial groups,” he said.  
More research should be done on the 
health effects of African-Americans who 
watch strangers face discrimination, such 
as videos of police brutality, he said. He believes addressing systemic racism would reduce health issues in African-Americans, as well as raise their life ex-pectancy.
“I think it’s a moral problem as well 
that that kind of inequality exists in our society,” he said. 
Bahasi Chapman, a UF Black Affairs 
ambassador, said she’s always known discrimination plays a role in the health of 
African-Americans.
“It’s not really a surprise,” the 19-year-
old UF criminology and law and African-
American studies sophomore said.
As a black woman, she said even if she 
became a successful CEO, she would face discrimination in her everyday life.
“It doesn’t matter how far you rise up, 
it’s still going to affect your health,” she 
said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Study shows systemic racism 
impacts health of African-Americans
ROBERT OLEN BUTLER WILL SPEAK 
ABOUT HIS LATEST BOOK AT 
HEADQUARTERS LIBRARY.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
A Pulitzer Prize-winning author is reading at the 
Alachua County Headquarters library Sunday. 
Robert Olen Butler, 71, will read 
excerpts from his latest novel, “Per-
fume River,” answer questions and 
sign books at the 401 E. University Ave. location beginning at 2:30 
p.m.
The event will be the first in the 
Alachua County Library District’s 
third annual Author Series, which 
brings a wide variety of award-winning authors to 
Gainesville, said Nickie Kortus, the library’s market-
ing and public relations manager.
“It’s a great opportunity to meet an author and ask 
your own questions,” Kortus said.
Butler said before publishing “Perfume River,” a 
novel that was long-listed for the 2017 Carnegie Med-al of Excellence for Literature in September, he liked all of his work equally. But now, his latest work is his favorite, he said.
“‘Perfume River’ is a novel about my boomer gen-
eration, about our wars and our families, and how those things interact and intertwine. It’s about the past, and how it’s always with us.”
In 1993, Butler was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for 
fiction for his collection of short stories. The stories drew from Butler’s experience in Vietnam serving with the U.S. Army in 1971.
“I just immersed myself, because I was deeply in 
love with Vietnam — its people, its landscape, its cul-ture, its history,” Butler said.
The author’s appearance in Gainesville — his first 
in more than a decade — is one of the last stops on 
his book tour.
“Creating works of literary fiction is a very intense, 
solitary act, and it’s always a pleasure for me to get 
out and read to and have contact with my readers, my potential readers,” he said.
@molly_vossler
mollyvossler@ufl.eduPulitzer winner 
to visit GNV
Butler
20-year-old said. “It’s a lot neater in the 
inside, too.”
Spillane said wait times during 
the drop/add period have already de-creased this semester, and he expects they’ll continue to go down because of the new space. He said he hopes it will 
allow him to hire more advisers in the 
future.
Spillane said the average wait time 
during the drop/add period last Spring was 49 minutes. This Spring, the aver-
age time, as of Thursday, has been 29 
minutes.
“We’re really thrilled,” Spillane said. 
“It’s (a) more attractive space and more 
comfortable space than it was before.”  
Patreis Young, a UF microbiology 
and cell science freshman, said she 
liked the appearance of the new center. 
“There are glass doors, and they 
have nice chairs,” she said. “I like it a lot.” 
Young, 19, went to the center Thurs-day morning at 8:10 a.m. and waited 
an hour until she had to leave for class. 
She came back in the afternoon for an additional 25 minutes before seeing an adviser, but Young said she didn’t mind the wait.“It’s okay, especially during add/
drop week,” she said. “It’s understand-able why it took so long.” 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
ADVISING,  from pg. 1The average wait time fell from last Spring
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Students wait to be called by an academic adviser inside the newly renovated 
Farrior Hall. The addition of the Otis P . Hawkins Center for Academic and Personal Excellence and the renovation cost $25 million.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
Meet the Editors
Petrana Radulovic is a 
21-year-old English and computer science se-
nior from Boca Raton, 
Florida, and this is her 
first semester as opinions edi-tor. In the future, she tells her 
parents and concerned family 
members, she hopes to work in editing, publishing or soft-ware and web design. She tells herself that she hopes to be a 
widely successful novelist by 
the time people stop asking her about her future plans. In actu-ality, she knows she’s probably 
going to be writing a lot of lis-
ticles. When she’s not reading other people’s opinions, she’s usually writing things that no one will read, things that peo-
ple will read and things that 
only a select group of online people will read — or, possi-bly, writing some lines of code. 
Basically, she’s writing on her 
laptop, in her journal or on the corner of a napkin somewhere. If you have an opinion you feel strongly about, you can contact 
her at opinions@alligator.org 
or tweet her at @petradulovic. Martin Vassolo is a 21-year-old (hold my beer) UF journalism 
senior in his fourth 
semester at the Al-
ligator, where he began as a general-assignment and crime 
reporter before becoming the 
metro editor — and now, editor-in-chief. A son to an immigrant father and mother from Argen-tina, Vassolo grew up in Miami 
as the first person in his family 
born in the U.S. After taking an internship at the South Florida Sun Sentinel last summer, Vasso-
lo will be interning at the Miami 
Herald this summer, covering all the breaking news and general-assignment work the Magic City has to offer. When not sulking 
behind a desk or putting out 
newsroom fires, Vassolo can be found listening to his vinyls, pet-ting strangers’ dogs or staring 
at his Twitter feed. Feel free to 
send tips or critiques about the newspaper to Vassolo’s work email, editor@alligator.org, or tweet him at @martindvassolo.
Managing Print EditorMelissa Gomez is a 20-year-old UF jour-nalism junior in 
her fourth semes-
ter at the Alliga-
tor. As managing print editor, she spends her nights piecing 
together the articles into the 
printed version you see every day. Previously, Gomez in-terned at Naples Daily News, in her hometown of Naples, Flor-
ida, and this past summer, she 
traveled to Sin City to intern at the Las Vegas Review-Journal, where she covered stories in 
casinos she wasn’t old enough 
to gamble at. Raised by a single mother and two older sisters, she’s learned that women are capable of just about anything, 
like reviving the journalism in-
dustry. When she’s not drink-ing a hazelnut iced latte from Karma Cream, she’s playing 
soccer or her yellow ukulele. 
She welcomes story ideas and cat memes at mgomez@alliga-tor.org, or tweet her at @melis-sagomez004. 
Caitlin Ostroff is a 20-year-old UF jour-nalism and political 
science senior in her 
fourth semester at 
the Alligator. When she’s not tweeting out our daily stories 
or interacting with readers on 
Facebook, you can find her filling up the office chocolate jar or baking her stress away. Back home in Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, she spends time tak-
ing pictures with her chocolate Labrador, Lucy, and her yellow Labrador, Honey. At the Alliga-
tor, Ostroff has covered every-
thing from UF’s Student Gov-ernment to Gainesville crime.  Following an internship at the Sarasota Herald-Tribune, Os-
troff will be spending this sum-
mer as a metro intern at the Mi-ami Herald. A self-proclaimed data and coding nerd, she’s 
constantly looking for new 
ways to show and tell stories. She welcomes all ideas, cri-tiques and chocolate Labrador retriever photos at costroff@
alligator.org, or tweet her at @
ceostroff. 
Editor-In-Chief
Managing Online Editor Opinions Editor@martindvassolo
editor@alligator.org@melissagomez004
mgomez@alligator.org
@petradulovic
opinions@alligator.org@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgCaitlin Ostroff Petrana RadulovicMartin Vassolo Melissa GomezThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORAs we all brace ourselves for the bitter Gainesville cold, 
the oncoming onslaught of allergy season and the general cha-
os, mess and strain that is Spring semester (seriously, why is Spring always so much more intense than Fall?), let us take a moment to brush away our stacks of syllabi and newly pur-chased school supplies and go over the ﬁ  rst Spring edition of...
Darts & Laurels
Let’s start with something completely trivial in order to ease 
into the new year. In a move that no one really asked for, Pixar  
and Walt Disney Pictures are set to release “Cars 3” this sum-
mer. “Cars 2” is the only Pixar movie thus far to ever receive a “Rotten” score on movie-rating website Rotten Tomatoes, so it seems like a strange move. Perhaps it’s for the nostalgia factor? After all, children and young adults alike were excited for last summer’s “Finding Dory.” You’d think that, perhaps, visiting an old movie for the third time, the big shots at Disney and Pixar would know how to balance their new and old audiences, as they so masterfully did in “Toy Story 3.” But plot details released to Entertainment Weekly have revealed that “Cars 3” is going to be about entitled millennial cars. Yes. Millennial cars, according to Entertainment Weekly. So a dart to Pixar for giving us another 
reason not to see the sequel to the sequel that no one asked for.
Keeping in the entertainment sphere, let’s look at Twitter, 
which has been bubbling with excitement since the beginning of 2017. “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” actor Diego Luna tweeted a heartfelt story about a father who was deeply moved that a Mexican was the star of a Star Wars movie. Twitter user Kale Salad started an account dedicated to retweeting memes from their original sources (instead of reposting them as most “fa-mous” Twitter users do) and turned into an overnight Twitter hit. And, perhaps most importantly, the queen of Twitter herself, Kim Kardashian, has broken her social-media silence for the ﬁ  rst time since her traumatic Paris robbery, posting a sweet family picture. So a laurel to Twitter for reminding us that there still 
is good in this world.
Fox News Channel anchor Megyn Kelly announced she 
will leave the network for NBC News, where she will head her own show. Fans of Kelly support her decision, although close followers of Fox News are wishing her good riddance for leaving them to join the “liberal media.” Whatever your personal stance on Kelly’s move is, we can agree she has remained classy, con-trolled and professional amid intense criticism from both sides of the political spectrum and vulgar words from a certain president-elect, especially when she spoke up in the midst of the sexual-harassment scandal involving Fox News’ co-founder and former chairman Roger Ailes. Thus, we bestow a laurel to Kelly for her 
professionalism and for moving forward in her career.
And lastly, let’s end with something that’s not trivial. Earlier 
this week, House Republicans voted to severely diminish the Ofﬁ  ce of Congressional Ethics, which is made up of an outside board and has been called overzealous by both Democrats and Republicans alike, according to The New York Times. This ofﬁ  ce takes anonymous complaints from citizens, investigates them and then reports them to the House Ethics Committee if they ﬁ  nd something incriminating. And because the ofﬁ  ce is independent and unafﬁ  liated, it has no bias in reporting what it ﬁ  nds. We don’t know about you, dear reader, but we consider ethics, espe-cially those of elected ofﬁ  cials, to be pretty darn important, so the whole move to create a less zealous ethics committee that would be completely overseen by elected and afﬁ  liated ofﬁ  cials seems a bit…Well, we’re giving a dart to whoever thought that was a good move.  Although the movement has backed down some-what, there’s still tension in the House. But then again, when isn’t there?
Focus on the positives as we move into 2017
I was going to write a year in review. I was 
going to write about how crazy 2016 was with all of the atrocities that plagued our 
world, from our nation’s deadliest mass 
shooting in Orlando to everything that 
has been happening in war-torn Aleppo. I was going to write about how we lost pop-
ular-culture icons every month, from David 
Bowie in January to Debbie Reynolds at the tail end of December, and then we had an orange one elected to be president of the U.S. in between. I could have written all about every single 
bad thing that happened last year. I was going to, but 
then I realized that by doing that, I would be focusing on only the negative things that happened. 
By no means should any of the things I mentioned be 
discredited. We still need to do all that we can to right the wrongs and learn from our own mistakes and the mistakes of others to collectively move forward and pre-vent further tragedies and injustices. But, also, we must bear in mind that there has been a lot of good among 
the bad. On a global scale, the ozone layer has started 
its healing process. Medical marijuana was legalized in Florida. Leonardo DiCaprio ﬁ  nally won his ﬁ  rst Oscar. People stood their ground at Standing Rock Indian Res-
ervation, and protests in solidarity around the nation 
and were heard. President Barack Obama cracked some solid dad jokes on Thanksgiving Day.
On a personal level, last year held so many memo-
rable experiences for me. I took a trip to New Orleans 
to celebrate Mardi Gras and a close friend’s birthday. I 
adopted a tiny, shy kitten who is now fat, happy and comfortable enough to try to square up with my room-mate’s Great Dane. I also got a tattoo of my cat getting 
abducted by an alien spaceship. My band played some 
really great shows and helped introduce me to some of the greatest people I’ve met. I started to try to grow as a person, especially since I’ve ofﬁ  cially given up on trying to grow in height. My friends inspired me so much last year, even the one 
who told me to “write about how everything 
is terrible, but I’m amazing” when I couldn’t get past my writer’s block (and to think I al-most listened to him). I spent the last mo-
ments of 2016 and welcomed the new year 
with people I love, and I hope to spend 2017 making even more memories with them.
Sometimes we’re so distracted by all the 
terrible things that go on that we don’t allow ourselves to appreciate something good when it happens. I can’t tell you what to do, but it might be beneﬁ  cial if we all do what we can to be happier this year. Call it a New Year’s resolution if you want. If you’re unhappy with 
a piece of news, do all you can to do something about 
it. Donate to good causes, and call or write letters to elected ofﬁ  cials. You know the drill. If you’re feeling unhappy and can’t ﬁ  gure out why, please see a doc-
tor. They might be able to help you medicinally or help 
you ﬁ  nd natural remedies. Smile at passersby. Say “no” more. Or say “yes.” Go out of your way to pet some dogs. Try not to get hung up on celebrity drama. Most importantly, let’s try not to repeat the mistakes we’ve 
made. Welcome 2017, welcome the new semester and 
welcome the new experiences that lie ahead.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Alexa DeLoera
opinions@alligator.org
“Go out of your way to pet 
some dogs.”FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Like every great work of academic lit-
erature, I’ll begin with the superﬂ  uous introduction to what lies ahead.
Chapter One: My name is Max, and 
you’ll ﬁ  nd my columns on Fridays 
throughout the semester. I enjoy surﬁ  ng, being outdoors and pretending to read 
Ernest Hemingway over a hot cup of coffee. 
That’s the concise, print-limited version of myself. On to Chapter Two. 
University students are held captive by 
the courses they take. A textbook, for most 
classes, is the only true key to academic 
success. The expensive material that lies between the pages of a course’s mandatory book can be the sole means for a college-
level education. What more can the aspiring 
student do but face the list of required mate-rials with an open wallet? 
I’ve spent a total of $250.84 on used and 
rented textbooks for the Spring semester. 
Compared to last year’s barrage, I consider 
myself lucky for dodging this year’s unavoid-able ﬁ  nancial bullet. A receipt or order conﬁ  rmation of more than $500 is hardly unheard of at the 
university level. 
Over the past decade, print 
companies have fed off the im-
prisoned ambitions of the feeble-
minded college student at a rapid-
ly increasing rate. A study by the Student Public Interest Research Groups reported that the price of college textbooks has risen 73 percent over 
the last 10 years. Over the course of just one 
decade the monetary bridge to education has stretched to even larger distances, quickly becoming unattainable for some students. 
It is unsurprising that this issue exists; a 
market owned by only a handful of printing companies can limit selection and regulate prices as it sees ﬁ  t. Students are left with no choice but to read the “chosen book” that 
has been granted the responsibility of edu-
cating the masses on any given topic. Effec-tive learning stems from the col-lection of several sources, authors and vantage points — not one 
drawn-out school book that costs 
50 cents per page.
Although invaluable, the books 
necessary for a proper education 
should not be coming with a $427 
price tag (Reginald H. Garrett’s “Biochemistry, Fifth Edition”). Students who already struggle 
with tuition, rent and food costs need not 
bear the burden of the inﬂ  ation of a required 
textbook.  
The desperation is made clear via online 
textbook exchanges, often found on social 
media websites, that display the absurdity 
of these high prices in its simplest form. Stu-dents creatively duck the problem of expen-sive books through resale and barter, doing whatever it takes to save money.
Ideally, an effective trading system at this 
university should be implemented in order to help disadvantaged students pay for edu-cational materials. An opportunity for stu-dents to pay for books through volunteer 
hours or donations would help to solve an 
ever-growing ﬁ  nancial outcry. 
But for now, to alleviate the blow of 
pricey paper, consider buying used books, 
renting or searching the library for a copy 
of your required text. Rental websites like Chegg and Amazon can save hundreds of precious dollars for the careworn college student. The certainty of high textbook pric-
es calls for alternative means of access to 
higher learning.
It is important, of course, to actually 
use these materials once they’ve been pur-
chased. With the sharp rise in the prices of 
these required books, one can only gain a larger appreciation for their value and sig-niﬁ  cance in furthering the growth of knowl-edge. 
Max Chesnes is a UF journalism sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays. 
During my time on campus thus far, I have come across very few indi-viduals who have no desire to ever 
leave Florida. About 97 percent of 
UF students come from Florida, and 
many of the other 3 percent have lived in 
Florida in the past or have close family in-
state, according to Study Point, a college-admissions website. As the premier univer-sity in this wonderful state, UF’s reputation 
dominates all markets up and down the 
peninsula. However, many students enter-
tain the thought of starting their careers 
elsewhere. This is completely normal, as it is natural for young people to desire new landscapes, people and environments, but 
the level of longing for new sights and 
sounds seems to vary greatly among indi-viduals.
For some, taking occasional vacations to 
other states and countries is enough to sat-
isfy this urge. For many others, the idea of 
beginning life anew and away from all that is familiar in the Sunshine State can be compelling.
There is no doubt I would con-
sider myself in the latter group. To me, life is just too tragically brief to spend an entire lifetime 
comfortably situated in one place. 
The problem I face, however, is the incessant inquiring of wheth-er I am right in believing my 
group is “the best.” Is there something that 
the never-leave-Florida group knows that 
I do not? Is there something critical about 
Florida that I am possibly missing in my considerations?
I am often reminded by others of the fact 
that millions of Americans save up their earnings in order to ﬂ  y south just to spend a few days in Florida, whether that be sipping smoothies by the beach or sweating with Mickey Mouse. For decades upon decades, 
Florida has been a red-hot destination for 
people all over this great continent. Am I, someone who has only experi-enced snow a couple of times, naive for thinking there are tons 
of states as or more appealing 
than the 27th? Should the fact I was raised in a city that millions 
from around the world visit tell 
me something?
Sometimes, I get discouraged 
by the fact that the U.S. is just too 
vast, making it physically impossible to ex-
perience all of it in a single lifetime. Some 
days I want to start a life in a coastal city 
in New England, and other days I wonder what life is like on the much laxer Paciﬁ  c coast. The more places I learn of, the lon-
ger my list of possible homes grows, yet the 
same question always remains: no matter where I end up, will I eventually long to re-turn home? Will I be hit with the realization that I had it great growing up in Florida, and 
that it was stupid of me to ever leave in the 
ﬁ  rst place?Maybe.Maybe I’m very, very wrong and Florida 
is, in fact, the place for me. But how will 
I ever know if I do not at least try to ex-
ist somewhere else? If I do not move away, even if just for a little while, then I will nev-
er be entirely sure of this state.
Florida is dreadfully ﬂ  at, hellishly hot 
and, in some places, only a suffocating, hu-
mid swamp. It is home to some truly psy-
chotic people, absurd newspaper headlines 
and a large mouse that dominates most of 
the economy. It is one of those states that 
people either love or hate.
Florida may be many things, but one of 
those things is home.
So, Florida, if I leave you and think I 
found someone better, do not lament me, because there is a very good chance I will eventually, when all is said and done, re-turn home. I am rather sure of this.
Andrew Hall is a UF management ju-
nior. His column appears on Fridays.Nothing in life is certain but death — and ever-inflating textbook prices
Should I stay or should I go: resisting the urge to live in Florida foreverColumn
ColumnMax Chesnes
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
Tick tock
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve water
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Leon Haley is bringing more 
than 26 years of medical expe-
rience to UF’s College of Medi-cine-Jacksonville.
Haley, who began working 
as the new dean of the college Jan. 1, said he wants to help provide care for people who may not have access to high-
quality medical services, while 
also training the next generation of doctors and nurses.
“I’m very excited to be here,” 
Haley said. “I think UF’s College 
of Medicine-Jacksonville was a 
unique opportunity to continue to develop this organization’s growth in clinical care.” 
Before coming to UF, Haley 
served as an executive associate dean at Emory University and as  chief of emergency medicine for Grady Health System, a safety-
net hospital. Safety-net hospitals 
take care of populations unable to afford much of their health care, Haley said. 
After deciding to go into 
emergency medicine 26 years ago,  Haley said he’s dedicated his career to providing high-quality clinical care for all.
“One of the unique things 
about emergency medicine is that we see people in all walks of life,” Haley said. “They may be black, white, rich, poor and 
we learn to take care of every-
one as excellent as we can, re-gardless of who they are.”
As dean, Haley wants to 
continue practicing that level of 
care. 
“This institution has a 
unique position of providing 
cutting-edge clinical care, criti-
cal clinical care, but also serving 
a vulnerable population,” Haley said.
He plans to work with Russ 
Armistead, the CEO of UF 
Health Jacksonville, to continue 
the hospital’s work in the com-munity. Armistead said the hos-pital deals with a large number of uninsured patients. 
“He has that experience, 
and it should be just a breath of fresh air for us, and a new set 
of eyes looking at what we do, 
and hopefully help us do things 
better,” Armistead said.
 
@romyellenbogen 
romye@alligator.org
College of Medicine-Jacksonville welcomes new dean
Haley
By Paige Fry                            
and Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writers
As honeybee colonies in Florida 
decline, UF is dedicating money 
and space to study the insect more seriously — and lure researchers to Gainesville.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences received a grant of $2 million from state legislatures to construct two buildings in order to expand research and education on bees, said Jamie Ellis, a UF associate professor in the Department of Ento-
mology and Nematology. In addition 
to the grant, the state required IFAS to give the project $500,000 and the Florida State Beekeepers Association to raise $200,000, which was donat-ed by a single beekeeper.
The facility’s proposed location is 
east of Steinmetz Hall, near the Flor-
ida Museum of Natural History, so 
researchers can use resources from the entomology and nematology de-partment, Ellis said, but the location has not yet been approved.
“We’re trying to make a one-stop 
shop for bee education,” Ellis said.
It will include teaching class-
rooms, areas for a bee hive and honey-making facility, laboratories, bee observation rooms and ofﬁ  ces for faculty and staff, said Kevin He-inicka, the director of IFAS Facilities Planning and Operations.
“We are hopeful we’ll be started 
by June, and it’ll take seven to nine months to complete,” Heinicka said. 
Ellis said he believes the new fa-
cility will attract researchers to UF. The state is the ideal spot for an advanced bee facility because the state’s temperatures allow for year-round beekeeping, he said.
“I really think we’re going to have 
people coming and using our facility all the time,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org UF plans lab, facility to 
expand bee research 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
A RELAXING READ
Ethan Katz, an 18-year-old UF political science freshman, takes a break from his day to read a novel 
by Christopher Hitchens on the hill outside of Cypress Hall on Thursday.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Tampa man and woman were found 
with fraudulent credit cards and copies of 
driver’s licenses not belonging to them in their car Wednesday, Florida Highway Patrol said.
At about 4:15 p.m., Ras-
kima Akeema Cortez, 28, was driving a white Ford Edge on Interstate 75 at the intersection of U.S. Route 441, with Tony Devon Wingﬁ  eld, 36, when they were pulled over for speed-ing, according to an FHP 
arrest  report.
Troopers smelled marijuana and searched 
the car, ﬁ  nding three bags of weed weigh-ing a total of 16 grams, according to the re-
port. Elsewhere in the car, troopers found 15 fraudulent credit cards.
FHP also found a laptop, credit card en-
coder and three copies of Florida driver’s licenses and social security numbers not be-longing to Cortez or Wingﬁ  eld, according to 
the report. 
Troopers arrested Cor-
tez on several charges, in-cluding fraud and forgery. They arrested Wingﬁ  eld on charges of fraud, forg-ery and marijuana posses-sion, among others.
Authorities took them 
to the Alachua County Jail, 
where they remain as of press time. Cortez is being held on $200,000 bond. Wingﬁ  eld is being held on $500,000 bond.FHP: 15 phony credit 
cards, weed found in car
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After a failed gas-station holdup, one 
man threw a wine bottle at a cashier’s face, 
Gainesville Police said.
At about 10:45 p.m., Mi-
chael Cordell Shade Sr., 26, 
and Tony Lamar Fleming, 
33, approached the clerk at a Citgo gas station, located at 809 N. Main St., accord-ing to a police report.
Shade demanded mon-
ey at gunpoint while Flem-ing stood guard. The man refused to give Shade money and ran away, 
according to the report.
Shade then picked up two bottles of wine 
and threw them at the clerk, hitting him once in the face, according to the report. On 
Wednesday, an ofﬁ  cer recognized the car used in the crime from surveillance footage. The driver and passenger admitted to provid-ing transport for the attempted heist.
Police arrested Fleming on Wednesday on 
charges of robbery with a deadly weapon and con-
spiring to commit armed robbery. They arrested Shade on Thursday on charges of robbery with a deadly weapon, posses-sion of a ﬁ  rearm by a con-victed felon and conspiring to commit armed robbery. 
Authorities took them to the Alachua County 
Jail, where they remain as of press time. Shade 
is being held on $1,000,000 bond. Fleming is being held on $800,000 bond.GPD: Clerk hit with wine 
bottle after failed heist
Fleming
 Shade
Cortez
Wingﬁ  eld
FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-22BR/1BA APTS ON UNIVERSITY AVEAcross from O'Connell Center. Modern, clean. Available January or earlier. $600/mo. K&M Properities 352-372-1509    1-9-16-5-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
LARGE 2 bedroom with wood floors located 
downtown. $1150/mth with utilities included. 
237 SW 2nd Pl. Call 870-2760     1-10-17-5-2
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th 
Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-4-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 FurnishingsFRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
GoAutoBid.com
Sell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647          1-6-1-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-11-17-5-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 
minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-11-17-5-15
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching 
& aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-13-17-8-
14
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMP
Get Stronger & Harder Immediately. Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Brochure: 1-800-354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com                  1-6-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305                 1-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Carnival Cruise
Line
headquarters
6 Net gain?
10 One often taking
a bow
14 How many
crosswords are
solved
15 Plot to plow16 Creepy look17 Bridge20 Young
Skywalker’snickname
21 “At Wit’s End”
columnistBombeck
22 Like Cheerios23 Bridge27 Liked a lot, with
“up”
28 Taqueria order31 A3 or Q734 Leave37 Whistle-blower38 Way around the
block?
40 Luau band41 Meatball medium43 Roll in the yard44 Inn crowd option47 Cause of some
closings
48 HBO drama set
in Baltimore
50 __ Friday’s52 Bridge58 Sultan Qaboos
Grand Mosqueprayer
60 Sci-fi navigator61 Gen __62 Bridge66 Number of times
a horse can enter
the KentuckyDerby
67 “Dies __”68 Copy, in a way69 Essen’s region70 Celebrate an
anniversary, say,
with “out”
71 Secretly watch
DOWN
1 Hebrew prophet2 Absurd3 __ fool4 Club __5 Take in6 Harmful ray type
7 More than 70%
of Earth’s surface
8 Lab greeting
9 “Ars gratia artis”
is written in anarc around hishead
10 Zoom along11 “Time for me to
split”
12 Smoke passage13 Gull relative18 Carrying, so to
speak
19 Hen holders
24 Common street
name
25 Strait-laced
26 __ ejemplo29 Geometric art
style
30 Several31 Start of a
subordinate title:Abbr.
32 “You meant 8
p.m. not a.m.?”
33 Vacation spot
with horsebackriding
35 Toon often seen
in a hunting hat
36 Shelled veggie39 “Jeopardy!”
staple
42 Flaws and all
45 Is for everyone?46 Bikini in the
Pacific, e.g.
49 It starts a bit
before Christmas
51 Astronauts’ gear53 Channel with a
“CongressionalChronicle” onlinearchive54 Kolkata cash55 Slangy refusal56 Wafer brand57 Place to find a
flag
58 Le Pew’s
defense
59 Dish list63 Limit64 Jackie O’s
second
65 “Shirt Front and
Fork” artist
By Gary Schlapfe and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/06/1701/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Bryan Shelton is leading 
the Florida men's tennis team into the Spring season starting today. Read a preview of the opening competition, pg. 15Junior defensive back declares for NFL Draft
In a letter posted on The Players' Tribune, junior defensive back Jalen 
"T eez" T abor revealed that he plans to leave UF early to enter the 2017 NFL Draft. Bleacher Report's Matt Miller predicts T abor will be taken early in the second round. By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
 
Alicia Boren sprinted forward toward the 
vault preparing to attempt a Yurchenko one-and-a-half twist.
Just one day earlier, in the NCAA Cham-
pionship semifinals, she had scored a 9.6875 with the same move. 
Now, with a crowd of 
more than 8,300 watch-ing and an NCAA title on the line, it was one of the most important moments of the freshman’s collegiate career.
She did a back hand-
spring onto the vault, rotat-ing backwards in the air.
But she didn’t get enough height and se-
verely under-rotated her body.
Then she fell.The mistake cost the Gators big.Her score, a 9.30, was the second lowest in 
the NCAA Championship Super Six on vault, rounding out a rough meet for the Gators.
Florida, the back-to-back-to-back national 
champions going in, squandered its chance of bringing another trophy home to Gainesville, 
finishing fourth and handing Oklahoma an 
easy victory.
A year earlier, Florida had trailed Utah go-
ing into the last rotation, but like they had done so many times before, they pulled out the come-from-behind victory.
History didn’t repeat itself in 2016.And while it may have been too much to ask 
of Jenny Rowland to win a national champion-
ship in her first year as head coach, Florida’s 
talented roster came out uncharacteristically flat and ended what could have been another championship season on a disappointing note.
Now, nearly nine months later, the Gators 
are ready to start back on their road to the NCAA championship.
See page 14 for a full beat previewUF gymnasts hoping to reboundSECOND CHANCES
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Gymnastics coach Jenny Rowland smiles during the NCAA Super Six on April 16. 
In her first year at UF, Rowland's team finished fourth nationally following three straight titles. This season, she wants her team back on top. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Coach Tim Walton claps during the UF softball team's game against Alabama on April 1. After a heartbreaking loss to end last season, Walton is trying to get his team back into championship form in 2017. 
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Pitcher Aleshia Ocasio stepped up to 
the rubber.
With only one runner on base and her 
team leading 2-1, she needed to force one 
more out.
One more out, and the Gators would 
extend their Super Regionals matchup 
against Georgia to a decisive third game later in the day.
Florida had already lost the first game 
in the best-of-three series. And to keep UF’s College World Series hopes alive, the sophomore pitcher had to retire pinch hit-
ter Kaylee Puailoa.
Ocasio already had two outs under 
her belt and a comfortable 0-2 count on 
Puailoa.
And just one strike away from a Game 
3, the Florida fans at Katie Seashole Press-ly Stadium were on their feet.  But Puailoa had different plans.The senior from Buena Park, Califor-
nia, sent the pitch — a riseball high over the plate — into center field, launching it over the wall and out of the park for a walk-off home run.
And with that, Florida’s hopes for a 
third-consecutive national championship were gone.
The Gators, the No. 1 seed entering Su-
per Regionals, did not reach the Women's College World Series for the first time since 2012.
And with a record of 22-2 at home, the 
loss to knock them out of the tournament 
was inconsistent with their otherwise 
dominant home performance.
But with four new faces to the roster, 
the Gators are ready to work toward bring-ing a third NCAA championship to the program.
See page 16 for a full beat previewWalton wants more in 2017
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
It was Chloe Jackson’s world, and the Flor-
ida women’s basketball team was simply liv-
ing in it on Thursday night.
The redshirt sophomore guard scored a 
career-high 34 points, including 21 in the first half, and dished out five assists, handing UF a 78-67 defeat against LSU at the Maravich Cen-ter in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The Gators (9-6, 0-2 Southeastern Con-
ference) struggled to generate anything of-fensively against the Tigers (12-3, 1-1 SEC), shooting a lackluster 38.5 percent from the floor while committing 28 turnovers.
Senior forward Ronni Williams notched 22 
points and 10 rebounds while junior forward Haley Lorenzen tallied 18 points and 12 re-bounds to both finish with double-doubles, but it wasn’t enough to keep UF from losing its fifth SEC road game over its previous seven contests.
LSU’s defense created problems early on 
for Florida.
The Tigers forced the Gators into commit-
ting 10 turnovers and held them to 31 percent shooting in the first quarter.
“We just turned the ball over too much,” LSU's Jackson dominates Gators in Baton RougeBoren
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: LSU 78, UF 67
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15THURSDAY'S TOP SCORERS
 
FLORIDA GATORS
• Ronni Williams – 22 points, 10 rebounds
• Haley Lorenzen – 18 points, 12 rebounds
 
LSU TIGERS
• Chloe Jackson – 34 points, 5 assists
• Raigyne Moncrief – 20 points, 10 stealsTHE WOLFPACK WENT 
15-2 LAST SEASON. 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Florida’s team theme in 2016 
was, “You are destined to go far.”
And they took it seriously.
That group went all the way 
to the end and was one of six 
teams that competed in the NCAA Championship.
Now, preseason No. 5 Florida, 
265 days removed from that last meet, has the opportunity to con-tinue its story on Sunday when it travels to N.C. State to open the 
2017 season. 
For the first time, the Gators 
will see what the team looks like 
in an authentic meet environ-
ment, where results really count.
“It’s just good to see where 
we have come throughout pre-
season,” junior Alex McMurtry said. 
“We have been working for 
five months to show, even (in) our first meet, what we are ready for. So I think that is what it’s 
all about: getting our nerves out, 
having fun and showing what it is like for the whole season.”
This season, Florida will get 
back its sole senior, Claire Boyce, 
after an offseason hip surgery 
kept her out her last year, forcing her to watch her team from the sidelines.
“Preseason was long but really 
fun, and I’m excited to get this season underway,” Boyce said.
“I have worked really hard to 
come back and my team has been 
there to support me and so have 
my coaches. And so I’m really excited to be able to come back 
from the injury and compete my 
last year.”
Boyce, along with juniors Ken-
nedy Baker, Grace McLaughlin, 
and McMurtry have led their un-
derclassmen teammates in the offseason and are now ready to start the season off right.
Though their first meet may 
be on the road, the team is also looking forward to competing in the newly renovated Exactech Arena at the O’Connell Center af-
ter nearly a year of construction.
“I get goosebumps every time 
I walk in,” second-year Florida 
coach Jenny Rowland said. 
“It’s an amazing experience al-
ready. I think the fans are going to be really excited.”
And while the Gators are pre-
paring for a long season, they 
aren’t overlooking the impor-
tance of their first meet against the Wolfpack on Sunday.
“The first meet, you have al-
ways got nerves, definitely a meet 
that we always learn from,” Row-
land said. 
“The girls are prepared. They 
are ready to go. The nerves will 
be there, but I think it will be a 
lot of fun.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
MATCH INFO
• Who: No. 5 Florida @ N.C. 
State
• When: Sunday @ 2 p.m.
• Where to Watch:  
ACC Network Extra, 
WatchESPNBy Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
2016 was both the beginning and the 
end of an era for gymnastics in Gainesville.
It was Jenny Rowland’s first season as 
head coach of the Gators — daunted with the task of replacing Ronda Faehn, who coached all three of Florida’s national 
championship teams.
It was also the end of a magical career 
for one of the most decorated Florida ath-
letes of all time.
Bridget Sloan — 2016 NCAA All-Around 
Champion and two-time Honda award win-
ner — graduated after four years of break-
ing records in an orange and blue leotard.
Entering the 2016 season after winning 
back-to-back-to-back NCAA Champion-
ships, the feeling around the program was 
national championship or bust.
And with those expectations, a first-year coach and a young, untested roster, 
Florida stumbled down the stretch.
For the first time in four years, Florida 
didn’t hoist the NCAA Championship tro-
phy in April, finishing fourth overall at the NCAA Super Six.
But while the Gators fell short of 
a four-peat last season, the reigning SEC champions have a deeper, more experienced roster that is poised to make 
another deep postseason run.
 “I think we have a lot of people that are 
a lot healthier this year,” junior Alex Mc-
Murtry said after an intrasquad scrimmage on December 8. 
“We can’t wait to have a strong team 
on vault and floor, which last year we 
had whoever could compete on vault and 
floor. I think we are looking really, really strong.”
McMurtry, a 10-time All-American, was 
the only gymnast in the nation to score multiple 10s on bars in 2016.
Now, with the departure of Sloan, along 
with seniors Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto, 
Morgan Frazier and Bridgette Caquatto, 
McMurtry along with fellow All-American junior Kennedy Baker are ready to lead their preseason No. 5 team to another 
NCAA title.
“I’m very impressed with the confi-
dence of the athletes,” Rowland said. “I 
think the confidence level is through the roof right now… We definitely have a lot more to work on but nothing that we 
are not capable of correcting. We are not 
ready to peak yet, so I’m very pleased with 
where they are.”
In addition to the eight returning ath-
letes, this season’s team features four ac-
complished freshmen.
Two of them, Rachel Gowey and Amelia 
Hundley, competed in the US Olympic Tri-
als in July while another, Maegan Chant, has represented Canada in international 
competitions during her career.
 “I think everyone is doing well, but there are always improvements to be 
made,” Chant said. “There is so much en-
ergy and I can’t wait for season.”
The Gators also lost and gained an ath-
lete through transfers during the offseason.
Peyton Ernst, who was in all but one 
balance beam lineup during her freshman season last year, transferred to Alabama.
But UF gained junior Rachel Slocum 
from Eastern Michigan. Slocum was the 
2016 Mid-American Conference Specialist of the Year.
These athletes, now having competed 
in three intrasquad meets and with the 
season just two days away, are ready to 
compete.
And while the ending to the 2016 season 
might still sting, the Gators now have the 
opportunity to rewrite their story in 2017.
“We can’t wait to get on the road for 
our first meet,” McMurtry said. “It’s al-
most here.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida gymnastics team aiming for consistency                                                       
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs her floor routine during Florida’s win against UCLA on Jan. 15, 2016, in the O’Connell Center. Baker is a nine-time All-American. 
Gators open season 
Sunday at N.C. StateRowland hoping for better results
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry performs on the uneven parallel bars during the NCAA Super Six on April 16, 2016, in 
Fort Worth, T exas. She is a 10-time All-American. FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
THE GATORS ADDED THREE NEW 
PLAYERS IN THE OFFSEASON.
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The UF men’s tennis team ﬁ  nished up Fall 
competition strong on Nov. 6. 
Yet, its offseason hasn’t been quiet. 
The team gained commitments from three 
highly touted recruits who will arrive on campus 
for the Fall 2017 season. 
Andy Andrade is one of them and comes 
from Bradenton’s IMG Academy. 
Andrade has been ranked as high as No. 12 
in his class, according to Tennisrecruiting.net.
He holds a career 20-5 record in ITF doubles 
action with ﬁ  ve doubles titles, including the 
2015 Grade 1 Prince George’s County Interna-tional Hard Court Junior Tennis Championship.
Duarte Vale trains with Andrade in Braden-
ton.
However, he hails from Cascais, Portugal. Aside from competing with Andrade in 
doubles, Vale competed in three of four Junior Grand Slams this year (French Open, Wimble-don, US Open). 
Vale also led his nation to the ﬁ  nals of the 
2016 European Summer Cup as Portugal’s No. 1.
Oliver Crawford is the ﬁ  nal member of the 
trio and competed in the same three Junior Grand Slams as Vale in 2016.
The South Carolina native ranks ﬁ  rst in his 
home state in recruiting and ﬁ  fth nationally with an ITF ranking of 31. While none of those recruits will be available 
until the 2017-18 season, the Gators neverthe-less enter the Spring season with momentum from strong performances that came at the end of 2016.
The doubles pair of Alfredo Perez and Jo-
hannes Ingildsen were bounced from the dou-bles tournament in the round of 16 at the USTA/ITA National Indoor Intercollegiate Champion-ships in Flushing, NY, placing them into the dou-bles consolation bracket. Perez and Ingildsen proceeded to win the consolation bracket and 
defeated the tournament’s fourth-seeded duo of 
Cash/Kahde from Oklahoma State in the ﬁ  nals.
Another standout performance came from 
Maxx Lipman at the Lakewood Ranch Dick Vi-tale Intercollegiate Clay Court Classic. 
Lipman and doubles partner Stephen Ma-
donia entered the tournament as second-seeded partnership but were eliminated in the quarter-ﬁ  nals. 
However, on his own, Lipman advanced to 
the quarterﬁ  nals of the singles bracket where he was eliminated in a three-set match against the tournament’s No. 4 seed, Robert Levine of Duke University.
The team’s ﬁ  rst action of its Spring season 
starts today in Plantation, where 10 Florida ath-letes will compete in the USA F3 Futures Pro Cir-cuit tournament. 
However, UF's ﬁ  rst home matchup will come 
against Georgia Southern on January 21 at the Ring Tennis Complex and begins at 10 a.m.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org Florida bolstering roster with talented recruiting classMEN'S TENNIS
coach Amanda Butler said in a 
release. “It’s really disappoint-ing because it seems like it’s silly turnovers, just ball reversal when someone’s in the passing lane and we don’t seem to see them.”
A 9-0 run capitalized by a 
three-pointer from Jackson gave LSU a 15-8 lead with 2:07 left in the frame, and the home team didn’t have to worry much from there. 
Jackson did most of her dam-
age in the second quarter, scoring 14 of her team’s 19 points in the frame to lead the Tigers to 53.8 percent shooting from the ﬁ  eld. UF, on the other hand, continued to be reckless with the basketball, turning it over another six times to ﬁ  nd itself down 36-27 at halftime.
Things continued to get worse 
for Florida, as it missed its ﬁ  rst 14 shots to begin the third quar-ter and increased its deﬁ  cit to 15 heading into the ﬁ  nal frame.
A brief 15-6 run to begin the 
fourth pulled the Gators to with-in six points with 5:00 left in the game, but that’s as close as they got. Multiple fastbreak layups from Jackson and junior guard Raigyne Moncrief late in the contest sealed the victory for the Tigers and kept UF winless in conference play.
“They did exactly what we 
prepared for them to do,” Butler said. “I thought we made it easy on them. They are great players, though. You have to give them a lot of credit for their effort.”
Next up, UF will host South 
Carolina on Sunday at noon. The No. 5 Gamecocks (12-1, 2-0 SEC) have won seven consecutive games against the Gators, includ-ing an 86-71 victory in Columbia last season.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
BASKETBALL,  from pg. 13Florida got as close as six pointsJordan McPherson / Alligator
Maxx Lipman returns a serve during Florida's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator 
Ronni Williams drives into the paint during Florida's win over Southeastern Louisiana on Dec. 28. 
16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 2017
Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
After two previous seasons 
that saw the Florida Gators 
softball team take home national championships, calling the end of the 2016 season a disappointment is an understatement.
The Gators lost in the NCAA 
Super Regional in a best-of-three series against the Georgia Bulldogs, unable to make the Women’s Col-lege World Series for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 2012.
But past events are past events, 
and Florida is looking forward 
to the new season and all of the potential that it brings. 
The team graduated its sec-
ond-winningest class in program history. Names that have placed themselves ﬁ  rmly in the program’s record books, such as Kelsey Stew-
art, Taylor Schwarz and Kirsti Mer-
ritt, ended their collegiate careers 
and leave large holes in the roster that will be a challenge to ﬁ  ll.
Inserting talented players to ﬁ  ll 
that void could be an issue, as the 
roster is brimming with young, in-
experienced players. 
Nearly a third of the 18 players 
on UF’s roster are freshmen, with ﬁ  ve newcomers entering the mix.
How the newcomers perform and mesh with the rest of the team is yet to be determined, and the 
leadership skills of veterans on the 
team could be crucial for the devel-
opment of the younger players. 
But while some veterans may be 
gone, UF does boast some accom-
plished returning players. 
Florida enters the season tout-
ing one of the nation’s strongest 
pitching arsenals. 
Aleshia Ocasio, who is enter-
ing her junior year, is coming off a 
season in which she earned a 22-2 
record and an ERA of 0.77, which 
was good for second in the NCAA and third-lowest in program his-tory. She also threw a no hitter in 
an early season contest with Jack-
sonville.
In addition to her talent in the circle, Ocasio showcased her 
offensive prowess, hitting .316 
in 57 at-bats during her ﬁ  rst two 
seasons.
Delanie Gourley, the lone se-
nior pitcher, was a 2016 First Team 
All-American as a junior after go-
ing 19-4 with a 0.80 ERA in 157.2  
innings pitched. Gourley, who was 
the ﬁ  rst left-handed pitcher signed by Tim Walton, has experience on both national championship teams and will be a resource for veteran 
leadership both on and off the ﬁ  eld.
While the pitching remains in-
tact and heavy with experienced 
talent, offensive ﬁ  repower is where the team lost its strongest players. 
The absence of shortstop Kelsey 
Stewart will open the opportunity 
for sophomore Theresa Swertfager or redshirt freshman Sophia Reyno-so, who missed all of last season 
due to injury. Both have a com-
bined three at-bats in comparison 
to Stewart’s 898.  
Other graduated players such 
as catcher Aubree Munro and ﬁ  rst 
baseman Taylor Schwarz leave the 
same predicament.
However, extended playing 
time should test younger players 
throughout the season and reveal how strong the team can be.
The Gators will have their ﬁ  rst 
chance at action on Feb. 10 when they open the season against Illi-nois State to begin the USF-Wilson Demarini Tournament in Tampa.
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.org Questions to answer as Florida softball looks to new year
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Aleshia Ocasio pitches in the ﬁ  rst game of Florida’s doubleheader against Jacksonville on Feb. 17  at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. She ﬁ  nished 2016 with a 0.77 ERA.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida’s 7-6 win against Auburn on April 5, 2014, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. In 2016, Gourley earned a 19-4 record. UF returns elite pitchers