We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 144 TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorFlorida’s three seniors preparing 
for ﬁ  nal postseason
Delanie Gourley, Justine McLean and Chelsea 
Herndon enjoying last run with UF softball, pg. 14Multimillion dollar chemistry building opens
It was unveiled at a ceremony in April, pg. 3
Bicyclist killed by BMW
GPD is investigating the case as a trafﬁ  c homicide, pg. 8THE MARCH FINISHED ON 
BO DIDDLEY PLAZA. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
As cars zipped along West 
University Avenue on April 22, 
a crowd of about 500 UF faculty 
members, students and commu-nity members started their Earth 
Day off with a march.
They trekked two miles — 
from UF’s Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 
to downtown Gainesville — in a show of support for science in 
the face of a president who some 
worry will endanger scientiﬁ  c 
progress.
Bruce Ferndahl, a Gainesville 
retiree, said he hopes President 
Donald Trump gets the message.
“He doesn’t really believe in 
the value of science,” the 64-year-
old said. “Open your eyes, and see what’s really happening in the 
world, to our planet.”
Echoed by more than 500 simi-
lar marches across the world, 
about 900 participants of the March for Science Gainesville con-vened on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, where faculty members and others took turns speaking into a microphone about the value of scientiﬁ  c discovery and the harm that could be done if that discov-ery were to stop.
Creative — and pointed — pro-
test signs dotted the plaza, some borrowing Hillary Clinton’s “I’m with Her” campaign slogan, with an arrow pointed at Mother Earth. Others modiﬁ  ed Trump’s slogan, hoisting “Make America Smart Again” signs.
As Jane Lu and Sorin Pascu 
rested in the shade, overlooking 
Bo Diddley Plaza’s center, they 
kept their homemade signs raised 
upright.
Lu’s read, “Stand Up For Sci-
ence.”Pascu’s read, “Global Warming 
Is Real.”
The 39-year-old researcher at 
UF’s Institute of Aging and the 59-year-old UF IT systems engi-neer, respectively, said they worry about their president and country.
“I think we have to make 
(America) smart ﬁ  rst before we can make it great,” Pascu said.
Trump signed an executive or-
der March 28 to roll back one of former President Barack Obama’s signature climate policies, the Clean Power Plan, and has pro-posed plans to cut funding to the Environmental Protection Agency, according to The New York Times.Juan Zapata, the March for Sci-
ence Gainesville’s lead organizer, said the goal of the West Univer-sity Avenue march and Bo Diddley Plaza rally was to not only bridge the scientiﬁ  c community with the general public and young kids, but to keep policymakers accountable. 
“Their purpose is to represent 
us in ofﬁ  ce,” the 20-year-old UF electrical engineering junior said. “We need to actually start seeing 
our ideas represented as opposed 
to private agendas being pushed.”
The Gainesville branch of the 
nationwide group March for Sci-
ence began organizing the rally in 
late January in solidarity with the 
Washington, D.C., rally, Zapata 
said. The event’s cost, includ-ing setup, organizing costs and acquiring permits, totalled about 
$2,500, he said.
For Chloe Winant, the science 
rally was all about the youth. 
The 36-year-old sixth-grade 
earth science teacher at Howard W. Bishop Middle School parad-
ed her white-and-green-striped 
cape and large sign that read, “Some people only dream of meet-ing their fav scientists — I teach mine!” across the plaza. 
Winant said the politics around 
science and STEM make her very concerned about cuts.
“The fact that we’re cutting ed-
ucation, and we’re cutting science education, and we’re cutting sci-ence research,” she said. “That’s going to make our country suffer.”
But Winant, a former UF ocean-
 Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Nearly 1000 participants of the March for Science Gainesville convened on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, where people spoke about the value of scientiﬁ  c discovery and the harm that could be done if that discovery were to stop. 
 March for Science Gainesville draws large crowd
SEE MARCH,  PAGE 4
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Two young Florida men died after an early 
morning car crash May 2 while driving through 
a roundabout in Gainesville.
At about 12:35 a.m., Kristian Tyler Barker, 
20, of Miami, and Matthew Nakamura, 23, of 
Tampa, were traveling northbound in a 2008 
BMW convertible when they struck a round-about at the intersection of Northeast Ninth Street and Northeast Eighth Avenue at a high speed, Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Witnesses told police the car went into the 
air after hitting the roundabout and subse-quently struck a tree, throwing Barker — the 
driver — out of the car. Both Barker and Na-
kamura were transported to UF Health Shands Hospital, where both were pronounced dead, Tobias said. 
Nakamura is a former UF student who last 
attended the university in 2012, UF spokesper-son Janine Sikes wrote in an email. 
On May 3, Nakamura’s brother, Joe, and 
his family started a GoFundMe page to cover costs including a memorial and funeral service. In the span of ﬁ  ve days, the family has raised $12,035 of their $15,000 goal. As of press time, more than 200 people have made donations.
Nakamura played on the Gainesville Hogs 
Rugby team as well as the UF Men’s Rugby 
Club team, said Todd Streeter, an assistant 
coach for the university’s team. 
“As a player, he was tenacious, strong and 
skilled,” Streeter said. “He was universally re-spected by teammates and opponents.”
Stephen Sheehan, a UF alumnus who also 
played on the university’s rugby team, said Na-kamura was more than just a teammate — he was something like a younger brother. Shee-han, 25, who used to live with Nakamura, said his friend passed far too soon.
“It’s sad because I think a lot of people kin-
da saw him as someone who was ﬁ  nally kinda ﬁ  guring things out, ﬁ  nally getting on the right track,” Sheehan said, “but he was a good guy.”
Sheehan, who currently teaches English 
and journalism at Everglades High School in Miramar, Florida, said he’ll never forget win-ning the Southeastern Collegiate Rugby Con-ference championship during the 2011-2012 season alongside Nakamura. However, above all, Sheehan said he’ll miss Nakamura’s genu-ine spirit.
“Even though he was a kid at heart, he had 
a very mature way of looking at stuff,” Shee-han said. “He had a lot of potential.”
 Former UF student, Miami resident both die in car crash
The vehicle struck a tree
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 143
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Sales Manager Joseph Fitzgerald, 
salesmanager@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
Advertising Clerks Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
 Editorial Production Staff Jordan Bourne, Lauren Johnson
  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Layers exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF 
presents Layers in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until 
Sept. 22. This exhibition features 
work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a 
popular street artist. In Layers, Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of ur-ban art. The show will include 
abstract photographs of layers 
on the 34th Street wall, photo-
graphs of artists at work, fallen 
paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An opening re-
ception for Layers will be Sept. 
8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the 
Libby Gallery. The exhibition 
and reception are free and open to the public. For more informa-
tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/
university-galleries.
Becoming ‘Cliterate’ book re-
lease
Wild Iris Books, the UF 
Department of Psychology 
and the UF Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies Research have col-
laborated today to present lo-
cal author and UF professor Laurie Mintz and the release of her new book, “Becoming Cliterate: Why Orgasm 
Equality Matters — and How 
to Get it." The local feminist bookstore will host an opening reception with a cash bar, food 
catered by Dos Mamas' and 
sweets by Cookiegazm. Mintz will discuss her new book and answer questions from the au-dience to help us all become 
more “cliterate.” The event is 
free and open to the public.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar's 
Comedy Boom features live stand-up comedy every Wednesday night. Local come-dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m., and the show begins at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials ac-company the show.
Life of Purpose Treatment 
presents An Evening for 
Collegiate RecoveryLife of Purpose Treatment is proud to present An Evening 
for Collegiate Recovery ben-
efit concert at UF. The event will be held Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. This concert, featuring Dr. Cheryl Karcher, Ken Block and Drew Copeland of Sister Hazel, will support 
the UF Collegiate Recovery 
Community (UFCRC). The con-cert will kick off the 5th Annual Southeastern CRC Summit hosted by the UF Counseling & 
Wellness Center. This event is 
open to the public, but space is limited. Tickets are $25 for general admission and $15 for 
students. To learn more about 
An Evening for Collegiate Recovery, please visit perform-ingarts.ufl.edu.
Museum Nights: Mini Mania
Join the Harn Museum of Art on Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. for Museum Nights: Mini 
Mania. This evening celebrates 
the miniature Asian art exhi-bition “Show Me the Mini.” View a petite dance perfor-mance, take a tiny tour and 
listen to the sounds of a toy pi-
ano performance. Art activities include painting a miniature landscape and folding itsy-bit-
sy origami. Admission is free.
GatorNights featuring Daniel 
Martin Magic
GatorNights is bringing you a 
night of mystery for your first 
week back for Summer class-es. From escape rooms to mug shots, bring your friends and 
take home some fun memories. 
Daniel Martin is the headlining magician for the night, so pre-pare to have your mind-blown. His show will take place from 
8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. The mystery continues with the thriller “Get Out” as the 
featured film for the night, 
showing at both 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. GatorNights is al-ways Friday and always free 
for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. Attendees must be current students to participate and are 
allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event.
Star Center Theatre and Caring 
and Sharing Learning School 
presents: ‘School of Rock’
The Star Center Theatre and Caring and Sharing Learning School present “School of 
Rock” at the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts on Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. “School of Rock” is a musical based on the famous Paramount Pictures film writ-
ten by Mike White, which 
starred Jack Black. The mu-sical follows Dewey Finn, a failed wannabe rock star who decides to earn a few extra 
bucks by posing as a substitute 
teacher at a prestigious prep school. Completely disinterest-ed in academic work, Dewey 
decides to create his own cur-
riculum, turning his class into a guitar-shredding, bass-slap-ping, mind-blowing rock band. Tickets are $12 for children 
ages 2 to 12 and $17 for the 
general public. They can be purchased at performingarts.ufl.edu or at UF’s Performing 
Arts Box Office.
Florida Museum to host speed-
dating science evening May 
18
Speed date a science subject. 
Join the Florida Museum of Natural History for an eve-ning of science and snacks 
May 18 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
At “Speed Science: Night at the Museum,” guests may ask scientists their most burning questions one-on-one. Pre-
registration is required, and 
participants must be 18 years or older. The cost is $20 for members or $25 for non-mem-
bers. For more information 
or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/speed-sci-ence-1/ or call 352-273-2064.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  92° LOW  58°TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE NEW CHEMISTRY 
BUILDING TOOK MORE 
THAN TWO YEARS TO 
COMPLETE AND COST 
ABOUT $66.6 MILLION.
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
After about three years of con-
struction and planning, university 
administrators, alumni and donors 
gathered to celebrate the ofﬁ  cial 
unveiling of UF’s new multimil-lion-dollar chemistry building.
Joseph Hernandez Hall, which 
sits on the corner of University Avenue and Buckman Drive, cost about $66.6 million and was completed over the span of 2 1/2 years.
At a ceremony held April 21, 
guests including UF President Kent Fuchs and Board of Trustees Vice Chair Mori Hosseini cut a cer-
emonial ribbon and spoke about 
the role the facility will have in the future of the university.
Fuchs said the new facility, 
which will serve about 9,000 un-
dergraduate students each year, 
symbolizes research, science and teaching. 
Hosseini said the 6,777 yards 
of concrete used to construct the building is enough to lay a side-walk from Gainesville to Micano-py and back. 
“Many people have worked 
very hard for many years to make this building a reality,” Hosseini 
said.Hanging over the entrance 
of the building is a 650-pound 
stainless steel sculpture depicting fullerene, which is a form of car-
bon. The art installation, which includes a Plexiglas centerpiece, is 
suspended by six steel cables.
In addition to brand new equip-
ment, the building’s interior has a 
general chemistry lab that accom-modates about 300 students. Gigi 
Marino, the Director of Communi-cations for UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, said the up-
grades are notable in comparison 
to the existing chemistry facilities: Leigh Hall and the Chemistry Lab Building.
At the ceremony, speakers 
praised UF alumnus Joseph Her-nandez, who donated $10 mil-lion toward the completion of the building.
Hernandez, a 43-year-old entre-
preneur based in New York, is the youngest donor in UF’s history to provide a donation of this magni-tude, Marino said.
Hernandez, whose parents im-
migrated to the U.S. from Cuba, has received a bachelor’s degree and two master’s degrees from UF.
Hernandez said he made his 
contribution not only to enhance the university’s chemistry depart-ment, but to show appreciation to-ward the institution that positively 
altered the trajectory of his life.
“I hope the message of the 
building is that this country is a 
place where you can come from 
nothing and choose something in 
life,” Hernandez said. “I hope it inspires students to not look back at what’s their history, but move forward as to what impact they 
can make in life.”  UF community celebrates opening of Joseph Hernandez Hall
Eman Elshahawy / Alligator
A 650-pound sculpture depicting a form of carbon is suspended by six steel cables over the entrance of 
Joseph Hernandez Hall, a $66.6 million building that was ofﬁ  cially unveiled on April 21. 
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
ography researcher and teaching assistant, 
said she was encouraged by the sense of community at the rally. “I’ve seen so many of my students (here),” she said, as well as her fellow teachers and former research col-leagues. “Locally, that’s where it matters.” 
The March for Science Gainesville hosted 
about 20 ofﬁ  cial tabling sites, Zapata said, where some organizations held political outreach. The League of Women Voters, partnered with the Alachua County Super-
visor of Elections, offered voter registration 
services, he said, and the Citizens’ Climate 
Lobby offered written forms for demonstra-tors to submit their concerns to local ofﬁ  -cials. 
Other organizations tabled to bring sci-
ence to kids. 
Hands on Gainesville, a youth and sci-ence oriented nonproﬁ  t, brought bike-pow-ered light bulbs to their tent. When kids hopped on the stationary bike and pushed 
the pedals, which were electrically wired 
to three light bulbs, light appeared before 
them. 
“The purpose of this is to get the kids 
into science, (to) show them what they can 
do,” said Barbara Beck, a co-founder of 
Hands on Gainesville.
As Ferndahl, a UF alumnus who gradu-ated from the School of Architecture in the 
early ‘70s, took a break from the heat un-der the shade and watched the demonstra-
tion, he said he wants everyone, especially 
young people, to reach out to local ofﬁ  cials. 
“They need to hear from all of us,” he 
said. “Otherwise they do what they already 
want.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org MARCH,  from pg. 1Participants voiced concerns about proposed budget cuts
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
A protester holds a sign during the March for Science Gainesville to show his support for scientiﬁ  c progress in the face of a presidency that threatens it.
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Protesters who participated in the March for Science Gainesville held signs to repre-sent their stance on continuing scientiﬁ  c progress.
TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Melissa Hawthorne stood before 
the Florida Constitution Revision 
Commission to make an impas-sioned plea. 
Her son suffered at the charter 
school he attended because the school wasn’t held to any standards and failed to discover his learning disability, Hawthorne said. Only af-ter attending a public school did he get the help he needed. 
At a public meeting at the Phil-
lips Center for the Performing Arts on April 26, Hawthorne implored the commission not to make any changes to Article Nine of the Flor-ida Constitution, which deals with the quality and requirements of the education system.
Hawthorne was just one of many 
who attended the meeting to share which parts of the state constitu-tion they thought should or should not be amended. Such amendments could be placed on the 2018 elec-tion ballot by the commission.
Armed with stacks of amend-
ment proposals, carefully planned speeches and cards indicating their opinions, the people of Central Florida let the commissioners know their views on hot-button issues, such as open primary elections, an independent judiciary, environ-mental issues and a woman’s right to choose regarding abortion. 
The most popular issue of the 
night was education. There were a number of speakers who em-phasized that Article Nine of the Florida Constitution should not be changed. 
In the audience, many green 
cards went into the air to indicate support for not allowing school vouchers and charter schools to receive public-school funding. Ala-chua County school board member Eileen Roy spoke at the hearing in defense of public schools.
“Public schools are the bedrock 
of American democracy,” Roy said 
to applause from the audience.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
and Inglis Mayor Drinda Merritt 
attended the meeting to talk about maintaining cities’ ability to govern themselves in the constitution. 
They both made speeches focus-
ing on the positives of cities being able to pass laws that directly affect their citizens. Both felt citizen-cen-tered government should maintain its ability to listen to and decide what’s best for the people.
“The only government that has 
any idea what the residents want is the local government,” Merritt said.
The Florida Constitution Re-
vision Commission will review amendment proposals and choose ones to be placed on the 2018 elec-tion ballot after traveling around the state to hear from other people. 
@fladam98
aturner@alligator.org
Revision Commission hears concerns about Florida’s Constitution 
By Kasey McElheny
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two new scientists have joined the 
group of current and retired UF professors 
recognized by the National Academy of 
Sciences.
Doug Soltis and Arthur Hebard were 
both elected by current members of the NAS for their research last week.
The NAS, which now has 16 scientists 
from UF and about 2,250 scientists in to-
tal, aims to link government and science 
through the advanced research of its mem-
bers. 
Soltis, a UF plant biol-
ogy professor and curator 
at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, was 
elected into the academy for his research on plant 
evolution and biodiver-
sity. 
Soltis is currently 
working on a project 
called Tree of Life, which maps the rela-
tions among all organisms and explains 
the connections and biodiversity between 
those living on Earth.“I think what makes me get up every 
day is the amazing diversity on this planet 
and learning how it all fits together,” Soltis 
said.
Soltis said he hopes NAS will give him 
a better platform to display his research.
“I look forward to helping and making a 
difference,” Soltis said. 
Hebard, a UF physics professor, was the 
first in the Department of Physics to be rec-ognized by the academy.
Hebard currently studies condensed 
matter experimental physics, and he be-lieves his NAS membership will give him a voice in science at a higher level.
“NAS will give me a 
chance to broaden my-
self by collaborating and interacting with other 
members,” he said. 
Hebard said his fa-
vorite part about phys-
ics is the diverse results found every day.
“You have to be will-
ing to be surprised,” Hebard said.
 “If you go into work knowing what to 
expect for the day, you are not doing phys-
ics research,” he said.UF scientists nationally recognized
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man ac-
cused of sexually molesting and exposing 
himself to a minor early Monday morning.
Tavon Torrell Floyd, 30, was arrested 
at 1:55 a.m. Monday and faces a charge of 
lewd or lascivious molestation of a child 
under 12 years old, according to Alachua County Jail records.
Floyd is dating the mother of the girl — 
whose name and age was redacted from the report — and currently lives with her and her siblings at 3105 NE 15th St., according to an arrest report.
On Friday, the girl told her godmother 
that she didn’t want to go home because Floyd had been touching her, according to the report. She also told another child and that child’s mother the same thing Sunday.
The girl’s mother then confronted her 
about the allegation in front of Floyd. When her mother asked her if Floyd had ever touched her “down there,” she said “yeah” and added that he touched her with a “knife,” referring to the male genital area, 
according to the report.
During a forensic interview, the girl said 
Floyd sleeps in her bed and “messes” with 
her while both of their clothes are off, ac-cording to the report. 
When interviewers asked whether any-
thing went inside or outside her body, she initially said outside, but she later said it went inside, according to the report.
The girl described the “knife” as “hard” 
and black, and she stated it “hurt me” when she pointed to the genital region on the male diagram, according to the report.
During the interview, the girl revealed 
the incident occurred only once, according to the report. Police determined it happened April 8.
“We unfortunately see quite a few cases 
of molestation,” said GPD spokesperson Of-ficer Ben Tobias.
According to the report, Floyd denied 
having intercourse with the girl, touching her in a sexual manner and making her per-form oral sex on him.
As of Monday, Floyd remains in the Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of a $25,000 bond.Gainesville man accused of 
molesting girlfriend’s daughter
Soltis
 Hebard
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
If you’ve scrolled through social media re-
cently, you’ve probably seen references to a new television show. It’s called “13 Rea-
sons Why.” Now, before you aggressively 
leap to a positive or negative reaction to 
those three words, hear me out. I’m not going to spoil anything other than the general prem-
ise, so if you haven’t watched the series, don’t 
worry about me ruining it for you. 
Basically, the show is centered around a 
group of high-school students. One of their peers, Hannah Baker, commits suicide, and 
she leaves behind several tapes that get passed among 
a group of students. There are seven cassette tapes de-tailing 13 reasons why she ended her life. The students who receive the collection of tapes each have their own 
reason, where Baker explains their involvement in her 
reasons to take her life.
I have seen two varying reactions to this show. Some 
people think it’s the greatest thing that has ever hap-pened to pop culture. They praise the idea of openly 
talking about suicide and showing viewers that every-
thing you say or do can affect them more than you real-ize.
Other people are infuriated. They don’t like the idea 
of mental illness being used as just another thing to post about on social media. I’ve even seen posts that accuse those who praise the show of being insensitive to the issue in the past.
I understand both arguments. I think it’s great that 
we are opening up the conversation. Not talking about mental health or the struggles we face openly could make them even worse. However, talking about mental health just for the sake of discussing it isn’t okay. If I 
see one more tweet saying something along the lines of, 
“Wow, I never realized what we say affects people so much! #13reasonswhy,” I’m going to explode. I’m so glad we’re opening the dialogue. I really am. But I’m disgusted that it takes a Netﬂ  ix show to make people realize the importance of their 
words and actions. 
Is seeing people react to our own words 
not enough? Is learning about mental illness 
not enough to make us recognize that this can 
happen to anyone — even people we know? 
Why do we have to watch a ﬁ  ctional charac-ter elaborate on how other people’s actions affected her for more than 12 hours to ﬁ  nally have this revelation? 
Dear readers, nobody is perfect. We all say things 
we don’t mean, and we’ve all done things we wish we hadn’t. However, I honestly think sometimes we don’t consider the latter of these situations until it’s too late. 
It shouldn’t take a ﬁ  ctional person ending his or her life 
and then posthumously pointing it out in excruciating detail over the course of several tapes for us to realize that maybe what we said or did wasn’t okay and might be a bigger deal to someone else than it was to us. 
I’m not saying you can’t make a mistake. But at the 
same time, don’t blow it off because it was just a mis-take. Hold yourself accountable. While you can’t always take words or actions back, you can apologize and try 
to rectify the situation. Don’t wait until something ter-
rible happens to feel remorse.
I invite you to watch this show. While I clearly have 
my qualms about the way some people reacted to it, I have personally enjoyed the show. If you do, don’t turn 
it into a way to make you appear “woke.” Let watching 
this show be an opportunity for a self-evaluation. I hope you understand the power of your words and actions, even if it takes a Netﬂ  ix series to open your eyes. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
sophomore.Understand the impact your words can have It’s that time of the year again: graduation season. Our social-
media timelines are ﬂ  ooded with photos of painted square caps and statuses from friends raving about what an incred-ible journey the last four years have been. Now that com-
mencement is in full swing, Gator graduates and current stu-
dents alike are being forced to face a rather harsh reality. Life 
beyond college is real, and it’s imminent.
I’ll let you in on a secret: The future is a scary place for every-
one, and those who say otherwise are lying. A number of oppor-
tune scholars recently walked across the stage knowing full well 
that the diploma they were being handed would soon be hanging on the wall of a cushy ofﬁ  ce, or at least a well decorated cubicle, 
in just a few weeks. Other graduates ambled across the threshold 
of commencement unsure of what the future would hold for them.
Although the graduates are the ones getting ready to face the 
harsh reality of life after UF, onlooking students, such as myself, 
develop their own anxieties during this time. Society administers 
an unspoken division between graduates around this time. At 
high-school graduation, we were taught to think that the students 
who were accepted to college were the successful ones, while 
those who were planning on staying at home or continuing a job in their hometown were meant to be seen as failures.
 As college comes to a close, we are programed to have a simi-
lar mindset. There are those who are successful and have jobs 
lined up months before they are even handed their diplomas. 
There are those who have failed because they have no idea what they are doing past their Midtown bar crawl after the ceremony. 
As a bystander in the grandeur of graduation, we subcon-
sciously determined and judged how successful our ﬂ  eeting 
friends are, or were going to be. As we did this, we all began to 
measure the level of our own success. Am I doing enough to en-
sure my future? Will I have a job when I graduate? Is it really that 
bad to graduate and still be on the hunt for a job? These are the 
types of questions that ran through current students minds as we 
watched our friends leave and become Gator graduates.
It does not and should not matter whether you have a plan. As 
members of the Gator Nation, we work our butts off. We go to one 
of the best schools in the nation, and getting accepted, let alone 
graduating, is a huge honor in and of itself. We have a lot to be proud of whether we know what our future holds or not.
It is apparent that people have lost the sense of celebration that 
should accompany a momentous time such as graduation. We 
have instead begun to judge ourselves and self-deprecate to an 
unhealthy level.
It is completely normal to not know what you are going to do 
the minute you are handed your diploma. Sure, some people do, and that is great for them. However, not knowing is nothing to 
be ashamed of. It does not make you a failure or mean that you 
should be any less proud of yourself during this incredible time 
in your life.
There are a lot of factors that go into ﬁ  nding a job. The amount 
of time it takes you to get hired varies between career ﬁ  elds and is 
nothing to worry about or be ashamed of.
Those graduating and those creeping closer to their own ﬁ  nal 
days must enjoy their accomplishments and reject the societal pressure to group themselves into categories of success and fail-
ure. We all have a great deal to be proud of and a great deal to 
look forward to in our futures.Graduation should 
be a time of 
celebration 
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
I have heard many times that 
“time” is one of those things that you cannot get back. I also ﬁ  nd myself occasionally repeat-ing this same message when 
giving advice. It makes sense that time won’t be given back to you, and you should cherish it, but I feel people abuse the saying — even for the smallest of things. 
Whenever I’ve heard the idiom 
or said it myself, it has always been about lit-tle things that get in the way of what I will call “Business” for the rest of this column. Now, 
Business is the champion for many things: 
healthy and harmful pastimes, scholastic or academic endeavors, business itself and more. Simply put, Business represents responsibil-ity: that ugly thing that we have all come to terms with (or at least should have by now) as we blossom into adulthood and old age.
The little things mentioned earlier that get 
in the way of Business will be referenced to 
as “Not Business” for the rest of this column; 
it’s clever, I know. Characteristically, Not Business and Business share the fact that they are vague. Not Business could be anything. It could be watching a TV series, exercis-ing, playing a sport you enjoy, playing video games, eating, sleeping, complaining about not getting enough sleep, lying in the sun, reading, writing, etc.
Anyway, Not Business is seemingly por-
trayed or criticized as a bad thing whenever it interferes with Business, and I believe, to an extent, that this is a ﬂ  awed concept. Not Busi-ness is not a bad thing; it’s just not Business. The lack of cold is not heat; it is just not cold. So, when someone gets in your face and tries to push responsibilities down your throat as you play video games, tell them 
that is not cool. 
This is not to say that the previ-
ously mentioned idiom of time is 
worthless. I actually believe the id-iom is valuable. However, I think it is overused and used on too 
many sensitive issues. For example, telling an-other that he or she cannot get their time back is appropriate if that person plans to spend 
the next 10 hours binge-watching “Game of 
Thrones” before season seven starts,  instead of writing his or her paper that is due in three days. Sometimes, however, it can get ridicu-lous. For instance, when you have been living at the library for the past 2 1/2 months study-ing for one exam, and you decide to relax for an hour doing what you enjoy. Then, some-one has the nerve to tell you that you will not 
get that hour back for the exam. That’s when 
it is too much. I worked for that hour. Do not take that time away from me. 
Regardless, I probably should be told by 
someone soon that I will not get my recent Not Business time back. I spent way too much time Not Business-ing when I should have been working on my internship. I guess I will have to repent for my scholastic sins. If you 
know my face, you will probably see me in 
the academic holiness that is Library West, repenting and regretting. 
James Hardison is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Tuesdays.Don’t be afraid to waste your timeColumn
James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgAs consumers of art, one of the issues we often face is how much stock to put in the artist when evaluating their works. Especially today, when many 
works of art comment upon a 
world that’s growing volatile in many respects, an artist’s personal identity becomes un-deniably intertwined with their message.
The matter of a band’s iden-
tity grows complicated when it’s composed entirely of cartoon characters, however. 
The musical and visual brainchild of Da-
mon Albarn and Jamie Hewlett, respec-tively — the virtual band Gorillaz — has returned after ﬁ  ve years of silence with a new album that candidly comments upon today’s sociopolitical landscape. Ironically, the blazing new album is titled “Humanz.”
“Humanz” plays out like the soundtrack 
for a vivid fever dream, equal parts des-
perate, desolate, frenzied and rapturous. 
Much more tangible than the last big Goril-laz album — the almost operatic "Plastic Beach" — “Humanz” feels eerily ﬁ  tting in today’s tumultuous world. Extrapolating the album to the American political climate wouldn’t be a reach — in Albarn’s own words, it is “unashamedly about America.”
Albarn and his many collaborators nev-
er aimed to shy away from their overt mes-sage. From the earliest whispers of its ex-istence, “Humanz” has been political, and the range of emotions in its execution is a hallmark of its frankness.Gorillaz's projects have al-
ways thrived on collaboration, and “Humanz” features more guest features than any previous album. In fact, there’s only one 
full track without any collabo-
rators. Through much of the re-cord, Albarn’s usually prominent vocals as lead singer 2-D ﬂ  icker in and out, taking a respectful backseat to the green and deco-rated collaborators alike.
Although every featured voice is essen-
tial to creating what is essentially a collage 
of emotions about the here and now, the 
gargantuan list of varied artists and styles at times undermines “Humanz” as a soni-cally cohesive record. Even with the al-bum’s poignant message so thickly woven into the fabric of “Humanz,” the effort that goes into reconciling such disparate tones sometimes detracts from it.
Regardless of genre clashes, an under-
lying danceable pulse draws together the loose ends of “Humanz.” Even the minimal-istic “Andromeda,” largely the mellowest track of the album, pops with lively bass. At a surface level, it perhaps seems wrong to celebrate and dance as the world around us goes up in ﬂ  ames. Really though, the energy that bounces throughout “Humanz” is the artistic manifestation of its contribu-
tors’ political passions, and its intoxicating 
rhythms are the basis of its power.
A version of this column by Sahana 
Rangarajan originally appeared in The Daily Californian.
Gorillaz's album represents AmericaUWire
Sahana
Rangarajan
UWire8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
POLICE ARE INVESTIGATING THE 
CRASH AS A TRAFFIC HOMICIDE. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are investigating a crash 
that left a bicyclist dead the night of April 28.
Gainesville resident Zachary William House, 44, was crossing the intersection of 
2500 NW 13th St. when he was fatally struck 
by a black BMW, which witnesses said ap-peared to be high-speed racing northbound on Northwest 13th Street just prior to the crash, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Emergency medical personnel declared 
House dead on the scene, Tobias said.
Immediately after the crash, Joshua Cordell Stewart Stephens, who was driving 
the BMW that struck House, pulled into the 
nearby Knights Inn hotel parking lot, returned to the crash site on foot and conducted an in-terview with law enforcement, Tobias said.
Stephens, 20, was released on-site and 
may face charges in the future, Tobias said. Tobias added that it’s very rare for arrests to happen on-scene at a crash site.
Although many details remain unknown, Tobias said police are now investigating the 
crash as a trafﬁ  c homicide, which can take 
months to complete.
“Any charges that would be applied are 
done at the end of the investigation,” Tobias said. “We want to look at every angle.”
 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org GPD: Witnesses say bicyclist was fatally struck by BMW 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After ofﬁ  cially being sworn in, 
Gainesville Police’s newest ofﬁ  cers learned the “three C’s”: the constitu-tion, consistency and compassion. 
“We treat people as people,” GPD 
Chief Tony Jones told the new ofﬁ  -cers. “You’re going to meet people who will not be so nice, but they are human beings.”
GPD held an Oath of Ofﬁ  ce cere-
mony to swear in 14 new ofﬁ  cers on April 19. About 120 people, includ-ing family members, close friends and city ofﬁ  cials watched as the new 
ofﬁ  cers swore their oath of ethics 
and listened to words from Jones and GPD Capt. Anthony Ferrara.
One by one, new ofﬁ  cers called 
upon their loved ones to join them in front of the podium to pin their badges onto their uniforms. 
“These ofﬁ  cers themselves actu-
ally have to give (up) so much of 
their time with their loved ones,” 
GPD Lt. Jaime Kurnick said. “They work all hours of the day and all hours of the night.”
With months of classroom train-
ing now behind them, the new ofﬁ  -cers will begin four months of inten-sive on-the-road training before they can patrol by themselves, GPD Lt. Joe Raulerson said.
The entire hiring process takes 
about 16 months, but sometimes it takes longer depending on when the ofﬁ  cers were ﬁ  rst recruited, Rauler-
son said.
“It’s really a long process,” he said. “That’s just the way it works.”
For Denzel Kankam, it’s all worth 
it. The newly sworn-in ofﬁ  cer said he joined the force to be a part of the 
solution. 
“With all the issues going around, 
people like to just sit around and talk,” Kankam said, “but I felt like, why not join the force and try to make a difference instead of just having a discourse?”
Kankam, a 24-year-old UF alum-
nus, said his goal is to work with youth and serve in GPD’s gang unit.“As a youth, you can really 
change their path,” Kankam said.
To close out the ceremony, Fer-
rara turned toward the 14 new ofﬁ  -cers and offered his wisdom.
“If there’s one thing I’ve learned, 
it’s that we do not rest on our lau-rels,” Ferrara said. “We’re always looking for what’s best out there, to do more. So, do more.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
 GPD swears in 14 new oﬃ   cers at Oath of Oﬃ   ce ceremonyTUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Carlos and Andrea Mesa met 
each other seven years ago while 
both working at The Copper Mon-
key.
On the evening of April 15, the 
newly married couple — who re-cently learned they are expecting 
their ﬁ  rst child — said their last 
goodbyes to the place that brought 
them and so many others together.
Earlier in the month, owners 
put The Copper Monkey, located 
at 1700 W. University Ave., up for 
auction on eBay. On April 13, the 
bar and restaurant was purchased 
for $80,100.01 by the owners of the 
bar next door, The Rowdy Reptile.
In the early hours of April 16, 
after 37 years of serving cheap 
drinks and food to students, 
alumni and community members in Midtown, the jukebox at The 
Copper Monkey blasted music for the last time. Queen’s “Bohemian Rhapsody” was one of the last 
songs it played.
In the back alcove of the res-
taurant, as customers ate burgers 
and drank their beers, former staff 
members and longtime customers 
sat and retold stories from their 
days spent at The Copper Monkey.
Averie Johnson, the restau-
rant’s general manager for the 
last eight years, said the owners 
ﬁ  rst started considering selling 
The Copper Monkey about three 
months ago. 
Johnson said he ﬁ  rst realized 
the city was changing when Gator City was replaced with The Social at Midtown, located at 1728 W. University Ave. From there, new-
er restaurants and bars started to 
take the place of older ones, and 
the landscape around The Copper 
Monkey changed.
Johnson said business became 
slower with each passing year, and Gainesville seemed to stop sup-porting mom-and-pop restaurants. 
“It lost the vibe Gainesville 
had,” Johnson said.
Johnson said that in March, 
the owners ofﬁ  cially decided to 
sell. The Copper Monkey West in 
Jonesville, located at 14209 W. 
Newberry Road, will remain open.
Sally “Pre” Morris, the longest 
working of any former staff mem-
bers, spent closing night hugging 
and drinking with the lifelong 
friends she made at The Copper 
Monkey. She worked as a chef for 
more than 12 years.
“It’s really just an awesome 
place,” Morris said.
Andy Gillis, a long-time cus-
tomer of the restaurant, proposed to his wife at The Copper Mon-
key. It was 1984, and at the time, 
she said no. Gillis laughed as he 
recounted the memory to others 
who were celebrating the bar’s last night.
“She needed me to be making 
money before she said yes,” Gillis said.
Some current staff members 
said they were upset about how little notice they received about the closure. Virginia Mikell, The 
Copper Monkey’s house manager 
for six years, heard that her former 
workplace would be closing just a 
week before April 15. Although she 
wasn’t working there at the time of 
closure, she said employees could 
have been notiﬁ  ed earlier.
Former employee Sam Gold-
stein, who worked as a server 
while he was a student at UF in 
2003, said friends would frequent-
ly visit for food and drinks when he was on the clock.
Although the ﬁ  nal party April 
15 was sad for the restaurant’s past employees, remembering 
happy memories from The Copper 
Monkey made the night worth it.
“It was the best job a college 
kid could ever ask for,” Goldstein said. “I’m thankful to have worked at The Copper Monkey.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.org  The Copper Monkey closes its doors after 37 years
Customers, staf said inal goodbyes 
• 101 CANTINA
• DOUGH RELIGION 
PIZZA
• OOZOO BAR
• BURRITO BROTHERS TACO CO.
• ONE GREEK STORE
• BURGERQUE
• GATOR CITY SPORTS GRILL
• ENVYPLACES THAT 
HA VE RECENTL Y 
CLOSED ON
 UNIVERSITY 
A VENUEBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles 
from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR 
vintage apartments near UF & downtown, 
with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 
to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.
CozyGator.com      5-9-17-16-23 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida 
room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-
vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    
4-18-17-7-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
ENCLAVE APARTMENTS
1/1 in 2/2, female. May to August.
$540/mo - DISCOUNTED from $640/mo
Call 352-317-4164         5-9-17-4-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/
PSY) as live-in companions responsibe for 
3 for overnight shifts per week to assist a re-
covering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bkgrnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
Designated drivers are the greatestGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
GOODBIKE / 2 Locations
Bicycle Sales and Service
425 NW 13th St ● 352-792-6600
210 NW 10th Ave ● 352-327-3727
Big selection of new & used bikes    5-23-
17-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    5-18-17-16-14
Need native Italian speaker.
In person conversational lesson.
1 to 2 hours per week. Schedule flexible. 
Reply to JLLSuzy@yahoo.com    5-16-17-
4-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and 
medical assistant positions. Full time and 
part time available. Transportation is re-
quired and some experience is preffered. 
Please email your resume to jere.scola@
gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Wanted someone to complete building a 
website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15
FRESH CUSTOM APPAREL
T-shirts, Hats & Uniforms.Screen
printing, Embroidery & Sublimation
FREE Graphic Design & Shipping on
eligible orders.Call, Text or Email for
same day Quote.786-514-6298
joe.plaza@freshprintsmiami.com
5-18-5-15
NORTHFLO CROSSFIToffering UF staff and student student dis-count. $99 dollars a month. We also offer personal training and nutrition. Call Today 352-470-9131    5-23-17-5-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. In 2015, Colorado’s Nolan Arena-
do set the record for most extra-base 
hits by a third baseman (89). Who had 
held the mark?
2. Who holds the major-league mark 
for most scoreless innings pitched at 
home?
3. Name the single-season leader in 
touchdown passes for the New York Jets.
4. When was the last time before 
2016 that Oklahoma’s men’s basket-ball team reached the Final Four?
5. How many NHL All-Star Games 
did Hockey Hall of Famer Andy Bath-gate play in during his 17-year career?
6. In 2016, Chase and Bill Elliott 
became the fourth father-son duo to each capture a Daytona 500 pole. 
Who were the others?
7. When was the last year before 
2016 that tennis player Rafael Nadal 
did not have any Grand Slam quarter -
final appearances? 
Answers
1. The Braves’ Eddie Mathews had 
87 in 1953.
2. Ray Herbert of the Chicago White 
Sox in 1962-63, with 54 innings.
3. Ryan Fitzpatrick, with 31 in 2015.4. It was 2002.
5. Eight times.
6. Richard and Kyle Petty, Bobby 
and Davey Allison, and Dale Earn-hardt and Dale Earnhardt Jr.
7. It was 2004.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 8, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance accepted
Marcywilson.com ½ price for
veterans or cancer patients
Call/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 TV drama whose
title appeared on
a Californialicense plate
6 Beatrix Potter’s
“The __ of Peter
Rabbit”
10 “Right away!”
letters
14 Yellow-and-white
daisy
15 Goat with
recurved horns
16 Circle dance
17 Gadget used on
carrots
20 Inventor Whitney
21 No-win situation
22 Expression of
woe
23 Seasonal sack
toter
26 Whisperer’s
target
27 Utter28 Deepwater
Horizon
catastrophe
32 Slanted type
33 Bronze
component
34 “Baseball
Tonight” network
38 Swamp reptile39 Lobbying gp.40 __ New Guinea41 Mets’ home
through 2008
42 Roguish43 Arcade machine
inserts
44 Inhales47 Key near Caps
Lock
50 Spy org.51 Time to chill,
briefly
52 Dozing54 CDX x V55 Extinct New
Zealand bird
58 Activity one might
see at a circus ...or in the Acrossanswerscontainingcircles?
62 Sharp flavor63 Rummikub piece64 React to pain65 Wraps up66 Attacking the
problem
67 Soft drink sizeDOWN
1 Adore
2 Skater’s leap3 Make laws4 Shipboard
affirmative
5 Like an unfun
blanket?
6 Related to the
shinbone
7 Up to the task8 Calm side9 Clarify
10 “If I may 
interject ... ”
11 Shoe undersides12 Sports venue13 New Year’s Eve
staple
18 High point of a
home tour?
19 British nobleman24 Bobbing on the
waves
25 Gritty film genre26 “Iliad” or “Aeneid”
28 Jobs for a band
29 The Beehive
State
30 Corset stiffeners
31 Released without
authorization
35 Gum flavor
36 Many a fourth-
down play37 Singer with
Crosby and Stills
39 Courtroom entry
40 Lewd literature
42 Reaches without
reading theinterveningpages
43 Pre-Little League
game
45 Scored 100 on46 Sleeve band47 Sense of style48 Egypt’s __ High
Dam
49 Fair-haired53 Work units54 The Niger River
flows through it
56 “__ upon a
midnight dreary ... ”
57 Stress, so they say59 Come out on top60 Nocturnal hunter61 Nintendo console
By Victor Barocas
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/09/1705/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"PhotographersOPEN HOUSE
Fri., Jan. 13, from 2 to 5 p.m.
Please send resume 
and clips to mvossler@alligator.organd editor@alligator.orgTHE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO 
FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITION:Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida softball seniors Delanie 
Gourley, Justine McLean  and 
Chelsea Herndon  prepare for 
their final postseason push. Read the story, pg. 14.UF women's basketball program lands transfer
Coach Cameron Newbauer announced Monday that Miami forward Zada 
Williams  has transferred to Florida. Williams has two years of eligibility 
remaining and will be available for the 2018-19 season.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsGators Summer Break Roundup
JAKE 'N' BAKE
When the 
Baltimore Orioles  
played the 
Boston  
Red Sox in a four-game series starting 
May 1, one of 
baseball’s budding rivalries was put on full display.
It doesn’t have the history the 
Red Sox and Yankees do, and they're not competing for state supremacy like the Dodgers and Giants are.
This one is based off a pure 
hatred for one another. The Orioles and the Red Sox just don’t like each other. More specifically, the Red Sox don’t 
like Orioles third 
baseman Manny Machado, and both teams are fighting it 
out as a result.
As a fan of 
baseball, there's 
nothing more 
exciting than bad blood between 
two teams.
Having a new, fresh rivalry is 
exactly what the MLB needs to 
draw some more attention back 
to the sport.
You no longer see teams Red Sox-Orioles mutual hatred good for baseball
The Associated Press
Baltimore Orioles third baseman Manny Machado reacts after 
striking out during Wednesday's 4-2 loss to the Boston Red Sox.
The No. 6-ranked Gators 
women’s golf team gave a 
convincing argument two weeks ago for why they believed they should be the No. 1 seed at the 
NCAA Regional Championships 
in Columbus, Ohio. With a commanding 13-stroke victory over Alabama and Georgia, Florida took home its ninth SEC title in program history.
On Monday afternoon, the 
Gators served notice to the rest of the Columbus regional field 
exactly why that No. 1 seed was 
well-earned.
Freshman Marta Perez, 
who struggled in the SEC Championship, helped pace the Gators to a 9-over-par finish on the first day of the tournament. Perez’s 1-over performance was good for a tie for fourth overall 
among the field and comes on the 
heels of being named to the SEC All-Freshman Team. Purdue’s Marta Martin Garcia took the top spot in round one at 2 under.
Florida started off steady, 
posting a team score of 1 over  through the front nine, tying with Ohio State for the lead. However, 
after three bogeys and two double 
bogeys to begin the next two holes, the Buckeyes lost their chance to capitalize on Florida’s relatively smaller mistakes.
Senior Maria Torres, one of the 
Gators two golfers named to the First Team All-SEC on Thursday, had an uncharacteristically flat 
day. After posting an even par on 
the front nine, Torres bogeyed on holes 10, 17 and 18 to finish tied for 12th at 3 over.
Fellow senior Kelly Grassel, 
the other First Team All-SEC member for Florida, had a very similar outing; Grassel shot even par on the front nine and posted 
two bogeys before alternating 
between a birdie and bogey on holes 15 and 16. Gators 
lead NCAA Regional after Round One
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
SEE WOMEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 14By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
While spring classes at the 
University of Florida may have 
wrapped up several weeks ago, Gators athletics certainly did not.
Nine of UF’s 19 varsity programs 
are still in season over the next month and a half, with many having accomplished some noteworthy feats since the Alligator took a break  from publishing at the end of April.
To catch up on what’s happened 
with Gators sports while we’ve 
been away, here’s a full summer 
break roundup detailing everything that’s gone down in the Swamp. Eight Gators Selected in the 
NFL Draft
Following a difficult senior 
season cut short by a severe ankle injury, Jarrad Davis can now say that it was all worth it.
The former Florida linebacker 
was picked 21st overall in the NFL Draft on April 27 by the Detroit Lions, living out a moment that was nothing less than a dream come true .
Davis, who finished his career at 
UF with 205 tackles and 5.5 sacks, was overcome with emotion the 
night of his selection, stating he 
was simply honored to be one of 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE SUMMER ROUNDUP,  PAGE 15WOMEN'S GOLF
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJakeThe Associated Press
Former Florida linebacker Jarrad Davis poses with his parents, Amy and John, as he is introduced at a Detroit Lions press conference 
on April 28, 2017. Davis was one of eight Gators selected in the 2017 NFL Draft.14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
Junior Taylor Tomlinson 
had perhaps the most eventful 
round of the day, draining three birdies, which led the team. However, Tomlinson 
also posted six bogeys, three 
each on the front and back nine. 
Emily Glaser knows a thing 
or two about staying humble. Over the course of the season, the Gators women’s golf head coach has harped on the need for her team to learn from its mistakes, even after 
convincing tournament wins.
On Thursday, that 
philosophy and the results it produced earned Glaser 
SEC Coach of the Year, her ﬁ  rst such honor since taking charge of the team in 2012. Of course, with the accomplishment came more lessons to be learned.
“It’s humbling to be 
selected for coach of the year,” Glaser said after winning the award. “This award is shared with (assistant coach) Janice (Olivencia) who has provided tremendous support to myself and all members of our team.”
Glaser said that the Gators’ 
day one performance in Columbus was solid, but, in what’s come to be expected 
from her, Glaser emphasized 
the learning opportunities.
“This golf course teaches you a lot about yourself and your game,” Glaser said. “We are gaining valuable experience.”
@morgan_mcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org
 
W-GOLF,  from pg13Florida leads by two strokes heading into second round
Glaser
PLAYERS EXCITED FOR 
LAST POSTSEASON PUSH
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
This past Saturday marked 
Senior Day at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium, a special outing dedicated Florida's three-member graduating class.
These three women – Delanie 
Gourley, Justine McLean and Chelsea Herndon – will each leave a mark on UF's program that won't be forgotten anytime soon.
The senior class of 2016 was 
full of talented players like Aubree Munro and Kelsey Stewart, who 
become members of Team USA 
upon leaving Gainesville.
But this class is also very 
talented. Gourley boasts one of the lowest ERAs in the country at .80, while McLean and Herndon's hitting has pushed Florida to an on-base percentage of .431 and an RBI total of 311 this season, both 
the highest in the SEC.
So what makes this class so 
special?
“All three always have smiles 
on their faces, and all three of them do it the right way in the 
classroom,” coach Tim Walton  said in a release after Saturday’s game. “But I think the easiest thing I can see is they have a truly infectious positive personality.”
This positivity noted by 
Walton does wonders for a highly-competitive program when it’s coming from its veterans.
Over four years, a high sense 
of positivity can affect practice,  team comradery and how one handles tough situations in big moments.
And that attitude begins 
with the bond the seniors share amongst themselves, which then radiates out to the rest of the program.
“We have been so close for 
the longest time,” McLean said Saturday. “Watching all of us grow over the four years and 
how close we’ve all been…we’ve 
shared so many memories.”
That they have.There’s the two National 
Championships they won as underclassmen.
As as freshman in the 2014 
Women's College World Series, McLean’s pinch running and a 
single late in the second game put 
pressure on Alabama's defense.Then it was Gourley’s clutch 
throwing, as she pitched two perfect frames against Alabama to make sure they wouldn’t have a chance to score.
And as sophomores, talented 
play from each of them secured yet another title.
They also have won three SEC 
Championships, and hope to win a fourth this weekend.
For the three graduates, 
their senior year has shown the improvements in skill that each have made.
But it has also displayed the 
close relationship this team in their ﬁ  nal chapter
“This team is just so amazing,” 
Herndon said in a release on Saturday. “This program is just amazing.”
And while the winning on 
the ﬁ  eld has created numerous 
life-long memories, the team has 
created numerous memories off the ﬁ  eld as well.
“The friendships, the family, 
the winning, the losing what you learn from that,” Gourley said, “I just loved it.”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org
 Softball’s seniors prepare for ﬁ  nal hurrah
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Justine McLean celebrates after reaching base during Florida's 5-0 
win over Georgia on April 8, 2017, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
that just can’t stand each other 
anymore.
Even baseball’s most intense 
rivalries have died down a bit. 
Gone are the days of the Red Sox-
Yankees brawls, like the one in the 2003 ALCS where the benches cleared twice. Today, New York 
and Boston preserves the rivalry 
out of respect, not out of disdain.
If a player does something 
a team doesn’t like, they'll be beaned with a pitch and call it a 
day.
So when Machado injured the 
surgically repaired knee of Dustin 
Pedroia sliding into second base, 
it looked like Machado would just 
get hit by a pitch and that would be the end of it, as most cases are these days.
Instead, Red Sox pitcher 
Matt Barnes threw a heater at Machado’s head, ending any chance of this incident going away quietly. Boston continued 
to target Machado when the two 
teams met again for a four-game series two weeks later. Led by a 97-mph fastball from Chris Sale directed at his knees, the Red Sox tried five times, and failed each time, to hit Baltimore's third baseman, prompting him to call out the Red Sox.
“I mean, if you’re going to 
[expletive] hit me, hit me.”Even the Orioles got in on the 
action, with pitcher Dylan Bundy nailing Mookie Betts in the hip with a fastball. And pitcher Kevin Gausman was ejected after hitting Xander Bogaerts with a 76-mph 
curveball.
There’s nothing like watching 
two teams that just can’t stand 
each other going at it. With pitchers on both sides hitting 
batters in retaliation and players 
calling each other out, the only thing missing from this series was a massive brawl.
Fans need something to look 
forward to in a regular season marred by a lengthy and dull 162-game schedule. There aren’t a lot of instances where teams just 
hate each other and show it when 
they play.
Last season, one of the most 
talked about moments was 
when  Rangers second baseman 
Rougned Odor socked Blue Jays outfielder Jose Bautista in the face during a brawl.
Baseball needs more 
excitement put back into the game, and while I don’t endorse teams breaking out into vioent melees, it’s nice to see something 
different out of a baseball series 
every once and awhile.COLUMN,  from pg13
The Associated Press
Fans sitting atop the "Green Monster" in the left field stands of Fenway Park watch as a solo home run 
from Manny Machado sails over their heads during the sixth inning of a game on May 1, 2017.
the 253 players to have their name called in 
Philadelphia.
“Honestly, I’ve been watching the draft 
since I was … it’s been a long time, man,” Davis said. “Just being able to see it every year 
and just sit at home and watch it and be able to really accept the moment for what it is… it’s 
really special.”
Seven more former Gators were chosen 
in the final six rounds of the draft, with safety Marcus Maye going to the New York Jets, cornerback Quincy Wilson going to Indianapolis, cornerback Jalen Tabor joining 
Davis in Detroit, linebacker Alex Anzalone 
going to New Orleans, offensive tackle David Sharpe going to Oakland, defensive tackle Caleb Brantley going to Cleveland and defensive tackle Joey Ivie going to Dallas.
 Baseball and Softball Gearing up for 
Postseason Play
Florida’s baseball and softball teams both 
appear to be headed for another deep playoff run this June.
Kevin O’Sullivan and his players have 
strung together a season-high nine consecutive victories dating back to April 21, sweeping Georgia and Ole Miss the past two weekends to outscore its opponents 61-34 over that stretch.
The No. 7 Gators (35-13, 16-8 SEC) recent 
play has also been enough to propel them into 
first place in the SEC East standings, giving 
third baseman Jonathan India confidence in his team moving forward.
“We’ve always been that team, we haven’t 
clicked yet,” he said. “Now, we’re clicking.”
Florida has seven games left on its schedule 
before traveling to Hoover, Alabama, for the SEC Tournament on May 23. 
The Gators will face USF at 6:30 p.m. 
tonight at McKethan Stadium.
On the other hand, UF’s softball team 
concluded its regular season on Sunday with a pair of victories over North Texas and Florida A&M.
The Gators won the double-header by a 
combined score of 15-1 and enter postseason play with a whopping 50-5 record.
Starting pitcher Kelly Barnhill finished her 
sophomore campaign with 22 wins and one loss while sporting a 0.33 ERA. Offensively, junior first baseman Kayli Kvistad led all hitters with a .390 batting average.
However, with the SEC Tournament set to 
begin later this week, head coach Tim Walton was quick to caution his team that what it did in the regular season is now in the past.
“It’s a fresh slate,” Walton said. “We have 
zero wins and zero losses, and now it’s time to go out there and compete. Nobody cares about your stats; it’s about the W’s now.”
Playing as the No. 1 seed in the tournament, 
Florida will face the winner of a first-round matchup between Ole Miss and Mississippi State on Thursday at 2:30 p.m. Lacrosse, Women’s Golf Win Conference 
Championships
 UF’s lacrosse and women’s golf teams 
made headlines over the past couple weeks as well, with both programs capturing league titles.
Senior attacker Mollie Stevens led the Gators 
to an 18-12 victory over the Denver Pioneers in the Big East Tournament Final on Saturday, earning Florida its fifth overall conference championship under coach Amanda O’Leary.
Stevens notched a team-high five goals, 
two assists and six draw controls in the outing and tied the Big East record with 10 goals in a single tournament.
“Today was a battle,” O’Leary said following 
the victory. “I couldn’t be more proud of how this team came out from the opening draw and never let up.”
Florida’s lacrosse team now moves on to 
the NCAA Championship, where it will face 
either USC or Jacksonville in the second round 
on Sunday.
For women’s golf, the program won its first 
SEC title since 2008 on April 23 after posting a conference postseason record 22 under par.
Kelly Grassel had an impressive final round 
with eight birdies to finish in third place on the individual leaderboard, while Maria Torres finished in fourth place hitting seven under 
par.
“The girls played fantastic,” coach Emily 
Glaser said after the victory. “Today, we were 
able to put the pedal down after sleeping on the lead, which is hard to do. I was just really impressed with how they managed themselves."
Florida is now in the middle of the NCAA 
Regional Championships, where it posted the 
top score among the 18 teams competing on 
day one of the three day event.
 Articles posted to FloridaGators.com 
contributed to this story.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSUMMER ROUNDUP,  from pg13Florida's baseball team has won nine consecutive games
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Florida attacker Mollie Stevens handles the ball during UF's 15-8 win against Denver 
on Marchy 25, 2017, at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2017
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS FOR 
LADIES + LIVE DJ
BEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJFREE 
WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
1728 West University AvenueNIGHT SPECIALS
$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Shots
$4 First Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ
9 p.m to 2 a.m.NIGHT SPECIALS
$3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
$4 Jager + Fireball 
$6 Double Vodka Redbull
LIVE DJ
9 p.m to 2 a.m.MONDAY NIGHT 
$2 Bud Light Bottles and $2 Sliders 
(Beef, Buffalo Chicken and BBQ Pork)
TUESDAY NIGHT 
$2 Tacos (Chicken and Pulled Pork) 
and $4 Double Wells
THURSDAY NIGHT 
$2 Long Necks, Wells and Wine for 
ladies and $5 Flatbreads (Buffalo 
Chicken and BBQ Pork)WEDNESDAY NIGHT  
$3 Sangria, $3 Craft Cocktail of 
the Week, $3 Craft Beer of the 
Week, and $5 Mac N’ Cheese 
(Buffalo Chicken and BBQ Pork)
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY
$3 Wells and Lemon Drops; $4 Tito’s, Tito’s 
Mules, Swamphead Drafts and First 
Magnitude Drafts; $5 Barbaqoa QuesadillasTH
restau rant & roo ftop barE