We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Student
Living Guide
Fall 2017 Page 9
Men’s basketball team starts 
season 2-0
The Gators cruised to a 108-68 win over North Florida on Thursday, pg. 21. Going vegan for the holidays
Students ate a vegan Thanksgiving meal Thursday, pg. 8. 
Basketball Cop strikes again
The viral cop helps a local teenager start a company, pg. 3.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 36
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE SUSPECT ATTACKED
 THE WOMAN IN THE 
APARTMENT GYM.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is investigat-
ing a sexual battery that happened 
at Tivoli Apartments on Wednesday 
night.
A woman was working out at the 
apartment’s gym, located at 2841 SW 
13th St., when a man knocked on 
the door and she let him in at about 
6:20 p.m., wrote GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. He grabbed the woman and pulled her into the bathroom.
Police said the man attacked the 
woman, punched her in the face and grabbed her throat as he tried to take off her pants.
He exposed himself to her and forced her to perform an unknown 
sexual act, Tobias said.
After, she called 911 and police 
arrived 20 minutes after the incident. 
Responding ofﬁ  cers and a police dog were unable to locate the suspect, 
Tobias said.
The woman told police the 
man was about 18 to 21 years old, 
weighed 180 to 210 pounds and was 
clean shaven. At the time of the at-
tack, the black man was wearing a red, white and blue striped polo shirt and khaki shorts, Tobias said.
“Detectives are out today looking 
for potential witnesses and any other evidence,” Tobias said Thursday.
Ofﬁ  cers increased patrols in the 
area, and UF Public Safety sent out 
an alert to students about the inci-
dent. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD investigating sexual 
battery at Tivoli ApartmentsSophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Jovana Christiani, a 19-year-old Santa Fe College illustration sophomore, outlines the new 
mural on Santa Fe’s walls Tuesday. The mural is set to be ﬁ  nished Saturday. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
For the Alachua County Labor Co-
alition, getting payment for hourly 
UF employees doesn’t begin or end 
with Hurricane Irma.
Members of the labor coalition 
went to the UF Faculty Senate meet-
ing Thursday afternoon to ask for an 
endorsement in support of OPS, or 
Other Personnel Services, employ-ees. They have already received en-dorsements from other groups and nearly 700 people have signed an 
online petition.
The group has been pushing for 
OPS workers, who get paid by the 
hour, to get payment for the days 
they missed when UF was closed for 
Hurricane Irma. Vice President of Human Resources Jodi Gentry said OPS workers are only eligible for time worked and not paid leave, a 
condition mandated in their contract, 
according to Alligator archives.
“I think that, on legal grounds, it’s 
absolutely correct,” said Paul Ortiz, the vice president of UF’s chapter of United Faculty of Florida and a UF 
history professor. “But we’re really 
asking the university to do the right thing.”
Ortiz told the Faculty Senate 
hourly employees were affected by 
the lack of wages on the three days 
UF was closed in September. A paper passed out to members of the labor coalition mentioned employees had 
to rely on emergency food banks and 
charity to make up for the lost wages.
“I believe that personally this is a 
really important issue for us to pay attention to,” Ortiz said as he ad-
dressed the Senate. “Because there 
are hundreds of thousands of wages lost by OPS employees who are our colleagues, counterparts and mem-
bers of the community.”
David Quillen, the chair of the 
Faculty Senate, said the Infrastruc-
ture Council will look over the issue and then bring it to the steering com-
mittee, who will then present a reso-Labor coalition seeks 
support from UF faculty
By Bria Everett
Alligator Contributing Writer
Irish artist Maser will spend 55 hours painting 
one side of Santa Fe College’s Fine Arts building this 
week.
The Dublin, Ireland, based urban artist and ﬁ  ve 
Santa Fe ﬁ  ne arts students started painting the mu-ral Tuesday at 11 a.m. and will ﬁ  nish Saturday. The mural is part of 352walls, a project that uses urban artwork to beautify Gainesville buildings, said Raquel Vallejo, a 352walls project coordinator. Although the exact square footage of the mural is unknown, Vallejo describes it as “very, very big.” 
Maser traveled about 4,042 miles by plane and 
car to paint at Santa Fe. He landed in Florida on Sunday, a day before his paint arrived.
“I like Gainesville a lot,” he said. “It reminds me 
of where I am from.”
Maser studied in London, England, and ﬁ  rst 
practiced street art by spraying grafﬁ  ti on the streets of Dublin in 1995. He said when he moved to Lon-don, its urban landscape inspired him to paint plants.
“I place plants on my artwork because it helps 
with human relationships and interaction with art and the world around us,” Maser said. “London is a lot more city life, which is a lot different from Dub-lin and places like Gainesville.”This mural will be the ﬁ  rst by 352walls outside 
of downtown Gainesville and on a college campus. 
This is the largest mural commissioned by 352walls, 
which has brought in artists from around the world 
and city for three years.
“There is a synergy and everything is coming to-
gether to make Gainesville a hub for urban art and urban studies,” Vallejo said. “This mural is like the 
artist’s business card.” 
The mural will feature many plants such as an 
agave cactus and vibrant colors like light blue, yel-
low and green.
It will cover the back of Building E, which faces 
the gymnasium, a parking lot and a staircase. Maser 
said the staircase plays a role in his design.
“I will make sure that I paint the staircase so 
that when students walk up it, they are integrating into the artwork, and it will become a focal point,” 
he said.
Vallejo said the choice of the artist and location 
was intentional.
“It’s about ﬁ  nding a space and then matching 
the artist with the space,” she said. “It is perfect for him. It really is his style, the mix-ups of angles, 
shapes, sizes and stairs.”
The ﬁ  ve students assisting Maser with the mural 
were picked by the Board of Santa Fe because they Largest mural on Santa Fe 
campus painted this week
SEE OPS,  PAGE 4
SEE MURAL,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
HIGH  76° LOW  48°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. UF’s on-time 
deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA from the federal processor is Dec. 15. 
Financial aid is awarded on a 
first-come, first-served basis, so 
apply as early as possible to be 
considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-sistance with completing your FAFSA, visitfafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid ad-viser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Housing Fair
Student Government’s Fall 
Housing Fair is today from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the North Lawn. Sudents can engage with a wide variety of Gainesville community representatives and gain a better understanding of what off-campus housing com-munities have to offer. This is the easiest way to get familiar with off-campus living options, and a great way to stock up on promotional giveaways. UF re-sources such as Off Campus Life and Student Legal Services will 
also be on hand to help answer 
questions. For more informa-tion, visit sg.ufl.edu/housing-fair.
GatorNights: Latin Beats
Feel the rhythm today at GatorNights: Latin Beats. Show off your competitive spirit with 
dodgeball, and bring some Latin 
heat to the dance floor with a Zumba dance class from 9:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. An annual salsa concert presented by UF’s Union of Active Puerto Rican Students (UEPA) will be from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Musician 
Nelly’s Echo, will perform an 
acoustic set in the Reitz Union Atrium from 8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The featured film, “It,” will show at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 36
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
November 25 &26, 2017 
Saturday 10 am to 9 pm Sunday 10 am to 5 pm
Gainesville is Going Green
Fine Art and Craft Fair   |   Live Music   |    Holiday Lights 
Green Transportation Expo   |    Vegetarian Fare 
Art Bike Auction   |    Free to Public   |    Free Parking
www.greenmanfest.comGreenManFestival
at Depot Park
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Michael Cizek had his cheek 
swabbed outside Library West in November 
2015, he didn’t think anything of it. 
“I didn’t really know what I was signing up 
for,” the 22-year-old said. “I didn’t think I’d 
ever get a phone call.”
But about six months after joining the bone 
marrow registry that day on campus, he did 
receive a phone call. He was a match. After some further blood testing on the 10 
necessary chromosomes to identify a match, the UF marketing senior traveled to Washing-
ton, D.C., in June 2016 to donate bone marrow 
to a man he’d never met. 
Until Thursday, they didn’t know each oth-
er’s name. The two met for the ﬁ  rst time at the Nov. 9 X Ambassadors concert on Flavet Field. Jeffery Turner, the recipient of Cizek’s dona-tion, embraced the man to whom he’s now bonded forever, Turner said.
“You try to think of what you’re going to say to somebody that saved your life,” Turner said. “That’s a hard thing to come up with.”
The 54-year-old settled on the only words 
that seemed appropriate: “Thank you.” 
Cizek said the decision to donate his bone 
marrow was an easy one. 
“It was an opportunity to save someone’s 
life, and I feel like I don’t get too many of those opportunities,” he said. 
Turner was diagnosed with acute myeloid 
leukemia, a type of blood cancer, in February 2015, he said. The disease is deadly and pro-gresses rapidly, said Dr. John Wingard, the di-rector of the bone marrow transplant program at UF Health Shands Hospital. 
“It’s an extraordinary act of generosity of 
that donor to step forward and be a donor,” he said, “to give this person a second chance for life.” 
Turner and Cizek plan to stay in touch. “It’s like I told Michael, you’re part of me 
now,” Turner said. “We’ll be friends from now on.”                                                  @jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org UF student meets man who received his bone marrow  
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
James Edwards never imagined going viral. When the 16-year-old started going door-to-
door last year to work lawns in his Highland Court Manor neighborhood, he did it with nothing more than a rake in hand and the desire to help his par-
ents, 34-year-old Takara and 27-year-old Lathaniel. 
“I wanted to help my mom to pay her bills and 
have my own money I could use,” said Edwards, 
the oldest of seven siblings. 
Then, on a Sunday afternoon, Gainesville Po-
lice’s own “Basketball Cop” saw the eighth-grader in action, took a selﬁ  e with him and sent out a bat signal to promote Edwards’ services via the Basket-ball Cop Foundation Facebook page. Within days, 
his story had been shared across the country on 
Facebook.
Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White took Edwards under his 
wing Oct. 6 after seeing him with his rake looking for lawns to work. White, founder of the Basketball Cop Foundation, has since set out to help the How-ard W. Bishop Middle School student turn his after school lawn services into a full-blown business.
“I think it’s awesome,” White, 48, said. “He 
didn’t depend on anybody, he did what he could with what he had. It’s rare, you don’t see it too much with kids these days.”
After White posted the picture, people from all 
over the country asked how they could help, and a man from Indianapolis even mailed Edwards an iPhone 6s Plus, he said.
On Wednesday, White bought Edwards a red 
mountain bike and mini trailer that attaches on the back. He also put Edwards’ new iPhone on his phone plan and is currently working on a Facebook page for the business, all to help launch the busi-ness, he said. 
White went viral himself in January 2016 after 
police dash cam footage of him playing basketball with kids and teenagers in a low-income neighbor-hood on Northwest 21st Avenue, according to Al-
ligator archives.
From that moment, “Basketball Cop” was born, 
and White launched his nonproﬁ  t of the same 
name to help police around the country connect with their communities. 
“That’s what it’s all about,” White said of his 
foundation and working with kids like Edwards. “Building a relationship between the kids, the cops and the community by whatever means works — 
it’s not just about basketball.”  
Takara, Edwards’ mom, said she’s honored to 
see her son make such an impact and completely 
on his own initiative.
“He’s not out on the street doing bad things, 
he’s doing good things and trying to make some-thing of himself,” she said. “I’m proud of him, I’m really proud.”
                                               @hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Gainesville ‘Basketball Cop’ 
helps teen start lawn business
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Beginning Summer B 2018, incom-
ing freshmen won’t be able to apply for 
the undergraduate athletic training bach-elor’s program in the College of Health and Human Performance.
The Strategic Alliance, a group of na-
tional athletic boards, mandated that ac-credited programs won’t admit students into the undergraduate athletic training program after Fall 2022, said Patricia Tripp, the clinical associate professor in the undergraduate athletic training pro-gram. She said the program’s current stu-dents won’t be affected
Tripp said UF won’t accept students 
into the program in 2018 because it wouldn’t make sense to re-accredit the program, only for it to exist for one year. 
UF will redistribute money to replace 
the graduate athletic training program with a Doctor of Athletic Training Pro-gram, Tripp said.
“It’s not that we’re shutting down 
this post-professional opportunity, we’re just transitioning it to a more appropriate level,” Tripp said.
The new Doctor of Athletic Training Program is expected to accept a maxi-mum of about 25 students per year, start-ing in Summer B 2020, Tripp said.
“You’re going to look for an opportu-
nity that’s going to elevate your creden-tials,” she said. “We’re creating a brand new program at the doctor level so we could grab those students that are getting that professional masters.”
Tripp said shifts in the athletic train-
ing industry caused the program change.
“Because of the evolution of our pro-
fession, the bachelor’s level program is going to potentially be obsolete, and then there will be this need for this doctor of athletic training type of program in order to capture those students who want ad-vanced practice,” she said.
Sabrina Parks, a UF athletic training 
junior, said she heard rumors but ofﬁ  -cially learned of the changes in Summer.
“At ﬁ  rst, I was a little taken aback by 
it, but I think it’s a really good move for our profession, allowing students to have a higher education going into the work ﬁ  eld,” the 28-year-old said. “I just think it’s a big shock to everybody because 
people don’t like change.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgAthletic training program 
to end undergraduate level4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017THE ARTWORK WAS DONE BY 
TWO 9-YEAR-OLD GIRLS.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
While most ice cream trucks play a 
catchy jingle while taking a whirl around 
the neighborhood, this one flashes red and 
blue lights with a siren to announce its 
presence. 
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
unveiled its completed ice cream truck 
Thursday evening at the Hitchcock’s Mar-
kets shopping center in Alachua. More than 100 kids, ages 12 and under, submit-ted artwork for the truck’s design, said Sgt. Paul Pardue, the supervisor of the 
Youth and Community Resource Unit. The 
first-place winner, Alexandra Gleason, and second-place winner, Maya Kamel, got to see their artwork displayed on the 
sides of the truck. 
“Some of our deputies were kind of 
upset; they wanted to do some design,” 
Pardue said. “Unfortunately, we had to exclude them.” 
The ice cream truck is part of Opera-
tion CONE, which stands for Community Outreach Neighborhood Engagement, and is meant to foster better relationships be-
tween deputies and their communities, he said. 
“When we leave, it’s not about who 
was serving the ice cream, it’s not about 
the truck, it’s about that deputy and his 
neighborhood and what he did for them,” 
Pardue said. “He or she is the hero for the day.”
The unit’s goal is to deploy Operation 
CONE at least 10 times monthly, he said. The truck was paid for by donations and cost an estimated $25,000, said ACSO spokesperson Art Forgey.
It is the only ice cream truck that be-
longs to a sheriff’s office fleet in Florida, Pardue said. 
The unit plans to start serving vanilla 
and birthday cake ice cream for free from 
the truck next week, he said.
Alexandra was ecstatic to see her art-
work sprawled on the windows of the 
truck. The 9-year-old decided to draw col-orful ice cream cones melting and doodled 
“Operation Cone” inside them. 
Alexandra considers this artistic debut 
to be the beginning of a bright future. 
“One day I just want to move to (Los 
Angeles) or Hollywood or New York or 
something,” she said. “I want to do art, and I want to do dance and all artistic things.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgOperation CONE: ACSO unveils colorful ice cream truck
Jessica Giles / Alligator Staff
Alexandra Gleason, 9, signs her name on her design, which won first place for the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office’s ice cream truck. The truck’s design was unveiled Thursday as part of Operation CONE, which stands for Community Outreach Neighborhood Engagement.
are enrolled in the arts program on scholarship. The students have been working with Maser from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m., leaving only to attend class.
“It’s very personal, this mural,” 
Maser said. “But it’s also very com-munity-based. I’ll be having students paint alongside of me.” 
During the project, Vallejo said 
she has learned a lot about Maser’s style and his personal history with art. She said his style was inspired by a childhood trip to Uganda. 
“He’s a gem, fun and brilliant,” 
she said.
Maser spoke to Santa Fe students 
Monday night and shared his history with them. On Friday, Maser will demonstrate urban art by painting a smaller mural on the side of Leon-ardo’s 706, located at 706 W. Univer-sity Ave., at 3 p.m. with UF students.
Vallejo said students at Santa Fe 
could gain a lot from Maser’s art.
“We really want the students 
to be involved and see this mural when they go to class,” she said. “352walls’ mission is to keep art alive, especially at a school where fine arts is huge.”
On Monday, Chelsea Bates, a 
Santa Fe journalism sophomore, parked her car, as she does before every school day, in her usual park-ing lot and peered up at the mural taking shape before her. She said she looks forward to passing the com-pleted mural.
“There is so much artwork dis-
played throughout the whole cam-pus, however, to see a live muralist on campus is very cool,” she said. 
Kate Keskinen, an assistant in the 
art gallery on campus, volunteered to work on the mural and thought painting alongside the world-famous street artist was rewarding. She said she is most looking forward to pass-ing the mural on her way to work, knowing she played a role in its con-ception. 
“We are really excited, especially 
because it is the first public art on campus, and happy to be volun-teering to help him, because it’s a chance you do not get very often,” Keskinen said.
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Kate Keskinen, a 27-year-old Santa Fe College employee, helps Jovana Christiani trace the design for Santa Fe’s new mural Tuesday. They helped a Dublin-based urban artist paint the mural. 
lution to the full Senate body. 
He said it’s less the place of the Senate 
to comment on what happened in the past, 
but they can make a statement about OPS 
workers moving forward. 
“I think we as an institution need to evaluate how we use our OPS fee, and is 
the model fair?” Quillen said. 
He said OPS fee is meant for temporary 
or part-time workers, but the average OPS 
employee may be in their position for two or three years. 
“The real hard part is, do we have re-
sources to make a change?” he  said. “That’s something all faculty care about and something President Fuchs cares 
about.” 
Jason Fults, the co-chair of the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition, said he plans to 
meet with UF’s administration one way or another. 
He said OPS workers are treated like 
second-class citizens constantly. For ex-ample, he said, the workers won’t get paid 
time for Thanksgiving Break or sick days 
off.
“It’s not really an isolated incident at all. 
It happens every semester, even if there’s not a storm or a white supremacist.” 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgOPS,  from pg. 1It wants OPS workers to be compensated for missed daysMURAL,  from pg. 1The Santa Fe mural is the largest 352walls has commissioned FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Attention Advertisers
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will NOT  publish on  
Wednesday, November 22 and 
Friday, November 24
Please be aware of the following early deadlines
Display + Classified ads must be finalized by 4 p.m.
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 27DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 20
Display Advertising
352-376-4482Classified Advertising
352-373-3463
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.net
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK songDRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patientsLooking for Team 
Members to bring a 
European medical 
device to market  
in the USA.
• Full or part time,  
flexible hours
• Training and materials 
provided
• No quotas and excellent 
earning potential
• No experience necessary
• Work with UF MBA, 
Nationwide
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705 to start immediately.
THE WOMAN REPORTEDL Y HAD 
DEMENTIA AND MAY HAVE 
WANDERED OFF, POLICE SAID.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly three decades after a 78-year-old 
Gainesville woman went missing, police 
have identiﬁ  ed her remains.
Ella Mae Williams went missing March 
25, 1990. After multiple searches span-ning years, no one could ﬁ  nd her, said Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias at a Thursday morning press confer-ence.
Williams was believed to have wan-
dered from her Gainesville home, then lo-cated at 814 SW 20th St., while living with 
her daughter, Eloise. Williams reportedly 
had dementia, which may have contributed to her going missing, Tobias said.
The remains were found in a wooded 
area south of Southeast 43rd Terrace and 
Southeast 24th Avenue intersection by chil-
dren who were playing nearby in March of 2001, wrote Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesperson Art Forgey in an email.It was only about six months ago when 
investigators, using the National Missing 
and Unidentiﬁ  ed Persons System database 
to ﬁ  nd the victim of an unrelated case, hap-pened upon a report of the human remains.
Investigators found the location of the 
remains and Williams’ old home were with-in 2 miles of each other, near the Lincoln Estates neighborhood.
“They thought it could possibly be her,” 
Forgey said. “That’s when we contacted the family.”
Detectives then sent DNA samples of the 
remains to a Florida Department of Law Enforcement forensics lab in Jacksonville and were able to ﬁ  nd a match with Wil-
liams’ family, he said. Now that Williams’ 
remains have been identiﬁ  ed, police will investigate what exactly caused her death.
Sheriff Sadie Darnell asked everyone at 
the press conference to think of the family and honor the hardship they’ve endured.
“They have had a long, 27-year journey 
ﬁ  lled with emotions and ﬁ  lled with pain 
and grief,” Darnell said. “This is a painful 
time for them.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgPolice: After 27 years, 78-year-old’s remains identiﬁ  edBy Shelby Cohron
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 110 students sat in the grass on 
the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday as 
they tried easing their minds before ﬁ  nal exams arrive. 
The Member Leadership Program’s 
health and wellness committee hosted the free stress-reducing event with the Coun-seling & Wellness Center and GatorWell. Club members gave out information on 
UF resources, hosted stress-reducing ac-
tivities and handed out free food, said Andrea Rangel, a committee member who planned the event. The total cost was 
$175, she said.
Activities included making stress balls 
and bracelets, writing positive messages 
on sticky notes, participating in yoga and talking to experts about reducing stress, 
the 19-year-old UF nursing sophomore 
said.
Rangel said she wanted the event to fo-
cus on mental health instead of physical 
health.
“People really need to be aware of, like, 
just being holistically well,” Rangel said. “You have to invest in yourself as well.”
Students sat in a circle on the grass 
chatting and writing motivational mes-
sages to each other. Christian Suriel, a 
19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance sophomore, made 
a green stress ball from a balloon with 
ﬂ  our ﬁ  lling. 
Suriel said he learned about resources 
provided by the CWC.
“This was a good resource to ﬁ  nd out 
what they are and the services they pro-vide on campus,” Suriel said. “At the end of the day, you really have to take time for 
yourself. So sometimes I will go to Lake 
Wauburg, or I enjoy cooking, so I’ll do 
that for myself.”
Alberto Barcenas, a 22-year-old UF in-
ternational studies senior, tried yoga for 
the ﬁ  rst time. He said he sees how it can 
be relaxing for some, but he preferred the 
other crafts.
Barcenas brought his friend Austin Fel-
ter, a 19-year-old UF international studies 
sophomore, to the event with him. Felter 
said his favorite activity was writing a 
positive message on a sticky note, which he gave to Barcenas. His note said, “Stay true.” Club holds stress-reducing event with GatorWell, CWC
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Students gather Thursday to make stress balls and unwind with a yoga session during the Member Leadership Program’s “Chomp the Stress” event on the Plaza of the Americas. Students were given free pizza, yoga and crafts to help them relax before ﬁ  nal exams.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
You are woken up by the sound of your parents and grand-
parents chatting loudly and energetically over coffee at the kitch-
en table and the smell of pies being prepped for baking. You’re 
still tired, but you get out of bed anyway so you don’t miss any of the family fun. 
You sluggishly pour yourself a cup of coffee and listen to your 
mother tell you how great it is to have you home. After an hour or two of pleasantries, your father declares it’s time to get to 
work and start cooking. There is only one problem — someone 
forgot to buy a turkey.
You and your grandmother are tasked with ﬁ  nding a turkey 
and hastily search every grocery store within a 20-mile radius. Nothing. They are all sold out.
Luckily, you remember hearing about a farm nearby where 
your friend’s family gets their turkey fresh every year. A little creepy — you thought initially — but desperate times call for desperate measures.
Once you and your grandmother arrive at the farm, the farm-
er invites you to pick out a turkey you’d like. Still a little bit spooked by the entire situation, you meander your way toward 
the fenced-in area where the birds are held.
While investigating the birds, you realize one seems to be 
looking at you, as if it wants to talk to you. Sure enough, it opens its beak and says:
Darts & Laurels
This past week, unfortunately, has left us with plenty of darts 
to choose from. The ﬁ  rst and most obvious dart we’ve been 
struck with are the numerous sexual assault allegations coming 
out against prominent politicians and high-proﬁ  le celebri-ties. It feels like lately every time we get a news notiﬁ  cation on 
our phones or check Twitter, another pedophile is being dubbed.
While it is disheartening and troublesome to learn the reality 
behind people we may have once looked up to, these allega-tions have oddly gifted us with a laurel at the same time. Al-
though the discourse about assault has become rather trying to endure, we are pleased to see it is ﬁ  nally getting the attention it 
deserves. In terms of politicians, many prominent Republicans have called for Roy Moore’s removal from the Alabama Senate. For actors like Kevin Spacey, Netﬂ  ix has stopped production of 
his show “House of Cards” despite the popularity and business it 
brought to the company. Hollywood tycoons like Harvey Wein-stein have been removed from companies they spent much of 
their lives building up.
Many of the allegations that have surfaced in recent weeks 
are decades old. Nonetheless, they are being treated with merit and taken seriously. We are so proud about the way the public 
has reacted to the many allegations coming to light.
In Washington, however, our commander in chief contin-
ues to disappoint us. President Donald Trump announced 
Wednesday the remains of elephants legally hunted in African nations such as Zimbabwe and Zambia can now be imported to 
the U.S. as trophies. His decree reverses a ban started by former 
President Barack Obama to increase conservation efforts.
Trump has also forced America to leave the Paris climate 
agreement, making us the only nation in the world who is not in agreement with it. His moves in terms of conversation are both embarrassing and petrifying. Per usual, Trump has granted us 
our last dart of the week.
Thankfully, one laurel we all have to look forward to is less 
than one week away. We soon get to sit around a table with our closest friends and family and stuff our faces with turkey, stuff-
ing and pumpkin pie.
With ﬁ  nals looming over us and a State of the Union that isn’t 
so favorable, we could all use the distraction of a family holiday.Remembering to be thankful: A life of gratitude 
In 2004, after serving as a college dean for 
two years, I asked my director of human resources for input on my performance. 
She had a long list of areas needing im-
provement and one area in which she 
thought I was strong. I don’t remember all the areas needing improvement, but I do remem-
ber the one area in which she offered a com-
pliment. She said I frequently thanked people for what they did and who they were, and ev-ery time I said thank you to someone it made a positive impact on the college.
After that feedback, I redoubled my efforts to say 
thank you and to cultivate a culture of gratitude.
I’ve since learned expressing thanks not only has a 
positive impact on other people and organizations, but 
it also enhances our immune systems, sleep, stress lev-
els and personal relationships. Like every UF student this week, I am sleep deprived and also ﬁ  ghting off a cold, and thus today I need to give extra thanks.  
First, I’m grateful for every UF employee. Particular-
ly Emily Chandler, who I greet in the wee hours of the morning as she cleans the second ﬂ  oor of Tigert Hall. I’m grateful for professor Karen Bjorndal, to whom we presented the Archie Carr Medal on Wednesday night 
in recognition of her 40 years of research on sea turtles, 
and all our many faculty members who challenge and inspire students with their exceptional teaching.
On Tuesday, I attended professor Steve Noll’s Ameri-
can history class, as I do once a semester. It will take 
me 30 years to complete the course, but hopefully I’ll 
still be president then and professor Noll will give me course credit. 
I’m grateful for every one of UF’s amazing students, 
particularly the 49,537 with whom I have taken a photo and the 328 who still need to learn how to pronounce my last name in order to fulﬁ  ll the new addi-tional graduation requirement.
I’m thankful for the record about 38,500 
applicants who applied by this week’s dead-line to be members of the 2022 class of Flor-ida Gators. I’m also thankful for UF’s about 400,000 bats that joined me for a Facebook 
Live broadcast on Allhallows Eve at the Bat 
House, the largest in the world. Unlike most celebrities, the bats appeared punctually 
shortly after sunset, awing the assembled crowd as they do every night of the year. 
I’m grateful for the Krishna Lunch of basmati rice, 
eggplant with kofta balls, salad with almond dressing, halava and tea I enjoyed Tuesday while sitting on the Plaza of the Americas.
Finally, I’m thankful for Thanksgiving Break. Linda 
and I will be with our children and grandchildren in 
Chicago on Thursday, after which we will return to 
Gainesville in time for Saturday’s football game in The Swamp against Florida State University. I wish for ev-eryone a break ﬁ  lled with rejuvenation as we prepare 
for the last few weeks of the semester.
In his column on gratitude two years ago in The New 
York Times, David Brooks quoted G. K. Chesterton: 
“Thanks are the highest form of thought, and gratitude is happiness doubled by wonder.” I wish for all Gators 
not only a blessed Thanksgiving Break, but also a life 
ﬁ  lled with gratitude.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president.
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“I wish for everyone a break illed with rejuvenation 
as we prepare for the last few weeks of the semester.”
Kent Fuchs
UF presidentFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
The saying “Jack of all trades, master of 
none” might apply to most areas of life, but I don’t believe art is one of them. 
Out of all the types of skills to have, ar-
tistic competency has to be one of the 
most malleable because of its inclusion of more than simply technical ability. Making broad 
generalizations about anything creatively done 
is something worth straying away from, but I 
think there is something to be said about what 
makes truly great art.
Artistic interpretation might be able to 
be critiqued objectively by a trained eye and 
conditioned mind, well-versed in the various 
schools and techniques, but in the end subjec-tivity dominates. Cubism probably has some artistic merit and technical value, but to me I feel nothing when I look at it. This doesn’t 
mean it is bad art, it just means I don’t particu-
larly enjoy it. A work of art can be technically 
good, but lacking on a deeper level.
I love the Hudson River School, a mid-19th 
century art movement, and all of the magniﬁ  -
cent landscape paintings of early America that 
came out of it, but it’s not solely the beauti-
ful nature scenes and warm colors that at-tract me to it; it’s the history that lies beneath each canvas. They are not just realistic paintings of the 
Catskill Mountain range in New 
York, but an untamed continent 
waiting to be explored. I don’t see 
a romantic painting of upstate New 
York; I see a massive and intimi-
dating wilderness glaring back at 
me, daring someone to traverse it. 
The paintings are physical embodi-
ments of the Manifest Destiny, and it is this 
historical substance underneath each Hudson 
River School painting that lures me in.
To enjoy art is to not simply acknowledge 
a certain aptitude or competence present in 
it. True appreciation and enjoyment comes from something far more abstract and shape-
less. Good art brings meaning to the table and 
is more than just colors, shapes or sounds. 
It evokes new feelings and thoughts you 
wouldn’t have otherwise conjured up. A much 
harder element to understand is the artist.
Artists successful in one medium are likely 
successful because they create art people en-
joy, but I have never understood why so few artists dabble in other forms of ex-pression. It doesn’t matter if a mu-sician isn’t trained in painting or if 
a sculptor isn’t trained in songwrit-
ing. It’s about more than technical 
skill; it’s about expression. A suc-
cessful artist in one medium has 
already demonstrated a mastery of 
expressing themselves and creating 
something from nothing. Other-
wise, they wouldn’t have achieved 
such success. Since the true distinguishing fac-tor in good art is the ability to express or evoke 
deep ideas and emotions through it, I feel like 
these individuals would create far better art in a new format than many would think.
What brought these thoughts to mind was 
the recent release of “Neo Yokio,” an anime 
TV series on Netﬂ  ix. What makes “Neo Yokio” 
unique is its creator, Ezra Koenig, the front 
man of the rock band Vampire Weekend. “Neo 
Yokio” has not received positive reviews at all. 
Many online reviews have already deemed it 
a failed attempt at anime and express opin-
ions that Koenig needs to stick to his day job 
of writing music, but I do not think so. “Neo Yokio” is evidence of a genuine creator, a bor-derless artist with a strong sense of direction. Great artists transcend a single medium and 
simply create. An artist’s stylistic touch can 
manifest itself across all mediums of expres-
sion. “Neo Yokio” somehow feels related to a 
Vampire Weekend album, an abstract connec-
tion that traverses mediums. Such an effect is 
due to common themes woven between both 
projects, in a way making them part of the 
same family. The show confronts the topics of 
wealth and urban love and is a satirical take 
on our entire class system — the same themes 
present in Vampire Weekend’s catalog.
The concept of a multiplatform artist is trag-
ically underused and should be encouraged. 
The ability to create impactful art is found in very few, and the transition across mediums 
is admirable. So what if “Neo Yokio” turns out 
to be a failure? If it crashes and burns, then its 
shortcomings will only amount to a business 
failure, not an artistic one.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
When I ﬁ  rst read Tom Stoppard’s 
play, “Rosencrantz and Guilden-
stern are Dead,” I was in what I like to dub the ﬁ  rst great existential cri-
sis of my life. It was my senior year 
of high school and the only thing that gave me 
any sense of purpose in my life was focusing 
on college applications. Getting into college — my top choice, speciﬁ  cally — was the only goal 
I had. After that, I wasn’t sure what I wanted 
to study or what I wanted to do. I was begin-
ning to realize the be-all and end-all of my high 
school life was not the be-all and end-all of life.
A brief summary of “Rosencrantz and Guil-
denstern are Dead” is:
Two minor characters from “Hamlet” fum-
ble around on stage, knowing they have a spe-
ciﬁ  c task they have to complete, realize the task 
is for naught, and then come to terms with the 
fact they are going to die. 
It’d be pretty bleak if it was not punctuated 
by sharp wordplay, witty banter and a deep friendship. 
That play gave me life my se-
nior year of high school, if only by reminding me life had no meaning. 
A paradox, it may seem, but there was a great comfort in knowing my 
be-all and end-all of getting into my 
dream school could be tossed away as insigniﬁ  cant. 
I read “Rosencrantz and Guilden-
stern are Dead” two more times — 
once during a messy breakup and 
again this semester. During the breakup, read-
ing it provided me with the perspective that life 
goes on, we are on a boat being carried away to 
our fates, and what happens will happen. This 
year, I read it with the perspective of someone 
who had lost a friend.
I will not get into the details of either situ-
ation; that is not what I am going for in this 
column.
The point I want to make is literature is something we can turn back to at different points in our lives and 
each time, come away with another sense of who we are and what life is. 
It goes beyond our little pockets of ourselves — literature is something 
that has sustained time, and we use 
it to connect with others across cen-turies.
When we read, we don’t just 
read to be entertained, though I am 
sure that is what a lot of us think. 
When we read, when we watch movies and television, when we consume media, there is 
a part of us that wants to identify with what 
is presented to us. Now that is not always the 
case, but it happens regardless of whether we 
are consciously aware of it. It is not just the 
characters, but also the themes of the stories. 
Someone once tried to tell me the reason 
literature and art were not important was be-cause “nothing changes … ‘West Side Story’ is the same thing as ‘Romeo and Juliet.’” At 15, I was shocked into silence. At 21, I want to 
ﬁ  nd this guy again and argue that he has com-pletely missed the point of literature. The point 
of literature is I can pick up a copy of “Sense and Sensibility,” written more than 200 years 
ago, and pinpoint moments that exactly reﬂ  ect 
the nature of my relationship with my sister. The point of literature is almost everyone has 
that one book they return to, again and again, 
whether for comfort or for guidance, and there 
are hundreds of people out there who turn to 
that same book — whether for the same rea-
son or for different ones. The point of literature 
is we can look back at it and ﬁ  nd something 
about ourselves we did not realize, or some-
thing someone hundreds of years ago also 
learned. 
Petrana Radulovic is an English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.True art and artists are not limited to just one medium
Literature stands the test of time — in ourselves and in the worldColumn
Column
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
Months of preparation, research and data 
analysis made three UF finance seniors winners 
and $1,000 richer.
Kristen Mousa, 21, James Goyer, 22, and Paul 
Stanley, 22, won first place at the 2017 Harvard University Stock Pitch Competition on Saturday against competitors from schools throughout 
North America, including New York University, 
Cornell University and the University of Texas at Austin.
The win came less than a month after the team 
won at the University of Michigan, Goyer said. 
Goyer and Stanley also won similar competitions 
at Ohio State University and the University of Georgia earlier in the year.
In Harvard’s competition, teams chose a stock 
and made a presentation based on research and data analysis to explain why a person should buy or sell their stock.
Initially, 45 schools sent in proposals, Mousa 
said. The UF team was chosen as one of 18 semi-
finalists to travel to Cambridge, Massachusetts, to 
present their pitch to professionals in the finan-cial services industry.
“It’s a great learning opportunity for once we 
get into our careers, because when you’re in the real finance world, there’s a lot of presentation-making, a lot of speech-giving, a lot of data analy-sis,” Mousa said.
The trip was sponsored by UF’s master of sci-
ence in finance combined degree program, which the three students belong to, and alumni dona-tions, Mousa said.
The UF team chose Seritage Growth Proper-ties, a retail real estate investment trust that leas-es its properties to big retailers, as their stock, Mousa said.
Seritage’s biggest client, Sears, is approach-
ing bankruptcy, which has caused the company’s stock to perform poorly, Mousa said. She said the team’s pitch focused on a special deal Seritage 
has with Sears to pay below the market rate for 
retail rent, allowing them to take back some prop-erties from Sears each year.
She said the biggest challenge was conveying 
the information in a 10 to 12 minute presentation. 
The team practiced in front of UF students and 
faculty several times to ensure their presentation was comprehensive, she said.
Each team member put in nearly 100 hours 
over the course of three months to prepare, Goyer said.
UF’s team advanced to the final round against 
the University of Waterloo from Ontario, Canada, after both schools won in their brackets. The final 
presentation was in front of judges and an audi-
ence of about 60 people, Goyer said. 
“To come out on top and be able to learn so 
much within that preparation process and then 
get rewarded for it was a really great feeling,” 
Goyer said.
Goyer said despite having competed in many 
competitions before, this one felt different be-cause of the high-quality schools competing. He 
said it felt good to beat Ivy League schools.
“To be able to represent the University of 
Florida on such a big stage, especially in front 
of some of the most elite schools and prominent 
professionals within financial services and, es-
sentially, the world, to be up there and represent the Gator Nation, it’s a great feeling,” Goyer said.UF finance team wins Harvard 
Stock Pitch Competition
THEY RAN OUT OF FOOD IN 
20 MINUTES .
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
To show students, vegan and non-
vegan alike, meatless options, the UF 
Student Animal Alliance held a free 
Thanksgiving feast — with no sec-
onds.
Sejal Shah, a co-president of the 
UF Student Animal Alliance, said the 
event’s food ran out in about 20 min-
utes and fed about 70 people. The organization hosted the feast on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday.
She said for students on a vegan 
diet, Thanksgiving can be especially challenging.
“A lot of family members will not 
necessarily agree with your view,” the 21-year-old said. “You can re-spect them. You don’t have to force your views down on them, but you can also show them another alterna-tive, another option that you have for 
Thanksgiving.”
Shah said the event cost about 
$100 and was sponsored by peta2 
and VegFund. The Student Animal 
Alliance gave out vegan holiday 
cookbooks along with plates of veg-an Tofurky, which is made out of soy meat, breading, vegetable starches and spices. They also handed out 
mashed potatoes, gravy and brown-ies.
“You can have an amazing holi-
day meal that doesn’t have to harm 
any animals or doesn’t have to harm 
the earth at all,” the UF English and 
biology senior said.
Shah said she became a veg-
an about two years ago when she 
learned more about animal cruelty.
“We know the holiday season is 
about compassion and love and fam-
ily, so why can’t we extend that to our nonhuman animal friends?”
Kayla Buch was one of the few 
students able to grab a plate of vegan options before all the food was gone. She said she is excited to show her 
mom some of the vegan recipes she 
learned about.
“I think it’s really cool that they 
made this event kind of holiday in-spired to kind of show you that you 
can be vegan,” the UF chemical engi-
neering sophomore said.
Buch, 19, said she hopes to start 
eating vegan next year when she 
lives in her own apartment.
“I live in a dorm, and I know that 
might be a pretty selfish answer, but 
it is kind of hard to prepare food, and I know being vegan in a healthy way 
is about preparing a lot of fruits and 
vegetables,” Buch said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgAnimal activist group 
hosts vegan feast
One tree, one planet
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Above:
Museum guests enjoy a short Pixar-style animated film called “TreeT ender” by James Oliverio 
and the UF Digital Worlds Institute.
Left:
The diversity of life on Earth as art and science collide in a series of one-of-a-kind multimedia experiences.On Thursday evening, “One Tree, 
One Planet” premiered at the Florida Museum of Natural History. The eve-ning included a film from UF’s Digital Worlds Institute and an interactive out-door light projection by internationally renowned artist Naziha Mestaoui de-picting the tree of life.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   1
Fall 2017Student 
Living Guide
352-448-2282
The code for waived app 
& admin fees: 
URNICHE
*Limited Time Only.  
Restrictions Apply. *
352-415-4376
The code for waived app & 
admin fees: 
URNOOK
*Limited Time Only.  
Restrictions Apply. *
“It’s not a room, it’s a Lifestyle.”
Newly Renovated  
Interior Units & Amenities
Millions in Renovations!
Rates as low as $449!ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeWhat is Off Campus Life?
HOUSING LOCATOR SERVICE:  This 
online resource allows students search for 
off-campus housing, find subleases, post 
subleases, and find roommates too. Visit 
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu to utilize this 
service.
GATOR GUIDE TO OFF CAMPUS LIFE:   This 
annual publication provides tips and resources 
for finding the right apartment, questions to 
ask when touring apartments, safety tips, a 
map of the city and much more.  T o get a copy 
of the Gator Guide, visit OCL ’s office inside the 
Housing Office at 1304 Diamond Road or click 
on the PDF version www.ufsa.ufl.edu/uploads/
ocl/2017-2018_Gator_Guide_to_Off_Campus_
Life.pdf found through the OCL website. MONTHL Y NEWSLETTER:  OCL sends a 
monthly electronic newsletter to all off 
campus students.  T opics include safety 
information, monthly specific resources and 
opportunities, fun stuff and much more.  If you 
would like to receive the OCL newsletter, visit 
the OCL website www.offcampus.ufl.edu and 
click on the newsletter link.
OFF CAMPUS AMBASSADORS: The 
Off Campus Ambassadors are a student 
organization sponsored by off Campus Life 
and their mission is to connect students to the 
on and off campus community by educating 
students and helping them to connect to 
both the UF and Gainesville communities. T o 
learn more and to apply to be an OCA, visit 
the OCA webpage.  www.offcampus.ufl.edu/
off_campus_ambassadors/. DISCOVER GAINESVILLE:  Off Campus Life’s 
newest event series, Discover Gainesville, 
allows you to visit local hotspots.  Spring 
events include a hiking at Paynes Prairie 
and a Florida baseball game.  T o learn more 
about Discover Gainesville, follow our 
event on Facebook www.facebook.com/
UFOffCampusLife or visit the OCL website 
www.offcampus.ufl.edu/events. 
LEARN MORE:   Visit our website www.
offcampus.ufl.edu for information about 
Off Campus Life’s resources and services.  
Also, follow and like UF Off Campus Life  
on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, 
YouTube and Pinterest for daily updates and 
reminders of OCL events, tips and fun things 
going on in the community.UF’s, Off Campus Life office provides resources, services, education 
and support for the 40,000 UF students living off campus.  OCL aims to 
provide programs and services that will help prepare you to be a great 
Gator neighbor, here in Gainesville or wherever the road may take you.
Off Campus Life, which is part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services and 
resources to UF students living off campus since 2004.  OCL ’s support services and resources include:
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENTFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
•	Zero	Entry	Resort	Style	Pool	and	Spa	Deck
•	18’	Poolside	Jumbotron 	with	Private		
Pool	Cabanas
•	Community 	Fire	Pit	and	Lounge	Hammock 	Setup
•	Starbucks	Coffee 	Bar
•	Fitness/Yoga 	Studio
•	11,000+	Sq	Ft	Clubhouse 	with	24	Hour	Resident	
Access
•	Interactive 	Media-Equipped 	Smart	Study	Rooms
•	Additional 	Study	Lounges 	Located	on	Each	Floor
•	Courtyard 	Grilling	Station	and 	Seating	Bar	Area
•	Multi-Media 	Entertainment 	Center	&	Video	
Gaming	Lounge
THE9GAINESVILLE.com • 1404 W UNIVErSITy AVE, SUITE 10, GAINESVILLE, FL • 352.389.5383
TExT NINEGAINESVILLE To 47464 To STA y Up To dATE ! @THE9GAINESVILLE•
Everyone who signs on 11/17 will receive 
waived fees for a total savings of $398! ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
Getting Started
Gainesville has an abundance of off-campus housing options including apartments, 
condos, houses and rooms for rent, so take your time and be sure to visit 5-6 properties in person before signing a lease.  Follow the steps and tips below for finding the right place for you:
• Use UF’s Off Campus Housing Locator Service at http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a property that allows you to live within your means.
• Create a priority list.  What do you care about most in a living space?  Room size, rent, type of lease, type of community (large undergraduate population, graduate students, local residents, etc.), location, proximity to campus or bus route…all these things are factors to consider when choosing a place to live.  Devise a list of ideal characteristics you want in your future living space and keep these criteria in mind when selecting a location.
• Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to live alone.  Know what kind of person would best complement your personality and choose accordingly.
• Drive around and visit the property and neighborhood you are looking to live in.  
• T ake a tour of the complexes or houses that interest you, ask questions, and get to know the complex management or rental house landlord.
• Ask your friends for advice on where to live.  Which properties worked well for them?  Which didn’t?
• Visit the Crime Reports website www.crimereports.com to view crime statistics before signing a lease.  
• Go back to the property at night and make some observations.  Is it well lit, is the property well maintained, do you see the security guard that management promised, is the security gate working, is it quiet enough to sleep or study, how close is the bus stop or parking to the complex or house?
• Once you’ve narrowed down your search, make an appointment with UF’s Student Legal Services by going to their website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu and click on the Apply for Services link to set up an appointment. 
• Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent and live so have fun with your search.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7w
Actual prize may vary. Prizes, date & fees subject to change. Limited time only. While supplies last. See office for details.
AmericanCampus.com/GainesvilleTake a tour & get the 
ULTIMATE PROMO PACK +  
SMOKIN’ NOTES GIFT CARDS
Includes a Gator t-shirt, water 
bottle, coaster bottle opener, tumbler, sunglasses & more!
Save up to $314   
with zero downto 313131  by Nov 19th & enter to  
win an iPhone XTEXT “GATORS” ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
227 NW 23rd Ave
Gainesville, FL 32609maggie@carpet1floorandhome.com352.380.9797Maggie Crane
Manager/Owner15%
discount
CarpetOne.com
®
Eyes Up.
Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT  
& DRIVE.
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
T ypes of Leases
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease before signing.  A lease is a 
contract between you and your landlord that spells out specific details of your living arrangement.  
Leases often involve policies about pets, security and pet deposits, legal entry and other important 
information.  Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 months. If you will need your place for 10 
months or less, talk with the management about whether they can provide you a short-term lease.  
There are two types of leases that are usually available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.
JOINT LEASE:  All roommates are held responsible for the lease.  If one person breaks the lease, 
the other roommates are held responsible for paying the total rent.  This tends to be the lease 
more prominent when renting a house or single family dwelling.
 
INDIVIDUAL LEASE:  Each person is held responsible for his or her own actions.  For instance, if 
one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still responsible for pa ying their own rent.  For most 
college students, individual leases are the best choice.  Each person in the lease is responsible for 
his or her own actions and not the actions of a roommate.  Roommates
Having a roommate is a great way to divide the cost of 
living off campus, but if you don’t find the right person to live 
with, living off campus could be challenging.  Below are some 
tips that will help you if you are thinking about living with a 
roommate.
• Communication is key.  T alk about your budget for 
housing, expectations for safety, expectations for guests, 
and what your housing needs are before you even begin 
your search.  Being on the same page will help reduce the 
possibility for furture conflict. 
• Start with a friend or sibling.  These are often good 
options for roommates since you already know them.
• Before moving in, establish an agreement about who 
will get which bedroom and bathroom along with which 
cabinets/storage space each person can use.
• Discuss how payment of rent and bills will take place.  
Is each person responsible for their own bills or will 
someone be in charge of collecting payment from each 
roommate?
• Don’t have someone you want to live with?  Some 
apartment complexes offer “Roommate Matching” or 
“Roommate Placement. ”
o Roommate Matching: You fill out a survey and 
management attempts to match you with like 
roommates based on the information you provide 
them
o Roommate Placement: Apartment management 
places you in any open space they have available
• Make sure you can change apartments if management 
places you with roommates you are not compatible with.
• Off Campus Life’s Housing Locator http://housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu has a FREE roommate finder feature 
where you can search for roommates.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeCLAUSES TO LOOK FOR IN A LEASE: 
• Dates of occupancy
• Amount of monthly rent and the date it is 
due each month
• Amount of Application Fees, Security 
Deposit, Redecoration Fees and any other 
fees charged
• Responsibility for payment of utilities
• Responsibility for general maintenance and 
repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 month lease, 
but think you may need the dwelling for a 
shorter period of time, make sure the lease 
allows you to sublease (rent your dwelling 
to another person who will assume the 
remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of lease: Joint vs. IndividualCLAUSES TO A VOID IN A LEASE: 
• At management’s discretion, the tenant 
may be asked to leave within three days
• T enant waives all defects in the building
• Landlord shall not be responsible for injury 
to person, including tenant and guests, as a 
result of any cause
• T enant is responsible for all repairs to 
premises 
• Landlord may enter dwelling without notice
• Landlord has a lien (a legal claim on the 
property of another as security for the 
payment of a debt) on all personal property 
of tenant
A great University of Florida resource 
available to full-time students is Student Legal 
Services.  For any questions on your lease, 
visit the Student Legal Services website www.
studentlegalservices.ufl.edu and set up an 
appointment with a lawyer to help review it 
BEFORE you sign it. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
      NW 39th Ave.
NW 16th Ave.  NW 23rd Ave. 
NW 8th Ave.  
SW 2nd Ave.SW 75th St. 
NW 43rd St.  
Main St. 
SE  Williston Rd. Depot Ave.
SW 35th Pl.
SW 27th St.SW 23rd 
NE Waldo Rd. Archer Rd.UF
Windmeadows Blvd.
             S W 62nd Blvd.                                  W. Newberry Rd. W University Ave.  SW 34th St. 
       SW 20 
 th A ve.Hull Rd.
SW 13th St. SE 16th Ave.
75INTERSTATENW 83rd St. 
SFC
1
52
64
83
7
3205 NW 83rd St1015 NW 21st Ave.
207 SE 2nd Pl.6137
2
45
31
9     2777 SW Archer Rd.
4000 SW 
37th Blvd
3700 SW 27th St
10
1414
2900 SW 
23rd T err.11
505 SW 2nd Ave.12
710 SW Depot Ave.
131012
APARTMENTS
8
9
11
3415 SW 
35th Blvd
1216 SW
2nd Ave.1404 W University Ave
2801 NW 23rd Blvd303 NW 
17th St.
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Safety Tips
Both personal and property safety is important as you search 
for off-campus housing.  Before signing a lease, Off Campus Life 
recommends you check the crime stats of an area before moving 
there.  A great resource is the Crime Report website www.
crimreports.com which allows you to see all reported crime in a 
certain area.
Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your 
apartment search:
1. Go back to the complex at night.  How do you feel?  Is the 
place well-lit and populated or dark and isolated?
2. Does the property have working security gates and/or 
guards?
3. Check for dead bolts on the outside door, locks for individual 
doors, alarm systems, etc. and ask lots of questions about the 
security.  Is there an extra charge for a security system?
4. Has there been crime in the area recently?  What actions 
have been done to prevent crime from happening?
5. Don’t forget about purchasing Renters Insurance to protect 
you and your stuff from the unexpected.If you are thinking about renting a house or 
apartment, renters Insurance provides important 
coverage for both you and your possessions. A 
standard renters policy protects your personal 
property in case of theft or damage and may pay 
for temporary living expenses if your rental is 
damaged (including loss of use). It can also shield 
you from personal liability. Anyone who leases a 
house or apartment should consider this type of 
coverage. 
T alk with your parents before getting your 
own renters policy.  If you are still financially 
dependent on your parents or a family member 
and they own a home, they might be able to 
cover you under their homeowners insurance 
policy.  Some homeowner policies will cover a 
dependents rental property while in college.  There are several types of residential insurance 
policies.  Read your policy information carefully 
and ensure you have full coverage.  Policies 
should include the following items: 
• Fire or lightning 
• Windstorm or hail 
• Explosion 
• Aircraft 
• Vehicles 
• Smoke 
• Vandalism or malicious mischief 
• Theft 
• Damage by glass or safety-glazing  
 material that is part of a building 
• Falling objects 
• Water-related damage from home  
 utilities 
• Electrical surge damage
Floods, earthquakes, and hurricanes aren't on 
the list. If you live in an area prone to one or more 
of the three, you'll need to buy a separate policy 
or a rider. In areas where hurricanes can pose 
a threat, you might also need to buy a separate 
rider to cover wind damage.  Ask your insurance 
agent about this extra coverage.  Gainesville is 
prone to hurricanes and some areas flood.
1. What is the monthly rent?
2. What’s included in that rent?  Utilities, 
gas, water, cable, Internet?
3. What’s not included in rent?  What 
is the average monthly cost for gas, 
electric, water, garbage disposal?  If 
management doesn’t know, contact 
GRU at www.gru.com and they can 
give you average costs of utilities for 
the previous year.
4. Want to have a pet?  Factor in the 
deposit and monthly cost for food, 
medical and grooming care.
5. Don’t forget the insurance.  Before 
you sign your lease, call your 
insurance company and see how much 
it will cost monthly to insure your 
apartment or house.
6. Are you going to need fuel for your 
vehicle or are you going to use the 
bus?  Factor transportation/car 
maintenance costs into your budget.7. How much will you spend monthly on 
groceries or on a meal plan?
8. Have some fun!  Don’t spend so much 
on rent that you don’t have money for 
fun stuff.
9. What do you spend on clothing, shoes 
and accessories? 
10. How much money can you save 
every month?  It’s really good to save 
some money every month to cover 
unexpected emergency expenses.  
Even $20 a month saved is good.  
Every little bit counts. 
Your living environment plays a major 
factor in your overall happiness level.  
Know what you want to get out of your 
living space and choose your location and 
roommate(s) accordingly.  Gainesville is 
home now so let Off Campus Life help 
you get the most out of your off-campus 
experience.
Budgets
You can’t find the right place to live until you know how much 
you are able to spend.  Here are some budget questions you 
should think about while touring a property:Renters Insurance
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus Life
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608
Century 21 Elite Locations
Call Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      11-17-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
1999 MERCEDES BENZ E430
Almost brand new. Runs excellent.
$6000/OBO. Call 352-226-0205     11-17-3-
12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       11-17-17-6-14
PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's PlaceExperience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience preferred. Must have director's credential. Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils 
& internet incl. Grad student preferred. 
Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242- 2649.     11-17-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Another Saturday night 
without a date?
Read The Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20Paparazzi, LuLaRoe, LipSense
ONE STOP HOLIDAY SHOP
Saturday Nov 18th 5-7pm
visit fb.me/paparazziwithsarabeth$5 Jewelry, Clothing, Makeup     11-17-17-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  ____ Globes
1.  ____ road5.  Bad
2.  Raising 6.  Indicate, mean
3.  Racetrack shape7.  Concurred 
4.  Influenced DNGLEO
ALEGVRFLAUW
ILYMP
TINGILF
LSLEPEIDRAGEE
EDYWSAANSWERS: 1A-Golden  5A-Awful  6A-Imply  7A-Agreed
1D-Gravel  2D-Lifting  3D-Ellipse  4D-Swayed  B-Valley Forge11-17-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is located 18 miles
northwest of Philadelphia. BONUSACROSS
1 “Holy cow!”
6 “Atta girl!”9 Like thinkers
14 Group that
bestows a
“Select”
distinction on fiveboard gamesannually
15 Barnyard mother
16 Paris parting
17 Arkansas’ __
National Forest
18 X, maybe
19 Something to talk
about
20 Kit__ bar
21 Ones responsible
for paper cuts,
briefly?
23 Comedian Rogan
25 39-Acr. locale26 Like Vivaldi’s
“Spring”
27 More diverse
29 Suffix with brom-
30 “Bambi” doe31 Jane of fiction32 __ Island: NYC
prison site
34 Blood fluids36 Director
Riefenstahl
38 Buenos __
39 Landmark that, in
a way, is aborder feature ofthis puzzle and ahint to what’smissing from 10answers
42 Gumby’s pony45 Othello, for one46 Workers’ rights
org.
50 “... through __
window breaks?”
52 Together, in
Toulon
54 Back to front?
55 Line score initials
56 Taken (with)58 Egg: Pref.59 In the manner of60 P.O. box item61 Short order?62 Badminton need63 Familia member65 Tuna variety
67 Tippett’s “King
Priam,” for one
69 “King Priam” is
based on it70 “Kidding!”
71 Argentine soccer
superstar
72 Dogs in the
AKC’s Working
Group
73 Bonobo, for one
74 Wheeler Peak’s
national park
DOWN
1 Blue Ridge range
2 “The Card
Players” artist
3 Winning steadily
4 Train syst. across
Russia
5 “I wanna go too!”6 LAX-to-JFK flight
shortener
7 Be shy8 Dog star9 Stand-up’s need
10 Words often
heard after “shall
live?”
11 Colder
12 Tragic heroine of
Irish legend
13 Considerable
achievement
22 Watson’s creator24 Anthem
preposition28 Offered free use
of, as a library
book
33 Pottery oven
35 Treated like wine
37 “You’re safe with
me”
40 Some field starters
41 Red-headed
Disney princess
42 Oldest of the
Seven Wonders
43 “Très chic!”44 Add, as raisins to
bread dough
47 Elsa or Nala
48 Game with two-
toned discs
49 Scotland’s island51 Watergate pres.53 Lay to rest57 Donald Jr.’s mom64 Singer Carly __
Jepsen
66 Hip follower68 Green sphere
By Alex Eaton-Salners©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/17/1711/17/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 17, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Have you been 
diagnosed with 
TMD (TMJ) or 
have experienced 
facial pain for at 
least 3 months?
•In this study, you will be randomly assigned to reciev e either study 
drug or placebo to determine if your TMD pain lessens.
•The drug being used 
•The drug being used for this study is approv ed by the Food 
and Drug Administration for other health conditions.
•The study requires 
•The study requires you to come visit our clinic for 6 visits for over a period of 12-15 
weeks.  Each visit will 
last approximately 2-4 hours.
For more information please 
contact:
352-273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
ACROSS
1 El Misti’s land
5 Want as a price
8 Debit card action
13 Shock jock Don
14 Invoice stamp16 Schumer’s
“Trainwreck” 
co-star
17 Attend
18 News provider in
front of a camera
20 Takes too much,
briefly
22 Field mouse
23 Head light
24 1993-2002 Ford-
Nissan minivan
28 Status symbol
suit
29 Pull30 Lion’s home31 Squad35 Cut corners39 Subj. for many an
au pair
40 Banish42 __-wop43 Best Picture
Oscar nominee
directed by Ava
DuVernay
45 Little chirp46 Big name in
banking
47 __ de Triomphe
49 Musical works
51 Many a Poe work57 MLB playoff
event
58 Like webs59 Bailed-out
insurance co.
60 Half a
boilermaker ...and what’s aptlyhidden in 18-,24-, 40- and 51-Across
63 Avian crop66 Like Wrigley
Field’s walls
67 Fraught with
danger
68 Luke’s sister69 Works behind, as
a bar
70 List-ending
letters
71 Reef dwellers
DOWN
1 Many a JPEG file2 Expressive rock
genre3 Means of
spreading dirt?
4 Wheels with a
history
5 On the mark
6 Shrewdly
informed
7 Former name of
the Mariinsky
Ballet
8 “Shameless”
network, briefly
9 Bellicose sort
10 Pet pendant
11 Comedy duo
Key & __
12 Computer
warning
15 Sub station19 Hide21 One rising at
dawn
24 Guys
25 Clear data from
26 Actress Wilson of
“Sleepless inSeattle”
27 Without a clue
32 Clairvoyance
letters
33 Put away the
dishes?
34 Stooge with
bangs
36 Contrarian’s reply37 Econo Lodge, e.g.
38 Composure40 Oakland Raiders’
quarterbackDerek
41 Informed about
44 Color that isn’t an
Earth tone?
46 Manicure
concern
48 Twenties, say50 Vardon Trophy
org.51 Order clothes
52 Advil alternative53 Strand at a
chalet, maybe
54 Apple tablet55 Girl in “Calvin
and Hobbes”
56 Like argon and
krypton
61 Burnable media62 TiVo button64 Feel sick65 “That __ close!”
By Jason Chapnick and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/1711/16/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 16, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services
 15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsCoach Cameron Newbauer 
and the Gators women's basketball team is hoping to bounce back from their first loss tonight against Florida State. Read the preview, pg. 22 .Punting award committee snubs Gators' T ownsend
The Ray Guy Award, given to the nation's best punter, released its list of 
10 semifinalists on Thursday. Florida's redshirt senior punter, Johnny 
T ownsend, didn't make the list despite ranking second in the country in 
average punt distance (48.5 yards). Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
SOCCER: USF VS. UF
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
For the second week in a row, 
Florida will play host for the NCAA Women’s Soccer Championship.
The Gators (15-6) will face 
South Florida (13-3-2) tonight at 6 in the tournament’s second round at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. The two teams will play for a spot in Sunday’s third-round match, which will also be held at Dizney Stadium against the winner of Washington State and Tennessee.
As UF welcomes USF to cam-
pus, it also welcomes First Team All-SEC forward Deanne Rose back to its lineup. The team’s lead-ing scorer missed the Gators’ past three games while playing inter-nationally for her home country of Canada.
“She’s so excited to be back 
and we’re all excited to have her back,” UF defender Parker Roberts said. “She has so much speed and power, and she just brings some-thing that is so different from any-one else.”
While Rose will add a new dy-
namic to the attack and has shown flashes of being Florida’s next su-perstar striker, it remains to be seen if she can be a reliable source of goals.
The freshman forward hasn’t 
scored in her last five games — since an Oct. 8 win at Vanderbilt. Since that match, UF has relied on substitutes to do most of the scor-ing. Seven of the Gators’ nine goals since the Vanderbilt game have been scored by substitutes.“To get contributions from ev-
eryone in some ways makes us more dangerous because it’s not just one player you can mark,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “But the other side of that is having the reliability of people that can come in and score goals.”
Sarah Troccoli has shown reli-
ability recently, scoring four of the 
Rose returns for UF in second round of NCAA TournamentMEN'S BASKETBALL SIDEBAR
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
Mike White stressed the 
need to improve defensively 
before the season started.
“I’m not sure we could be 
quite as good defensively,” UF’s coach said in October. “If this team is as good de-
fensively as last year’s team, 
we’ll be really good.”
In the Gators’ 108-68 vic-
tory over North Florida in the 
O’Connell Center, UF showed how much its defense has improved since its opening practices.
Florida made the Ospreys’ 
offense look silly throughout most of the game.
Just 21 seconds into the 
contest, North Florida guard Ivan Gandia-Rosa hit a bail-out three-point shot that 
opened the scoring.
The Gators responded 
with a 17-2 run over the next 
four minutes. UNF managed just one field goal.
Getting the ball in the bas-
ket didn’t become any easier for UNF, which shot 26.9 per-cent from the field in the first 
half, making just seven of its 
26 field goal attempts.
“In the first half, we gave 
a glimpse of what we should be,” guard Jalen Hudson 
said. “I still think it’s around a seven out of 10, maybe 
even a six.”
UNF improved on that 
mark in the second half after 
facing a 45-23 halftime hole. 
By that point, it was too late.
Overall, the Ospreys shot 
38.9 percent from the field and 7-of-29 from beyond the 
arc.
While Florida frontcourt 
players such as Gorjok Gak 
— who made his first career 
start Thursday night — Kev-
arrius Hayes and Keith Stone did a solid job of locking down the paint, it was most impressive when they guard-
ed smaller, quicker players.
On one defensive se-
quence, the 6-foot-8 Stone 
leaked out to the perimeter 
on a defensive switch, forc-
ing him to cover a guard.
Another play forced Stone 
out to the top of the three point arc, where he swiped a 
steal and dunked it emphati-
cally on the other end of the court.
While Stone made strides 
offensively, scoring 14 points after totaling only three in his season debut, he said talking on defense was the most im-pressive step forward.  
“Communication was the 
key to today’s success,” Stone said. “We gotta communicate Florida flaunts 
defensive stridesin win over UNFMEN'S BASKETBALL: UF 108, UNF 68
UF offense dominant in second win
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida shooting guard KeVaughn Allen led all scorers with 18 points in UF's win over UNF on Thursday.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Gliding through the air, 
KeVaughn Allen dunked the ball 
as an explosion of cheers echoed 
through the O’Connell Center.
Allen’s slam reflected just how 
one-sided Florida’s second game of 
the season was, as the No. 8 Gators dominated North Florida, 108-68, Thursday night.
Florida pulled away early in the 
first half. Boosted by three-pointers from Jalen Hudson, Egor Koulechov and Allen, the Gators went on a 17-5 run to start the game. 
UF (2-0) kept up the intensity 
throughout the half, extending its lead to 25 at one point. The Gators scored from all across the court, nailing jump shots in the paint and splashing six three-pointers.
UF didn’t let up after halftime 
either. Florida came out with two layups and back-to-back Keith Stone dunks to stymie any chance 
of a UNF comeback. 
Allen led all players with 18 
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 23 SEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 23
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 2322   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL SWIMMING & DIVING
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Up by two with less than ﬁ  ve minutes remain-
ing against Arkansas State, the Gators pushed 
hard up the court. As the play developed, sopho-more guard Delicia Washington received a long outlet pass but stepped out of bounds. Turnover.
The Gators committed three more turnovers in 
the next minute and a half in Tuesday night’s 70-69 loss to the Red Wolves.
Coach Cameron Newbauer 
said UF has to do a better job 
passing and hauling in re-
bounds if it wants to beat No. 17 Florida State tonight at 7 at the O’Connell Center. 
Despite Washington com-
mitting a game-high nine turnovers against Arkan-sas State, Newbauer refused to throw her under the bus. He said a lack of communication played a large role in many of his team’s giveaways.
“Turnovers are a team concept,” Newbauer 
said
Former Florida coach Amanda Butler’s teams 
were haunted by giveaways. In her last season at UF, the Gators committed 18.8 turnovers per game. That’s about one turnover every two min-utes, a big reason why Butler was ﬁ  red after the end of last season.
Newbauer’s squad hasn’t fared any better in its ﬁ  rst two games. The Gators are averaging 19 turnovers per game after committing 23 Tuesday night.
“I think we were just nonchalant with our 
passes,” redshirt junior Funda Nakkasoglu said. “We seemed afraid.”
The Gators also struggled to rebound against 
the Red Wolves. Arkansas State grabbed 20 offen-sive boards which resulted in 18 second-chance points.
“They outfought us,” Newbauer said. “Now 
we gotta learn and grow from it and get better. And if we don’t, then shame on us.” 
FSU comes into Gainesville after two blowout 
wins to start its season. The Seminoles cruised through a 109-51 victory against North Florida 
and a 75-51 win at Jacksonville State. They won 
both games after forcing 32 combined turnovers and snatching 35 offensive rebounds. 
Aside from turnovers and defensive rebound-
ing, Newbauer stressed the importance of starting out strong. Florida was down 8-0 to Georgia State in its season debut and trailed Arkansas State by as many as six in the ﬁ  rst quarter. 
“I don’t know why we’re not more enthused 
and excited,” Newbauer said. “But I do know this: Nobody cares about us. Everybody that comes in here doesn’t care about us. Florida State does not care about us.”
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Caeleb Dressel, Khader Baqlah and 
Jan Switkowski were three of 13 Olympi-
ans who competed on the ﬁ  rst day of the 
Purdue Invitational in West Lafayette, Indiana. And with their performances over the course of Thursday, they made 
sure to remind everyone of that fact.
The UF men’s swimming team was 
victorious in one relay event and two in-dividual events at the Morgan J. Burke 
Aquatic Center, with the Olympians serv-ing as major contributors. Dressel and Switkowski were both part of the win-ning 200 free relay team, while all three 
swimmers were on the second-place 400 
medley relay team. Dressel also emerged victorious in the 200 individual medley, and Baqlah placed ﬁ  rst in the 500 free for 
the third Gator victory of the day.
Meanwhile, UF’s women’s team 
failed to win a single event. It did reach 
the podium twice with a second-place ﬁ  nish in the 400 medley relay and a 
third-place ﬁ  nish in the 200 free relay, 
but didn’t place in the top three at any individual events. Sophomore Sherridon Dressel and 
freshman Taylor Ault came the closest with fourth-place ﬁ  nishes in the 50 free 
and 500 free, respectively.
No. 9 Indiana dominated the wom-
en’s ﬁ  eld, winning both team events and 
two individual events.
The UF diving squad suffered a huge 
blow on the men’s side, failing to qualify for the 1-meter ﬁ  nals with redshirt se-nior Dalton Goss and sophomore Alex Farrow placing 15th and 16th in the 
preliminaries, respec-
tively. The women’s side was far more suc-cessful, with sopho-more Brooke Madden 
placing second in the 
3-meter ﬁ  nals. Fresh-man Emma Whitner, who notched her ﬁ  rst 
collegiate victory earlier in the month against Florida Gulf Coast, placed right behind her at third.
The invitational continues today at 
10 a.m. 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org Turnovers, rebounds a focal point 
heading into matchup with FSUMen’s team thrives on ﬁ  rst 
day of Purdue Invitational
Gainesville 
Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for a  
Spiritual Community?
We are a community 
dedicated to peace, integrity, 
equality, social justice,  
and care of the earth.
Join with friends  
in the mystic tradition of 
waiting upon the Divine.
11 a.m. Sundays
Followed by food and fellowship
www.gainesvillequakers.orgQuaker
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 p.m., 
Sun. 9 a.m., 11:30, 
1:30 (español), 5:30, 7:30
M-F 12 & 5:30 p.m.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.orgCatholic
Trinity United Methodist 
Church
Wed: Contemporary service 
@6:35p
in Trinity Chapel, followed by
Coffee Talk for young adults  
@ Hunters Crossing  
Starbucks 8-9p
Sunday services: 8:15,  
9:40, 11a
352-376-6615 | TrinityGNV .orgMethodist
Faith Presbyterian 
Church (PCA)
More Fun Than:
THE OFFICE: Season 6, Ep1
Second 0:48
Sundays at 10 a.m.
faithgainesville.orgPresbyterian
The Seraphim Center
A Spiritual Center Serving the 
Light in all traditions
Sunday Service 11am
Spiritual Classes and 
Discussions through the week
1409 NW 6th St #110
3527928075Metaphysical
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner.
7:30 p.m. Spring/Fall,
8:30 p.m. Summer
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the 
stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
UF HILLEL 
Join the UF Hillel family
for Shabbat Friday nights 
for student-lead services  
at 6:30pm
followed by a free meal 
at 7:30pm
All are welcome!
Students eat for free.Jewish
Chapel of the 
Incarnation
The EpiscoGators  
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship:  
5:30 p.m.
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library WestEpiscopal
University City  
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m.
Practical application from 
God’s word, plus service 
projects, large group events, 
free meals and much more...
(directions and events 
calendar at www.
gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Non-Denominational
Contact Alligator Advertising    352.376.4482Washington
Madden
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017   ALLIGATOR   23
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
 310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
points on 6-of-10 shooting, while 
Stone totaled 14 points. Koulechov ﬁ  nished with 13, and Jalen Hudson, 
Gorjok Gak and Deaundrae Ballard 
added 12 each.
Hudson said it's important that the 
offense is balanced, and he thinks the 
Gators could sustain that.
“We got a lot of great players,” 
Hudson said. “We got a lot of guys 
that can do a lot of things offensively.”
What made the Gators’ offense 
so efﬁ  cient was their unselﬁ  sh play, passing the ball until they found an open shot for 23 total assists.
UF coach Mike White said he’s not 
surprised by his team's solid play well early in the season because they are a little bit older and have a high level of character.
“They’re saying the right things, 
and so far they’re acting the right way about trying to do things relative to winning,” White said. “I like the way the ball’s moving.”
UF’s defense was a difference mak-
er as well.
It applied pressure early on, forcing UNF (0-4) into tough, contested shots 
that led to airballs.
Chiozza and Gak led the way 
with three steals each, overwhelm-
ing UNF’s offense into 17 turnovers. 
The Gators stole the ball 11 times and 
blocked three Osprey shots. 
They also dominated on the glass, 
outrebounding UNF, 48-29, led by Koulechov’s nine boards.
Despite a good defensive game, 
Hudson said the team needs to con-tinue improving.
“In the second half, (UNF) let a lot 
(of three-pointers) go, so obviously, we weren’t doing our jobs,” Hudson said.
Florida plays at home against 
New Hampshire on Sunday night 
at 6 before heading to Portland, 
Oregon, to compete in the Phil Knight Invitational. UF's ﬁ  rst matchup of the invitational will be against Stanford.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
and switch, because without that, they’re gonna get wide open.” 
The Gators allowed just 16 points 
in the paint. Hayes and Gak both met their defensive assignments with grit and toughness when the Ospreys at-tempted anything up close.
For a squad that has lit up the 
scoreboard like Florida has through-out its ﬁ  rst two non-conference games, playing rigorous defense can become tiring.
Still, White knows his players have 
miles to go before reaching the defen-sive prowess of last year's team, and he’s always reminding them.
“(It’s) the ﬁ  rst, second, third and 
fourth things we talk about,” White said.
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.orgnine goals over that stint. The 
junior midﬁ  elder’s impressive play has thrust her into the starting lineup for the NCAA Tournament, as she looks to score for the third consecutive game against USF.
However, South Florida has 
a reliable goal scorer of its own. 
Evelyne Viens leads the Bulls with 12 goals and nine assists this season. The USF at-tack seems to run through Vi-ens, who had a hand in each of USF’s three goals against Flori-da Gulf Coast in the ﬁ  rst round of the tournament. 
“We’re deﬁ  nitely going to 
have to be ready for them be-cause we really respect what they do,” Burleigh said. 
While the Gators certain-ly respect their competition, they’re especially keen not to lose against an in-state rival. 
“We’re the University of 
Florida, so everybody in Flori-da wants to beat us,” Roberts said. “And you don’t want to get beat on your home ﬁ  eld. So I think it adds some extra moti-vation for us.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org Gators earn second win of year 
Florida's defense on point UF hosts USF today in Round 2Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators guard Egor Koulechov scored 13 points and totaled 9 rebounds in UF's win on Thursday.
BASKETBALL,  from pg 21
SIDEBAR,  from pg 21 SOCCER,  from pg 2124   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
28   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2017
BLACK FRIDAY
SAVINGS
START
NEXT WEEK!THE OAKS
6419 W. Newberry Road
Near Gap and Macy’s
352-331-3248THE Prices 
YOU’LL LOVE!THE Brands 
YOU WANT! New
LOCATION
$10 OFF
YOUR TOTAL PURCHASE OF $59.98 OR HIGHER BEFORE TAXES
Cannot be combined with other coupons or used on prior purchases, 
refunds, or exchanges. One coupon per transaction. One coupon per customer. 
Excludes gift cards, certain Asics, Converse, Nike and Adidas styles, 
Timberland, Timberland Pro, Sperry and Koolaburra. 
Valid in-store only. Expires 11/23/2017PRESENT COUPON FOR AN ADDITIONAL
shoecarnival.comINSIDE
Gators linebacker David Reese was tired of being the hardest-working 
player on UF’s defense. So he let his teammates know. 
ONLINE
For updates from UF’s game against UAB on Saturday, follow us on 
Twitter @alligatorSports and visit us online at alligator.org/sports.
SPEAKING 
UPBy Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Distracted is an understatement.  
The week after Florida ﬁ  red Jim McEl-
wain, the players couldn’t focus. They found 
out on Twitter. They were upset. They felt 
insulted. Especially the defense. On a unit that was already missing three of its starting seniors to long-term injuries, there was no 
one for players to look up to.
Someone had to step up. David Reese 
knew it. His dad, a former coach, knew it. But as a 19-year-old sophomore, David was 
hesitant to step on the toes of his senior teammates and take control.
The next Saturday, a 45-16 loss to Mis-
souri splashed cold water on the face of a 
linebacker who was tired of seeing his team 
in disarray.
No more time for uncertainty. No more 
time to wait. David did something he didn’t 
have to do, but something he knew he should. After the game, David gave reporters 
something to write about.
“I just wanna say one thing,” he said. “I 
hate the way we represented our coaches like 
that today with this game.”
He kept going.
“It’s sometimes disappointing when ev-
erybody doesn’t want to come together and just play for each other. That’s sad to see.”
He kept going.“We can’t have appearances like we just 
had today. That’s unacceptable.”
As a player, you’re not supposed to criti-
cize your teammates. You’re deﬁ  nitely not supposed to question their effort after a loss. And you’re absolutely not supposed to do it in public in front of reporters.
But David wasn’t punished and his team-
mates weren’t angry. Everyone knew he was right. When a team without an SEC win scores 45 points on you, it’s not about talent or skill. The defense gave up in that game. 
But David wasn’t ready to give up on them.If you think it’s unusual for a sophomore 
to be the outspoken leader of an SEC defense, 
you’re right. But if you didn’t see it coming, then you don’t know David Reese.
It killed him to see his teammates stop 
trying. Especially for a guy who gave up an opportunity to be a hometown hero to come to UF. David has always looked at the big-ger picture, whether it means turning down 
Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh, or ﬂ  ying 
around full speed in a game that’s out of reach to impress his next coach. 
So if you’re bored when Florida faces UAB 
on Saturday at noon, watch No. 33. Because no matter what the score is, he’s playing each snap like a national championship is on the line.
Everything is calculated
David’s father, David Sr., had a master 
plan. A former Division I lineman, David Sr. knew how to play the recruiting game. As a 
high school coach, he sent 36 players to D-I programs in a six-year span. Spend a couple 
months with him and top-tier teams will beg to bring you onboard.
Living 40 minutes outside of Detroit, 
David Sr. put his son in the Police Athletic League, a youth football league sponsored by law enforcement in an effort to keep kids off the streets. 
As a middle schooler, David was lining up 
against players he’d later see in the SEC. 
When it came time for high school, Da-
vid Sr. could’ve sent his son to Cass Techni-cal — a Detroit powerhouse that churns out 
University of Michigan football players year 
after year. Makes sense, right? His wife and David’s mother, Ranesa, even worked there. 
No way. How’s David gonna stand out on 
a ﬁ  eld full of four- and ﬁ  ve-star talent?
So David Sr. stuck his son in Farmington 
High, 40 minutes outside the city, where he was an assistant principal. 
“That’s why I strategically put my son 
at (Farmington),” David Sr. said. “(I knew)  After long journey to UF, linebacker not giving up on Gatorswhen he came out to the suburbs, he was gonna imme-diately dominate.”
David quickly became a captain, barking orders by the 
time he was a sophomore. 
But at 6-foot-1, David didn’t have the D-I size recruit-
ers look for in a linebacker. So he needed to garner at-tention another way. University football camps were the 
next-best option. That’s where ambitious high schoolers 
pay to run drills on college ﬁ  elds for a few days. The play-ers attend, hoping to catch the eye of a college coach. So did David Sr. send his son to the University of Michigan football camp, where the area’s top talent was sure to 
congregate?
“I never took my kids to the University of Michigan 
for football camp because I knew they wouldn’t be a big 
ﬁ  sh,” David Sr. said. “We would go and dominate Univer-
sity of Minnesota, dominate University of Indiana.”
It was impossible for David not to stand out at smaller 
camps. Even though two of the top-three recruiting sites 
pegged him as only a three-star prospect, calls started rolling in.
The plan keeps working
David zeroed in on Louisville. Not many colleges turn 
out more ﬁ  rst and second round NFL draft picks on de-fense than the Cardinals.
“We really did our research as a family,” David Sr. 
said.
So in March of 2015, David verbally committed. But 
there was still another school snifﬁ  ng around, trying to 
drag him away from the Cardinals. 
It wasn’t Florida. It was Michigan and coaching icon 
Jim Harbaugh. 
Louisville pushed David to make his commitment of-
ﬁ  cial. But it felt rushed, so David stepped back. Always looking at the bigger picture, he gave Harbaugh a chance 
to convince him. 
Ten days later, he committed to Michigan. But college 
was still far off. David hadn’t played his senior season 
yet. And if he decommitted once, there was always a 
chance he might do it again.
Most recruits might be awe-struck when a coach who 
has taken a team to the Super Bowl tells you how great you are. But David didn’t get caught up in Harbaugh’s 
praise and pageantry. If he was going to suit up in maize 
and blue, he wanted three things ﬁ  rst. 
1) He wanted to play linebacker, not fullback.  2) He wanted to enroll in spring instead of summer, so 
he would have a head start at practice and a better shot of starting as a freshman. 
3) He wanted admission into the school of business, 
so he had something to fall back on whenever his football career came to an end. 
Of course, David heard a rumor that Harbaugh wanted 
him at fullback. So he called Harbaugh to ask him di-rectly. Harbaugh said something like this:
David, No. 1, you are a linebacker. But we do feel like 
you can help us in a multitude of ways.
Nice try. David knew coach speak when he heard it. 
So he was faced with another decision: Take the chance, knowing that at any moment he could be moved to a new position, or keep his destiny in his own hands. 
David’s senior season was a statement. By the time 
it was over, he stood as Farmington’s all-time leader in tackles. 
Harbaugh called him back and conceded that David 
could play as a full-time linebacker. 
But … “He hit us with a but,” David Sr. said. “Feeling good, 
he hit us with a but.”
I know you want to start early in January, but I need 
more offensive players.
It was one of the only things Harbaugh could’ve said 
to turn David off. 
“If he would’ve gotten Michigan to give him a midyear 
(enrollment), he would’ve gone, even with the potential of being switched to fullback,” David Sr. said. “He knew if he got there in January, that nobody would’ve beat him out.”
Harbaugh only had space for one defensive player to come in midyear, and he chose a different linebacker named Devin Bush. 
David wouldn’t compromise. He knew what he want-
ed. So as the deadline for recruiting began to approach, he put himself back on the market. 
He sent game tapes to Texas. Texas offered him. Da-
vid posted the Texas offer on Twitter. In the following days, he was ﬂ  ooded with a ﬁ  nal wave of offers: Ne-
braska, TCU and Florida all wanted him. 
Right before the deadline, high school stars in Michi-
gan were invited to an annual banquet full of coaches 
and top recruits. David heard no closing argument from 
the Wolverines because Harbaugh didn’t show.
As David’s family pulled into their driveway after the 
banquet, two men stood by their front door at 9 p.m. 
Their names were Randy Shannon and Jim McElwain. 
David was already close with Shannon, a defen-
sive coordinator who had been in contact with Da-vid throughout the recruiting process. But the family wasn’t expecting to see Florida’s head coach waiting outside their door on a December night in suburban 
Michigan. 
They all sat down inside and McElwain slipped a let-
ter out of his jacket and slid it across the table.
Admittance to the Warrington College of Business.
Florida fulﬁ  lled all three requests. Its coaches guar-
anteed he’d play linebacker. They told him he could come in January. They let him into the business school. He stood up for what he wanted and got it. He committed to Florida that week. 
Playing for pride
Almost two years later, the Gators are 
on the verge of their worst season in de-cades. They won’t go to a bowl game. 
They won’t have a winning record. 
They won’t earn a third straight SEC East title. 
“We’ve pretty much been fac-
ing adversity throughout the whole season,” David said. “Combined with youth, suspensions, all the things that kind of scar a team.” 
But David isn’t going to let a train-
wreck of a season derail his goals. He’s not going to sit silently while the people who recruited him are embarrassed with loss after loss. 
In a four-game stretch where every assistant is au-
ditioning for a new job, David knew his team’s perfor-mance could cost his coaches their livelihood.
That’s why David called out his teammates after a loss 
to Missouri. 
“At ﬁ  rst I read the headlines and I’m like, ‘Man what 
did my son say?’” David Sr. said. “It was really his com-passion for coach Shannon.
“He was disappointed because he knows that their 
jobs are in the balance, their families.”
Saturday, David and his teammates have a chance to 
prevent their season from slipping into a catastrophe. A threatening UAB team is salivating over its chance to come into The Swamp and step on the Gators’ throats. 
“He knows that this can be a crazy pendulum swing to 
lose the fans,” David Sr. said. 
If David were selﬁ  sh, he’d be satisﬁ  ed. He’s at one 
of the nation’s top public business schools. He’s starting as a sophomore on an SEC defense. He has more tackles 
than anyone on Michigan’s team, despite Florida having 
played one less game — a fact his dad was quick to point out. 
David’s future won’t drastically change if UAB wins, 
40-0. 
But when you’re the leader of a team, you care about 
sending your seniors out strong, you care about the fu-ture of the program, you care about your coaches and you care about your teammates. 
If he didn’t, he wouldn’t say a thing.
 @MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org Reese: ‘I hate the way we represented our coaches’
Editor: Matt Brannon  Photos for Cover Illustration: Max Chesnes
Alligator, Friday, November 17, 2017
come in midyear, and he chose a different linebacker 
David wouldn’t compromise. He knew what he want-
ed. So as the deadline for recruiting began to approach, 
he put himself back on the market. 
He sent game tapes to Texas. Texas offered him. Da-
vid posted the Texas offer on Twitter. In the following 
days, he was ﬂ  ooded with a ﬁ  nal wave of offers: Ne-
braska, TCU and Florida all wanted him. 
Right before the deadline, high school stars in Michi-
gan were invited to an annual banquet full of coaches 
and top recruits. David heard no closing argument from 
the Wolverines because Harbaugh didn’t show.
As David’s family pulled into their driveway after the 
banquet, two men stood by their front door at 9 p.m. 
Their names were Randy Shannon and Jim McElwain. 
David was already close with Shannon, a defen-
sive coordinator who had been in contact with Da-
vid throughout the recruiting process. But the family 
wasn’t expecting to see Florida’s head coach waiting 
outside their door on a December night in suburban 
They all sat down inside and McElwain slipped a let-
ter out of his jacket and slid it across the table.
Admittance to the Warrington College of Business.
Florida fulﬁ  lled all three requests. Its coaches guar-
anteed he’d play linebacker. They told him he could 
come in January. They let him into the business 
school. He stood up for what he wanted and got it. 
He committed to Florida that week. 
Playing for pride
Almost two years later, the Gators are 
on the verge of their worst season in de-
cades. They won’t go to a bowl game. 
They won’t have a winning record. 
They won’t earn a third straight SEC 
“We’ve pretty much been fac-
ing adversity throughout the whole 
season,” David said. “Combined 
with youth, suspensions, all the 
things that kind of scar a team.” 
But David isn’t going to let a train-
wreck of a season derail his goals. He’s 
not going to sit silently while the people who recruited 
him are embarrassed with loss after loss. 
In a four-game stretch where every assistant is au-
ditioning for a new job, David knew his team’s perfor-
mance could cost his coaches their livelihood.
That’s why David called out his teammates after a loss 
“At ﬁ  rst I read the headlines and I’m like, ‘Man what 
did my son say?’” David Sr. said. “It was really his com-
passion for coach Shannon.
“He was disappointed because he knows that their 
jobs are in the balance, their families.”
Saturday, David and his teammates have a chance to 
prevent their season from slipping into a catastrophe. 
A threatening UAB team is salivating over its chance to 
come into The Swamp and step on the Gators’ throats. 
“He knows that this can be a crazy pendulum swing to 
lose the fans,” David Sr. said. 
If David were selﬁ  sh, he’d be satisﬁ  ed. He’s at one 
of the nation’s top public business schools. He’s starting 
as a sophomore on an SEC defense. He has more tackles 
than anyone on Michigan’s team, despite Florida having 
played one less game — a fact his dad was quick to point 
David’s future won’t drastically change if UAB wins, 
But when you’re the leader of a team, you care about 
sending your seniors out strong, you care about the fu-
ture of the program, you care about your coaches and you 
care about your teammates. 
If he didn’t, he wouldn’t say a thing.
 @MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org 
Reese: ‘I hate the way we represented our coaches’
 “I just wanna say one thing. We loved every single one of our 
coaches that’s been through here. It’s unfortunate what’s 
happened to them. I hate the way we represented our 
coaches like that today with this game. Those guys 
really care for us .... It’s sometimes disappointing 
when everybody doesn’t want to come together 
and just play for each other. That’s sad to 
see. We’ve still got a lot to play for. Me 
personally and our defense, we want 
to play for those guys. We can’t have 
appearances like we just had today. 
That’s unacceptable.”                                    - David Reese