We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A special night for Lindsey Rogers
At tonight’s volleyball match beneﬁ  ting those 
with cancer, Rogers will be reminded of her 
family’s ﬁ  ght with the illness, pg. 15. No more quarters for city parking
City parking spots now payable through app, pg. 9.
CWC checks in with students
The center held a mid-semester “pit stop,” pg. 3.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 28
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF IS LOOKING INTO AUDIO THAT 
DISCUSSED ALCOHOL 
USE AND RACIAL COMMENTS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is investigating the Kappa Alpha Theta So-
rority for hazing after leaked audio of a member re-
counting an incident involving racist insinuations, heavy alcohol use and sexual behavior. 
After the UF branch of The Tab, an online tab-
loid, published an article with the audio ﬁ  le Tues-day night, UF launched an inquiry Wednesday morning.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said ofﬁ  cers from 
the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce and Student Affairs are talking to sorority members in a pre-student con-duct process. 
“If they ﬁ  nd hazing took place, they would 
charge them, and students would go through a stu-
dent conduct process,” Sikes said.
Sikes said she’s unsure what other conversa-
tions the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce and Student Af-
fairs are having with the sorority members. “They’re trying to understand the circumstanc-
es of this whole thing and whether it’s real or not,” she said.
The audio ﬁ  le claimed Rya Carroll, the sorority 
chapter chief education ofﬁ  cer, was the one speak-ing. After being reached for comment, Carroll re-directed Alligator reporters to her lawyer, Phillip Campbell. He could not be immediately reached for comment. 
The president of UF Panhellenic Council, Dev-
on Leasure, could not be immediately reached for comment. The Kappa Alpha Theta president could also not be reached for comment.
Liz Rinck, the director of communications for 
the national Kappa Alpha Theta Fraternity, wrote in an email that national and local Kappa Alpha Theta ofﬁ  cers are investigating the story. Rinck said she could not provide information about an ongoing investigation.
She said Kappa Alpha Theta is cooperating with 
administrators for the investigation.
“Racism, bigotry, and hazing are antithetical to 
Kappa Alpha Theta’s core values,” Rinck said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUF investigating Kappa Alpha 
Theta Sorority for hazingSHE STARTED WORKING 
FOR OLIVE GARDEN 
IN 1984.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
While pouring another drink, Erin 
Gosselin, 56, tells her regulars she’s 
still ﬁ  guring out what she wants to be when she grows up.
In high school, she thought of be-
ing an engineer or an architect. 
She attended Stevens School of 
the Bible in her native state Massa-chusetts in the early 1980s. 
For about two years she worked 
at an Orlando law ﬁ  rm.
Now, looking back on her 32 
years with Olive Garden Italian Restaurant and 20 years as a bar-
tender at the restaurant’s Gainesville 
branch, located at 2711 Clark Butler Blvd., she said she couldn’t be hap-pier. 
Gosselin could have been a school 
teacher like her older sister, Holly, 64, or a principal like her younger brother, Barry, 50. For a while, she thought her path would always end 
up at law school. 
But working restaurants is unlike 
anything else, she said. 
“You go home, and you’re tired, but you feel like you’ve done some-
thing,” she said. “You’ve fed all these people, you’ve entertained them, you get to know them. This is my second family. Being a lawyer, I couldn’t have done that.” 
She said her job comes down to 
one thing. 
It has little to do with the late-
night sports marathons on the res-taurant’s wall-mounted ﬂ  at-screen TVs, the hundreds upon hundreds of ﬂ  avored martinis she’s made or 
the elevator Italian jazz music Olive 
Garden plays on a loop every night.
All those things are great, she 
said. But it’s about family. 
When she walks out of her Wil-
liston home every Monday through Thursday for her 4 to 11 p.m. shift, she said she’s trading one home for another. 
She says goodbye to her two 
Great Danes, 1-year-old Jill and 7-year-old Nick, and her husband, Bob, 70. 
Then, it’s hello to her Olive Gar-
den family, to her manager and friend of 13 years, Amber Popp; the general manager, Justin Flanders; and her fellow servers and regular 
customers. ‘It’s an adventure’: Gainesville bartender of 20 years still at it
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Erin Gosselin tops off a drink with Coca-Cola before handing it to a server Thursday. Gosselin is a 
bartender at the Olive Garden Italian Restaurant on Clark Butler Boulevard.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Tucker Shea sat in the new Cade 
Museum for Creativity and Inven-
tion building with a construction hat 
perched on his head.
Surrounded by a crowd of people, 
the 12-year-old displayed his inven-
tion — a hat with a light bulb connect-
ed to the top that would illuminate 
with the press of a button. Tucker 3-D printed parts of the invention him-self. Whenever he got an idea, his 
hat would glow and the crowd would 
erupt in a chorus of oohs and aahs. 
The pre-teen was one of 200 guests 
who gathered Thursday at the Cade 
Museum, located at 904 S. Main St., 
to celebrate the third annual Inventiv-ity Bash and see the newly unveiled building, said Leslie Ladendorf, the 
museum operations director. “We’re very excited and thrilled to 
have this building here in Depot Park 
to be a partner with the community,” she said.
With the light bulb hat perched on 
Tucker’s head, his father, John Shea, said his son’s interest in 3-D printing, innovation and creativity were all nurtured by the Cade Museum.
“It deﬁ  nitely has given him a lot 
of opportunities to express himself, to learn new tools and to be creative in designing things,” he said.
Ladendorf said this year’s Inven-
tivity Bash Tickets included a scav-enger hunt, hands-on demonstrations and science exhibits. Tickets for the event, an annual fundraiser for the Cade Museum, began at $200. For the 
past eight years, the museum has also 
presented the Cade Prize to a Florida-based startup company, Ladendorf New Cade Museum unveiled 
at third invention bashSEE BARTENDER,  PAGE 8
SEE CADE,  PAGE 8
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
HIGH  79° LOW  58°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 FAFSA is now available. UF’s 
on-time deadline to receive 
the results of your 2018-2019 
FAFSA from the federal proces-
sor is Dec. 15. Apply before the 
deadline to ensure the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is awarded 
on a first-come, first-served ba-sis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most 
and best aid. For more infor-
mation or assistance with com-pleting your FAFSA, visitfafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA fi-nancial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
GatorNights: Terror at the Reitz
Prepare for a spooky night Friday. Bring a friend and enter a haunted house that takes up 
nearly half of the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom. Get crafty and celebrate fall as you make a pa-per pumpkin or create a creepy 
can cooler to bring home some 
Halloween pizazz. Catch a Halloween-themed improvisa-tion performance by Theater Strike Force in the Arredondo 
Cafe, and grab some Halloween 
treats while you’re here. Test your sleuthing skills with a ghost tour scavenger hunt from 
9 to 11 p.m., and make an ap-
pointment with a psychic or tarot card reader. Bring your 
friends to our “Scary-oke” 
event in Orange & Brew from 9 to 10:30 p.m., followed by a costume contest with prizes for best solo and best group 
costumes. If you’ve seen the 
movie “Annabelle: Creation,” use movie clues to solve the “Annabelle: Creation”-themed 
escape room. If you haven’t seen 
it, you’ll have a chance to catch “Annabelle: Creation,” show-ing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
Midnight munchies will be piz-
za in the Food Court starting at midnight. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF 
students with their Gator 1 Card 
at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.  
Starry Night 
Observe the night sky and ex-plore the world beyond at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History on Friday from 6 to 10 
p.m. Gaze at the stars through high-performance telescopes, and see a portable planetarium 
show. Join the museum for this 
free night of astronomical pro-portions. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/starrynight or call 352-273-2062.
Swinging Halloween Dance
The Florida Swing Dancing Club is hosting a Halloween 
Dance on Friday at 7:30 p.m. 
Refreshments will be served, and a photo booth will be available for spooky photos. Come dressed in your scariest 
Halloween costume, and see if 
you can win the costume con-test. No experience is needed, and no partner is required, but 
friends are welcome to join. The 
event only costs $5. The dance will be held at the Thelma A. Boltin Center, located at 516 NE Second Ave. For more in-
formation, visit facebook.com/
FloridaSwingDancingClub. 
Gallery Talk: Exploring the Tree 
of LifeJoin professors Doug and Pam Soltis, who are both faculty in the Florida Museum of Natural History, as they discuss artists’ 
depictions of Floridian species 
and the global importance of biodiversity in the interactive exhibition “The Tree of Life.” 
This talk will be held at the 
Harn Museum of Art on Sunday at 3 p.m. Admission is free. For more information, visit harn.ufl.edu/treeoflife. 
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsDo you make cool stuff? 
Gainesville’s largest indepen-
dent craft show is looking for artists and crafters who make unique, giftable goods for the upcoming Dec. 3 holiday shop-
ping event at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, located at 1220 NE Veitch St. Apply online by Wednesday at glamcrafts-
how.com/apply.Drink with the Extinct
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting “Drink with the Extinct” to share science 
with the community. Sip brews 
in the shadow of the mammoth, sample local fare beside the mastodon, and enjoy live mu-sic Nov. 3 from 7 to 9 p.m. at 
the Florida Museum. Proceeds 
benefit the museum’s Pop-Up Program. Participants must be 21 or older. Tickets are $30 or 
$25 for museum members. For 
more information, visit florida-museum.ufl.edu/event/drink-with-the-extinct or call 352-273-2047.
Free tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the UF 
Argentine Tango Club for free 
lessons every Sunday. Whether 
you’re a beginner or a seasoned 
dancer, everyone is welcome. 
No experience, partner or spe-
cial shoes are required. Just 
bring a thick pair of socks. Beginner-level lessons are held 
every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., fol-
lowed by advanced-level les-
sons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are 
held in the Reitz Union, Dance 
Studio A. Find the UF Argentine 
Tango Club on Facebook for 
more details.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction In the article titled "'Goosebumps' author humors audience at Accent event," the 
"Goosebumps" author's name 
is R. L. Stine. The Alligator re-ported otherwise.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 28
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Have you been 
diagnosed with 
TMD (TMJ) or 
have experienced 
facial pain for at 
least 3 months?
•In this study, you will 
be randomly assigned to reciev e either study 
drug or placebo to determine if your TMD pain lessens.
•The drug being used 
•The drug being used 
for this study is approv ed by the Food 
and Drug Administration for other health conditions.
•The study requires 
•The study requires 
you to come visit our clinic for 6 visits for over a period of 12-15 
weeks.  Each visit will 
last approximately 2-4 hours.
For more information please 
contact:
352-273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
5733 SW 75 ST, Gainesville, FL 32607   •   www.sdcchocolates.com   •   (352)378-5005
Mon 11-4:30  •  Tue-Fri 11-7  •  Sat 11-3
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Contributing Writer
Former Florida Gators quarterback Danny 
Wuerffel hopes to make par while fundraising 
$107,000 Friday.
Wuerffel, who led the Gators to win their 
ﬁ  rst national football championship in 1996 
and went on to win the Heisman Trophy the 
same year, will play in the seventh annual De-sire Cup tournament, a golf game hosted dur-ing the weekend of the Florida-Georgia football game to raise money for Desire Street Minis-tries.
Desire Street Ministries, which was founded 
in the 9th Ward of New Orleans, helps people in under-resourced neighborhoods.
“Some of the things I’m most passionate 
about are Florida, the Gators and the work we do at Desire Street Ministries,” Wuerffel said. “So you gather all that up, you invite some Bulldogs to the party, and you have the Desire Cup.”
The tournament will take place the day be-
fore the Florida-Georgia football game and pit 
Florida fans against University of Georgia fans 
at the Tournament Players Club at Sawgrass, in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, said Amy Sum-mers, the owner of Pitch Publicity.
“Danny has found a way to bring together 
these two sides in a positive way,” Summers said. “Each of these schools can come together and do good in the world.”Wuerffel started working with the organi-
zation when he played for the New Orleans Saints in 1997. Now, he serves as the executive 
director and said he’s seen the ups and downs 
in the 9th Ward.
“I was inspired by great work that was be-
ing done by some neat folks, but also troubled by the under-resourced neighborhood and the different struggles that were a lot worse than I was probably exposed to at the time,” Wuerffel said.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
To address concerns from exams, 
natural disasters and controversial speakers, the UF Counseling & Well-ness Center held a Mid-Semester Wellness Pit Stop to engage students 
in health.
From Oct. 16 through Wednes-
day, the CWC went to various on-
campus locations to speak with stu-dents about their concerns, allowing the students to use the center’s re-sources without booking an appoint-
ment. The center’s wait list is about 
two weeks, according to Alligator archives.
“It was simply things unfolding 
on top of one another,” said Gizem Toska, the assistant director of out-reach and consultation.
Toska said counseling appoint-
ments at the main ofﬁ  ce were not 
affected.About four students received 
help from individual consultations 
Oct. 19. Three students came to talk 
about their stressful week, and one 
student was impacted by the empti-ness of campus, rather than Richard Spencer’s visit, Toska said.
She gave students exercises to 
practice de-stressing, like journal-ing. She said she hopes to continue the pit stops, but restructure them so more students attend.
Toska said last week was one of her best at the CWC. She was moved by the number of students who ex-pressed their care for mental health.
Dozens of students spoke up at 
the Student Senate meeting after UF’s local fee committee denied the center’s request for a student fee in-crease.
“I so appreciate the student voices 
who seem to be urging Student Gov-ernment to reconsider our funding,” Toska said. “There’s another angle 
to that story where Student Govern-ment (and) the provost is on our side 
trying to make this work. I trust the Student Government, that they are 
working to make this happen.”
Amanda Wolfrom said she sees a 
psychiatrist at the center for her de-
pression and anxiety.
Wolfrom, a UF political science 
junior, said a lack of funding could affect her.
“It would inhibit me from receiv-
ing the care I need and thus affect 
my education,” the 19-year-old said.Heisman winner organizes Florida-Georgia golf tournament
Counseling & Wellness Center hosts pit-stop events4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
By Anna Cappelli
Alligator Contributing Writer
Charles Hinchcliff, of Mayo, Florida, has to 
visit the hospital 10 times a week.
But Hinchcliff lives 83 miles away from UF 
Health Shands Hospital.
The 56-year-old, who has stage 4A head 
and neck cancer, goes through radiation twice 
a day, Monday through Friday.
That’s why Sara Stevens wore a pink, spar-
kly bra over her shirt on campus Thursday.
The 21-year-old and was raising money 
for UF’s Relay for Life team, which donates money to the American Cancer Society. The money funds research, supports patients and spreads awareness about all types of cancer, 
Stevens said.
Stevens, the event lead of UF’s Relay for 
Life, helped her team raise $1,040 Thursday.
The UF Relay for Life team came up 
with the idea to host a bra decorating event 
Wednesday night. After the seven participants decorated their bras, they would wear them over their clothes around campus until they had individually raised $100.
The money raised partially goes toward 
American Cancer Society Hope Lodges around the country, including the American Cancer Society Winn-Dixie Hope Lodge, which is one of three Hope Lodges in the state of Florida. A Hope Lodge offers cancer patients who live far away from hospital or treatment sites, like Hinchcliff, a place to stay.Hinchcliff found out Gainesville had a Hope 
Lodge through the American Cancer Society. It has provided a temporary home for him throughout his treatment process. The center has everything he needs except for food and toiletries, he said.
“The people here are very friendly and per-
sonable,” Hinchliff said. “They know you by name and interact with you if you need any-thing. It’s a great place to stay.”
Stevens, a UF interior design senior, ﬁ  rst 
developed her interest in Relay for Life her freshman year of high school when her grand-mother Esther, or “Bubba,” passed away from lung cancer. Stevens hoped the bra-decorating event would raise money and morale.
“Lots of people were looking at me, but ev-
eryone was smiling,” Stevens said. “The bras were very pink so I think people deﬁ  nitely knew what we were supporting.”
Mackenzie Ward, a 21-year-old interior 
design senior, is excited to raise money for all cancer research and places like the Hope Lodge, since family members of hers have passed away from cancer.
“Too many people afﬁ  liate (Relay for Life) 
with just women because of breast cancer, so by having these events we are helping educate the young students of America,” Ward said.
Hinchcliff said he’s thankful to be staying 
in the Hope Lodge, which shuttles him to his treatments and gives him a warm bed to sleep in.
“The Hope Lodge is a blessing,” he said.Students raise more than 
$1,000 with ﬂ  ashy bras
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Sloane Henry used to frequent Pulse night-
club as a teenager.
When the Pulse shooting happened last 
year, Henry, who is straight, donated blood 
but saw her LGBTQ+ friends turned away, 
despite being desperate to help.
“I saw so many of my friends being turned 
away (from donating blood) when they want-
ed to help, even when they were HIV-nega-tive,” Henry said. “This blood ban affected my community, where I grew up.”
Now, Henry, a UF law student, is work-
ing with other law students to raise awareness of the blood ban on men who have sex with 
men.
These men can’t donate blood for 12 
months after sexual intercourse, Henry said.
The Food and Drug Administration re-
duced the blood ban from a lifetime ban to 
12 months in 2015, according to a 2015 press release.
Aaron Badida, the regional chair for the 
LGBT Bar Association, said he wants the pol-
icy to be re-examined due to more advanced 
screening methods available today.
“The beneﬁ  ts of allowing more people to 
give blood outweigh the risks of lifting the ban,” Badida, a 23-year-old  UF law second-year, said.
The students tabled outside of a blood 
drive Tuesday and Wednesday.Students wore red to encourage giving 
blood, and rainbow armbands were given out for students to wear over their gauze, Henry said.
“We do not want to discourage people 
from giving blood, but we want to equip them with some knowledge while they do that,” Henry, 27, said.
Robert Cook, the director of the Southern 
HIV and Alcohol Research Consortium, said 
the testing blood banks use is “pretty close” 
to perfect.
Cook said current tests can detect the anti-
body or the HIV/AIDS virus within 24 hours of infection.
“I don’t think it would miss any people un-
less there was a lab error or someone didn’t do the test right,” Cook said. “There used to be a legitimate safety issue, and now there isn’t.”
Cook said he thinks those who are in favor 
of the ban may be making decisions based on fear.
“They may be making decisions without 
knowing how perfect the test is,” Cook said.
Brite Whitaker, the director of communi-
cation and outreach at LifeSouth Community Blood Centers, said the policy is always being looked at, especially by national blood banks.
“I can tell you that it’s not our ban,” Whita-
ker said. “We are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We adhere to their rules and regulations.”
The American Red Cross and the FDA 
couldn’t be reached for comment.Students draw attention to ban 
on queer men donating blood RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Tomato diseases could impact 
crops if not detected early
UF researchers discovered new patho-
gens that may damage Florida tomatoes.
Gary Vallad, an associate professor 
of plant pathology at the UF Gulf Coast 
Research and Education Center, said detecting the pathogens early can help protect the tomatoes, but misidentifying 
a pathogen can cause problems control-
ling the disease. 
A team of researchers led by Val-
lad found two pathogens. One of them, called Pseudomonas cichorii, could 
cause parts of the leaf and other crops 
to develop bacteria which will eat away at the plant. 
The second identified pathogen, 
Pseudomonas floridensis, is new and was specific to the tomato plant, Vallad said. Researchers first saw evidence of the pathogens in Hillsborough and Manatee counties in 2011 and 2012 while investi-
gating a series of outbreaks.
Thanks to early detection of the pathogens, there is no immediate threat 
to the tomato industry,  Vallad said. He said the biggest threat to the Florida to-mato industry is not from the biological 
threat but rather the economical compe-
tition from Mexico. 
Vallad said the study will help make 
farmers aware of the different pathogens 
that can impact their crops.  
“The supply of tomatoes affects all 
who enjoy eating them,” he said. “The 
ultimate goal of my program is to provide the tomato industry with information 
about the diseases impacting crop pro-
duction and how to best manage them.”
Mosquitos thrive in deforested 
areas
More than half of mosquito species in 
deforested areas transmit human patho-
gens, UF researchers found.
Nathan Burkett-Cadena, an assistant 
professor in the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Florida Medical Entomology Laboratory, said the research shows when people cut down forests for other uses, they inadvertently create a 
habitat for mosquitoes that carry dis-
eases. 
Burkett-Cadena said mosquito-borne 
diseases account for more than 17 per-
cent of infectious diseases in people, ac-
cording to data he found from the World Health Organization.
For the study, researchers aggregated 
and analyzed data from published stud-
ies that looked at how many pathogen-
carrying mosquito species were in forest-ed and deforested lands around the U.S. 
Burkett-Cadena said dense forests 
are a poor habitat for disease-carrying mosquitoes, while cleared lands let them thrive.
The researchers found more than half 
of mosquitoes species that carry patho-
gens were present in deforested habitats, 
Burkett-Cadena said. When one of these mosquitos bites a human, they transmit a virus.Burkett-Cadena said people should 
understand how the policies and practic-es they engage in affect the environment and how closely human health is linked 
to the environment.
“Humans are causing profound 
changes on the planet,” he said. “Under-
standing how these changes impact our 
own health is critical for making future 
decisions on how to conserve and utilize forests.” 
Antibiotics will not increase 
diabetes risk in children
Common antibiotics do not increase 
the risk of Type 1 diabetes or celiac dis-
ease among children prone to developing 
those diseases, UF researchers found.
Eric Triplett, the department chair 
of microbiology and cell sciences at 
UF, said his study sought to determine 
whether antibiotic use was associated 
with diagnosis of Type 1 diabetes and celiac disease in children up to age four.
Earlier studies using mice showed a 
connection between antibiotic use and diabetes, but Triplett said he wanted 
to disprove the studies. He feared they 
would alarm parents about antibiotic use in their children without real cause. 
His recent study showed using antibi-
otics will not increase the risk of disease 
in children, he said.
The study was done by the interna-
tional Type 1 diabetes research group 
TEDDY, which stands for The Environ-
mental Determinants of Diabetes in the 
Young, of which UF is a part, Triplett said. Planning for the study began in 2008. The data on antibiotic use was collected from the medical records of children 
starting in 2004 and ending in 2014. 
Triplett said other factors associated 
with antibiotic resistance, like cancers, 
were not considered in this study. 
“I think it’s important for UF to be 
involved in studies like this so they can teach the future generations about these diseases,” he said. By Rosanne Ramraj | Alligator Contributing Writer
THEY PRESENTED 
STUDENTS WITH DIFFERENT 
ORGANIZATIONS AND 
RESOURCES.
By Heaven T aylor-Wynn
Alligator Contributing Writer
Megan Hoagland was a junior in high 
school when her best friend of four years took his own life.
Now Hoagland, a 20-year-old UF jour-
nalism sophomore, co-chairs a walk called Out of the Darkness, a fundraiser that aims to increase mental health awareness. 
“People don’t really want to talk about 
it,” she said. “But it needs to be (brought) 
into the light.”
Out of the Darkness, an auxiliary of the 
American Foundation for Suicide Preven-
tion, was one of about a dozen organiza-tions represented at UF Disability Resource 
Center’s Accessibility Expo on Thursday 
on the Plaza of the Americas.
From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., UF organiza-
tions like the Counseling & Wellness Cen-ter and Signing Gators set up booths to teach studets about disabilities and elimi-nate stigmas surrounding people with dis-abilities.
Amanda Brown, 37, the associate direc-
tor of the Disability Resource Center, said she believes students of all abilities should have equal access to success in and out of the classroom. The center facilitates differ-
ent services for students on campus, like 
alternate testing environments for students with learning disabilities. The center also works to make sure students are well ac-commodated in their classes.
“We’re working to create a more inclu-
sive and equitable campus environment,” she said. 
Macy Reeves, 22, became an ambassa-
dor after volunteering with the center for a diversity credit. She said she fell in love with the work she was doing and decided to stay.
Reeves, a telecommunication senior, 
said she advocates for inclusivity to make all students feel accommodated.
“Being different is OK,” she said. Disability Resource Center hosts event to break stigmasFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORYou’ve been sitting at home for hours, trying to think of ways 
to entertain yourself. You and your roommates thought because 
it was a bye week for UF football, you might as well use Saturday to relax and have a lazy day.
After watching four of eight main “Harry Potter” ﬁ  lms and 
eating way more pizza than your body should have been able to handle, you collectively decide to play a board game and make your brain do at least a little bit of work on your lazy day.
Realizing your board game collection consists of exactly one 
game, you collectively decide Scrabble will be the game of the evening. After several turns, you’re a little embarrassed by how badly you’re losing. That is, until you pull out the letters you’ve needed all along to put yourself back in the game.
Grinning to yourself, you place the letters on the board and 
exclaim there is no way anyone can beat you now. Your friends look at the board in awe. Spelled out in tiny wooden tiles is:
Darts & Laurels
Thursday afternoon, President Donald Trump gave us both 
our ﬁ  rst dart and our ﬁ  rst laurel of the week when he declared 
a nationwide public health emergency in order to combat the 
growing opioid crisis in America. According to the LA Times, the new order will allow some limited new steps, such as enabling patients in rural parts of the country to access medication for ad-diction treatment through telemedicine. Furthermore, it should allow federal agencies to redirect some existing grant money to focus on opioid-addicted patients. The only problem with his so-called solution is no direct orders to increase funding toward the epidemic have been made. To us, the declaration seems a little light — we hoped for more but are pleased some attention is be-ing drawn to the issue.
A little closer to home, we have had some issues of our own. 
Hazing allegations have come out against the UF chapter of Kap-pa Alpha Theta Sorority. It’s no secret Greek life has its problems, but rarely do we see solid evidence of it, and rarely are we faced with the gruesome reality of what happens behind closed doors.
Audio of a sister recounting an incident that involved racist 
insinuations, heavy alcohol use and sexual behavior was released earlier this week, causing UF to further investigate the chapter. 
While we certainly hope this incident does not speak for all UF 
Greek chapters, we are still ashamed it speaks for even one of them. Isolated incidents usually point to a larger system. The be-havior of the Kappa Alpha Theta sisters involved is deserv-ingly our last dart of the week.
On a more positive note, we’ve seen some things this week 
that have really helped to restore our hope. Despite the fact last week was a little rough for a lot of Gators, we got through it. We got through it together, and as we continue to face more difﬁ  cult weeks, we continue to get through it. Together.
As we approach the anniversary of former UF student Abi-
gail Dougherty’s death, UF students decided to pay tribute to her in a beautiful way. The Field and Fork Pantry and Campus Diplomats came together to create a day of service in honor of Dougherty, earning a well-deserved laurel. Watching our cam-pus come together in times of adversity truly makes us happy to call ourselves Florida Gators.
Looking forward to this weekend, our last laurel of the week 
is a no-brainer. It’s ﬁ  nally time again for all of us to pack our coolers, grab out jerseys and head up to the EverBank Field in 
Jacksonville to cheer on the Gators as they go head-to-head with 
the University of Georgia Bulldogs. That’s right, dear readers, it’s Florida/Georgia weekend! No matter your hectic schedule, take some time this weekend to relax and cheer on your team — you deserve it. 
You don’t always need to know your next move
This sign I have had ever since I was a child. The sign is a voice which comes to me and always forbids me to do something which I am going 
to do, but never commands me to 
do anything.”
The words above were written by Socrates just 
before his historic trial and death in 399 B.C. The 
Greek philosopher and teacher was put on trial af-ter asking the wrong types of questions to his stu-dents. His queries lead the government to charge him with moral corruption and impiety. Despite having the opportunity to ﬂ  ee Athens, Socrates decided to stay and face his accusers head on, fully aware of the fatal implications.
Plato, a student of Socrates, wrote the “Apology of 
Socrates,” containing Socrates’ trial defense and ﬁ  nal words. In it, as seen in the quote above, Socrates discusses an in-ner voice that has guided him. Often referred to as a dae-mon, this mystical voice from within is apparently what told Socrates not to run and hide from his accusers and to face his impending execution. As a result, Socrates died on his own terms: not as a coward, but instead as an intellectual, forever 
immortalizing himself and more importantly his teachings 
through his decision.
What Socrates said about his inner voice (and learning 
of what exactly a daemon is) assigned a word to and de-
scribed a phenomenon that I am trying to trust in my own life: the idea that knowing what not to do is just as important as knowing what to do.
Growing up, it is easy to view college as the time in ev-
eryone’s life when they ﬁ  gure everything out, spending four years carefully aligning their future into place with intention. 
The reality can be the complete opposite. College can rap-
idly become more chaos than order, more questions than answers, more confusion than clarity.
There are rarely deﬁ  ned answers to life’s biggest ques-
tions, but even if you are aware of this, the fog of an uncer-tain future is enough to blind you and rattle you to the core with anxiety. We see our peers and their presti-gious internships and job offers and assume we are the only ones lost and unsure of what to do or where to go. Suddenly, we feel a pressure to ﬁ  gure 
out our exact career and life itinerary and follow 
it exactly, but the only result is an unpleasant col-lege experience, riddled with fruitless worrying.
In my ﬁ  rst semester on campus, I was told the 
future was in ﬁ  nance. So, like the good business student I was, I conﬁ  dently checked the box that made me a ﬁ  nance major, despite knowing noth-
ing about it. To learn more about opportunities out there, I attended weekly meetings for the Student Finance Group and Student Investment Club. These are ﬁ  ne organizations, but 
I absolutely hated going to the meetings. Each week, they 
would bring in a guest speaker from an area in ﬁ  nance, and I would think, “Man, I would hate to be doing that.”
For a while, I viewed my time in these clubs as a colos-
sal waste of time, but upon further reﬂ  ection, it might have ended up being one of the most useful experiences I’ve had in college. The entire time, I could hear my gut telling me, “What are you even doing here?” I may not have left with a 
new company or career to strive for, but I did learn what I 
didn’t want to do, which is equally as valuable.
It is very rare when you actually know what to do with 
your life, but that is OK. You don’t always need to know 
what the next move is. Knowing what to set aside and walk away from is enough. For every road you eliminate, you are orienting yourself more properly and taking one step closer to what is best. College isn’t a time to gather all the answers, but instead a time to learn to trust your gut and develop con-ﬁ  dence in your discernment of right and wrong, good and 
bad. Outside pressures are very real, but only you know 
what you truly want; so you might as well listen.
 
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.“
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Earlier this week, 
I was studying. I was in the li-
brary, where most 
people are when 
they study, and I found a perfect little table in 
the basement of Marston 
Science Library. It was nearing hour three of my study venture, and I was making decent progress. I brought 
snacks to tide me over and ﬁ  lled my 
water bottle. I had an arsenal of col-ored pens, my notebook, my hard copy of the textbook at my disposal. 
Last but not least, I had the most 
important part of any study session — my ear buds.
I was about to start my ﬁ  nal sec-
tion of notes when a group of girls 
(I’m not saying they were wearing 
Greek letters, but I will say they weren’t not wearing Greek letters) made their way over to the other ta-
ble adjacent to mine, plopped down 
and started talking.
Now, you might say, “Petrana, 
maybe they were working on a group project and couldn’t grab a 
study room.”
If that were the case, I would’ve 
let it pass. I understand the strug-
gle. I’ve been there before.
But they weren’t. They were eat-
ing lunch and drinking Starbucks. They were gossiping. They were hanging out for no other reason than to hang out — which is great. 
I’m not so much of a reclusive her-
mit that groups of giggling girls send me into shock. It’s just when you hang out, please be conscien-
tious of where you do so.
There are plenty of places to 
hang out on campus and have a con-
versation. The Hub, for instance, the Reitz Union, the lobbies of the 
residence halls, empty classroom 
buildings and the dining facilities to name a few. If you’re going to have a loud conversation unrelated to 
studying, for the love of Albert, Tim 
Tebow, UF President Kent Fuchs and whoever else the typical stu-dent here at the great UF holds sacred, please don’t do it in the library. I don’t 
want to hear about what 
you did over the weekend. I don’t care about that hot guy you hooked up with 
or the fact that you’re “so 
done” with your classes. Social interaction is great, and meeting with friends 
is great, just don’t do it 3 feet away 
from me when I’m studying for an 
exam.
This is a problem that has 
plagued our campus for too long. 
Too many times have I been in the 
middle of study session, only to be interrupted by some loud story about what happened at the wood-ser last weekend. Too often have I 
been looking for a space to sit, only 
to ﬁ  nd a whole table being used to watch Netﬂ  ix.
When you go to the library, 
you’ve entered this unspoken so-cial contract to use that space to do schoolwork. Whether on your own or with others, you must meet this expectation. I get that group study 
sessions sometimes veer into other 
categories, I do. I’ve been there, but at least fulﬁ  ll the expectation and have books out, have the promise 
of going back to your studies — and 
actually do that once in awhile. Don’t talk for two hours about your vacation plans.
If you come into the library with 
no laptop or notebooks, and you snag a table for you and your clos-est friends to have a long discussion about tailgating, please remember 
what this space is meant to be used 
for. If I can hear you over my mu-sic, which is almost at max volume, please consider where you are. Yes, this is not the quiet ﬂ  oor, but it’s for 
group studying — not for catching 
up on gossip. I implore you, fellow students at UF, leave the libraries for studying. Socialize elsewhere.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English 
and computer science (super) senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays. Jane Doe (Jane Doe is not the ac-
tual name of the victim, but is used in place of it to ensure her 
safety) draws her third cigarette 
from the box of Marlboro ciga-
rettes on the table between us. The box looks light.
“Hope you don’t mind (if I smoke),” 
she had texted me before I arrived at Maude’s Classic Cafe for our inter-view. “Had a rough day.”
Jane has endured more than her fair share 
of rough days. During high school, a year into her ﬁ  rst serious relationship, her boyfriend raped her. She woke up to ﬁ  nd him inside of her, thrusting away at her limp body without her 
consent. Disoriented, she informed him she had 
been asleep and emphasized what he had done was rape.
“What are you going to do,” she recalls him 
saying, “Call the police?”
Their relationship spiraled downward after 
that. There was emotional and physical abuse, forced oral sex that ended abruptly in episodes of vomiting and tears. When Jane ﬁ  nally mus-
tered the courage to end things before starting 
college at UF, he threatened to kill himself and on one occasion cryptically suggested murder.
College was supposed to be a place to renew, 
but the trauma clung to her like a wet cloth. She 
self-medicated with drugs and alcohol and self-
harmed when those weren’t enough. The Coun-seling & Wellness Center helped, but understaff-ing meant infrequent visits. Above all else, her 
wounds needed time to heal.
College should have provided that time, but 
Jane would soon learn UF’s rigorous admissions 
process was a poor ﬁ  lter for the sexually abu-sive.
One night, she and some friends decided to 
hang out at a UF fraternity. It got late, and her friends left one by one, until she was alone. A brother she knew well, to whom she had opened 
up about her history of assault, offered to let her 
sleep in his room rather than pay for an Uber home. She was tired but skeptical.
“I really don’t want to have sex,” she remem-
bers messaging back.
He said that was ﬁ  ne, and  she could just 
sleep, but she was insistent, saying, “I want to be clear. I don’t want to have sex with you.” Again, he said that was OK.
As soon as she entered his room, though, he 
began kissing her. Again, she pressed her point saying, “I don’t want to have sex.” He began to undress her when she said, “I told you, I don’t want to have sex.” Regardless, he continued.
Frightened, exhausted and incredu-
lous that someone with knowledge of her trauma could so ﬂ  agrantly violate her trust, Jane relented. He raped her.
Sadly, in my ongoing investigation 
into sexual assaults and fraternity cul-ture at UF, Jane’s story is common-place, emblematic of a systemic prob-
lem fraternities, UF and society have done too 
little to address.
According to a The Tab UF investigation pub-
lished in September, 33 percent of all reported 
sexual assaults on campus occur at fraternity 
houses, excluding unreported assaults (of which 
a Washington Post analysis of UF suggests there are many) and assaults reported from off-cam-pus fraternity houses, the dorms and apartments of fraternity members and UF Health Shands 
Hospital.
Whether for presence of alcohol, increased 
social and sexual interactions or some other fac-
tor, fraternities seem to be hotbeds for sexual 
misconduct, despite providing a perfect oppor-
tunity for vast, mandatory group education as tight-knit organizations accountable to univer-sity standards.
So what are we doing wrong?
A representative from UF Greek Affairs ofﬁ  ce 
told me every Greek-afﬁ  liated student must take 
a sexual assault education module, but in my interviews with fraternity members, its effects 
barely register.
“I don’t think there’s anything. At least that 
I remember,” Pi Lamda Phi Fraternity brother 
Jared Blinderman told me via text in response to whether he received any sexual assault educa-
tion in his fraternity.
This module is administered once to each 
member over a four year period, and re-empha-
sized only once each semester during a risk edu-
cation event given in compliance with UF Greek 
standards. The content and medium of that event varies by fraternity.
To Jane, this just doesn’t go far enough to 
paint a clear picture of consent for these men.
“The thing is, it’s their world view,” she said 
with the tacit knowledge of experience. “How is one seminar going to change a guy’s world view?”
Champe Barton is a UF economics and psychol-
ogy senior. His column appears on Fridays.Can we please stop hanging 
out in the library for fun?Sexual assault education at UF falls 
short when needed the mostColumn Column
Champe 
Barton
opinions@alligator.org
3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com
12 PC SUPER TAILGATE
GO GATORS!GO GATORS!
$5 off  with 
this adDRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
• Musicians/Bands  
  WANTED
• Pavilion available for  
  group rental• 18 miles to UF Campus
17500 NE US Highway 301
Waldo, FL 32694
352-468-3988
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
THE PROGRAM COULD 
SAVE UP TO $1 MILLION.
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
To reduce the time elderly patients 
spend recovering in the hospital, UF 
Health Shands Hospital launched a new program focused on those 70 and older.
The Acute Care for the Elderly pro-
gram, or ACE, began Monday. Acute care is shorter-term treatment for an injury or illness, like pneumonia, said Dr. Laurence Solberg, the chief of the Division of Geriatric Medicine at Shands.
In addition to decreasing the length 
of hospital stays and rate of readmis-
sion, the program aims to increase 
the quality of patient care and save money. 
As of Tuesday, Solberg said the 
program has about 10 patients.
The program saves money for the 
hospital by more accurately using hos-pital resources and reducing unneces-sary testing or treatments, he said. 
“As we age, our bodies change,” 
he said. “When we get older, the way that we break down and handle drugs, medications, is very different. And so, the same dose that may be safe in a younger person, may be inappropriate in an older person.” 
Studies done in other hospitals im-
plementing similar programs predict about $500,000 to $1 million in sav-ings, he said.   
Solberg said older patients have 
lessened physical and cognitive abili-ties, which impacts how they are able to recover.
“A lot of times, in the rapid assess-
ment that we do in the hospital, those 
kinds of nuances get left behind,” he 
said.
Planning for the program began in  
March after David Guzick, the senior vice president for health affairs at UF, said he wanted something at Shands that catered to the elderly.
The care program was launched 
in one area of the hospital, internal 
medicine, to begin with. The area was 
selected because it has the highest av-erage rate of admitted elderly patients over the last year, Solberg said. 
“We take the standard of care, and 
then we add the ACE unit to it,” he said.
Solberg said Shands has been building its geriatric focus and, for the last two years, it has been a top-50 rat-ed geriatrics program in the U.S. News and World Report.
“We’re very proud of that, and, in 
building our geriatrics faculty, we saw 
this as an opportunity to do more for 
the older population,” he said. 
Dr. Marco Pahor, the director of the 
UF Institute on Aging, said the hospi-tal may have upfront costs from hir-ing more physicians, but the program ultimately has cost benefits for the hospital and the health of the people admitted. 
He said the elderly typically have 
more diseases and need many medica-tions, which creates a more complex treatment process.
The program team will meet every 
day to discuss patients, he said.
“It’s a team approach versus a sin-
gle approach,” he said. 
Dr. Jacobo Hincapie-Echeverri, the 
director of inpatient and ACE at UF Health, said the first few days of the program have been hectic.
“It puts more responsibility on my 
shoulders, but I’ve noticed improve-ments in how we discuss patients,” he said.UF Shands team to help elderly patients 
“I know people that have come in for 
years,” she said. “I may not remember their name, but once they start talking I’ll remember their drink and what they get to eat. It’s an ad-venture, every day is an adventure.” 
Her longevity is a testament to how well Ol-
ive Garden treats its employees, said Popp, 32.
“People aren’t going to stick around 32 
years if it’s a horrible place to work,” the Gainesville native said.
The three weeks vacation time Gosselin 
gets every year has also helped her and her husband keep close. 
Even though they’re on opposite schedules 
— Erin working nights, and Bob, who retired after a 26 years with the Orange County Po-lice Department, working two days a week at Winn-Dixie — they look forward to the times they can load up on Bob’s motorcycle and drive out across state lines. 
They’ve traveled through all but 12 states 
together, they’ve hit every national park, six provinces of Canada and dipped their feet in 
both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans together, 
Bob said. 
In September 2015 they rode 7,800 miles in 
two weeks, traveling up Florida to Mount St. Helens to California and back home. He sees their vacation time together now as making up for time they missed together when he was an officer.
Even now in retirement, Bob supports his 
wife’s long career in the restaurant business. He said he’s never felt she should leave or retire early unless she wanted to. He’s even thought about taking up restaurant work him-self to learn how to cook.
“Working for the Olive Garden is a respect-
able job, it’s never been anything other than a respectable place to work,” he said. “I wanted to go to work in the kitchen myself, cause I love food, I want to learn how to use all the fancy sauces they use to make it taste better.” 
For Amanda and Huseyin Yesilbas, alcohol 
isn’t their thing. 
Yet for the past 11 years, the couple has 
spent at least one night a week behind the bar counter. 
Usually on a Tuesday or Wednesday at 
about 6 p.m., Amanda Yesilbas, 40, a Florida Virtual School employee, will pick Huseyin up from his programming job and go to Olive Gar-den.
They rarely need a menu; Gosselin will 
have their order ready within minutes of them walking in. 
A pasta fagioli soup, full of steamy beef and 
beans, and breadsticks for Amanda. A cheese fonduta appetizer bowl for Huseyin. On oc-casion he’ll get a cappuccino with a splash of liquor. 
Then, it’s usually an hour-to-90-minute 
chat between Amanda and Gosselin about ev-erything from their pets to their shared passion of science fiction. 
The bartender-patron pair has taken a pho-
tography course at Santa Fe College together, and Gosselin brings her 6-year-old grand-daughter, Chloe, to Amanda’s homemade jew-elry sales. 
It’s a friendship born and bred at the coun-
ter. 
“I don’t even remember what we began 
chatting about when we first met — she had 
Great Danes, I would’ve shown her my kit-
tens,” Amanda said. “Erin is amazing, she’s become a real friend.” 
Being behind the bar since 1997, Gosselin’s 
seen it all: rowdy customers, more and more cellphone use at the counter than strangers talking to one another. 
The drinks themselves are different, she 
said. 
One of her favorite drinks to make, the 
Old Fashioned — a cocktail made of whiskey, mashed sugar, sour flavoring and a slice of citrus — only attracts the older crowd. Nowa-days, more people, especially the younger gen-eration, go for fruitier, lighter drinks. 
“Some of the things (back then) are more 
straight alcohol, like really hardcore, where now it’s more flavors.” she said, “We have 
more flavored beers, we have the flavored 
whiskeys, the flavored rums, the flavored vod-kas. Things were not flavored back then.” 
Changing with the times, she’s incorpo-
rated a new fruity drink into her favorites ar-senal: the strawberry mango margarita, which she makes by adding a strawberry puree at the bottom of the glass and then pouring in frozen mango smoothie, pushing the puree upward in a swirl. 
“I feel kind of like a mad scientist doing it,” 
she said. 
Her whole life was in restaurants.Her parents, Peggy and Danny, were al-
ways cooking as Gosselin grew up. They owned a bakery in Orlando before opening the mom-and-pop dinner spot Charis Hall Family Restaurant in Maryland in 1987.  
For years, whenever Gosselin visited her 
parents and younger siblings during a holiday break in college or on vacation from work, her dad usually had the same words ready as she walked in through the restaurant’s glass doors.
“Mom and I are going out,” he would say. 
“You’re in charge, let me know if you need any help.”And just like that they would leave, either 
to escape the rush of the restaurant or have a date night. 
Gosselin said she learned how to run a 
floor, talk to customers and bond with staff on busy nights. 
Years after the restaurant closed down and 
long after her parents passed away in the early 
2000s, she sees her mom and dad in herself as 
she stands behind the bar, still mixing drinks, providing a service to her customers: happi-ness, pleasure, comfort.
The restaurant business is a part of her, and 
she’s not letting go of it anytime soon, she said. 
“It’s hard to describe when you’re in restau-
rants — it’s in your blood,” she said. You may want to try something else, but you always go 
back to the restaurant. There’s an excitement 
in the air. It’s an adventure.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
BARTENDER,  from pg. 1She’s been bartending since 1997said. Cellvana Biotechnology, 
a company that developed a way to effectively and rapidly 
culture cells, walked away 
with the $50,000 prize this year.
The two-story building 
was designed and constructed using the Fibonacci sequence, Ladendorf said. The dome in the middle of the building rises 60 feet. Inside, the mu-
seum will highlight the story 
of Gatorade, Florida technol-ogy and incorporate travel-ling interactive exhibits. It’s 
expected to open to the public 
in April 2018, she said.
In the past, the Cade Mu-
seum has been viewed as a children’s museum, but now 
they’ll offer programming and 
exhibits for all ages, Laden-dorf said.John Shea is grateful for 
the experiences the Cade Museum has given his son, 
Tucker.
“I’m glad (Cade has) 
the building now,” he said. 
“Without the physical pres-
ence where people see it 
there, I think some people just don’t know the opportu-nities there.”
He believes the new build-
ing will help rejuvenate the community that surrounds it and foster exploration like he’s seen in his son.
“The museum here is sort 
of an anchor of creativity and innovation,” he said. “I think it’s awesome.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCADE,  from pg. 1The building will 
open to public in April
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Erin Gosselin laughs as she talks with a customer Thursday.
•   •   •
•   •   •FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Lindsey Vasti
Alligator Contributing Writer
A fraternity plans to celebrate their 
identities for children who can’t learn 
about their own.
The Alpha Upsilon chapter of Omega 
Delta Phi Fraternity will celebrate in-
dividual identities through I Identify 
Week, which began Tuesday.
The fraternity is raising money for the Child Advocacy Center, Inc. in Gainesville, a nonprofit organization that provides assistance to abused and neglected children, said Deionté Harvey, a 20-year-old UF international studies sophomore and member of the fraternity.
Although students at UF have the op-
portunity to explore their identities, chil-dren at the CAC do not, Harvey said.
“A lot of children at the CAC don’t 
really get the time or space to celebrate themselves or think about their identi-ties,” Harvey said. “We want to educate people about how lucky they are to be able to do that on our campus.”
The group will host a student organi-
zation fair Monday at 6:30 p.m. in Pugh Hall, and has been reaching out to stu-
dents at the Reitz Union. 
“We’ve had activities that emphasize 
identity, gender expression and privi-
lege,” Harvey said.Fraternity fundraises for child advocacyMORE THAN 400 PARKING SPOTS 
CAN NOW BE PAID FOR 
BY SMARTPHONE.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Beginning Monday, city parking in Gainesville 
will be easier for smartphone users. 
Drivers can now use their smartphones to pay for 
parking at any of the city-owned metered parking 
spots in Gainesville, said Gainesville spokesperson 
Chip Skinner. 
“Everybody this day and age has moved to elec-
tronic versions of payment systems and not keeping change and cash on hand,” he said. 
Payment can now be done through PassportPark-
ing, a free mobile app. Along with paying to park, drivers also receive a notification when their meter 
is about to expire and have the option to extend the time from their phone, Skinner said. 
“That is a huge benefit to keep people from being 
cited for being in a parking space too long,” he said. 
PassportParking app users will be charged a 35-
cent transaction fee each time they make a payment to a meter through the app, Skinner said. Just more than 400 parking spots in Gainesville are now acces-
sible through the PassportParking app. 
Desperately rustling through her bag in search 
of a quarter is an all-too-familiar feeling for Lydia Wirgau. The UF Chinese junior is looking forward to 
never being stuck in that predicament again, thanks to the mobile app.
“I feel like that is just a really convenient way 
to be able to use metered parking,” the 21-year-old said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCity introduces 
parking app  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
T aylor Roth, a 19-year-old public relations sophomore and member of Young Americans for Liberty invites Joseph 
DeLuca, a 22-year-old UF linguistics student , to their general body meeting. The club had a mini jail cell demonstration on Turlington Plaza on Thursday morning to raise awareness about U.S. incarceration rates. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK song
MOST OF THE ITEMS WERE 50 TO 
70 PERCENT OFF.
By Maria Dominguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
At Ollie’s Bargain Outlet on Wednesday, 
shoppers found deals for $1.50 T-shirts and 
$39.99 printers.
The ﬁ  rst Gainesville location of the Flor-
ida chain opened for hundreds of custom-
ers in Northside Shopping Center, located at 
2340 N. Main St., at 9 a.m. The discount 
outlet opened where Big Lots used to be.
Described as closeout merchandise, Ol-
lie’s products from food to electronics are 
priced from 99 cents to $699, said Sharon 
McVey, the store assistant team leader.
“We’ve got everything, and if we don’t 
have it you don’t need it,” McVey said. “That’s our motto: get stuff cheap.”
Most of the store was 50 to 70 percent 
off, and some of the specials included 
$199.99 chair recliners and $159.99 televi-sions, which quickly went out of stock.
Andy Valladon, 45, visited the store on 
its ﬁ  rst day and was impressed by its size and how popular it was.
“I wasn’t expecting this,” Valladon said. 
“The store has a lot of promotions going on. I was looking at the K-Cup pods, and they are a third of the price. I will probably be 
back.”
Other locations nearby include Ocala, 
Palatka and Jacksonville, McVey said.
McVey said she hopes the store becomes 
what people think of when they need to go shopping.
“We want to be a destination store,” she 
said. “To be the biggest and the best.”Store opens on Main Street
Maria Dominguez / Alligator Contributor
Customers walk in and out of Ollie’s Bargain Outlet in Northside Shopping Center, 
located at 2340 N. Main St. The store opened Wednesday to hundreds of customers.
By Soﬁ  a Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Pulitzer Prize for Poetry winning author will speak 
at UF for the 2017 Florida Writers Festival.
Paul Muldoon, a poet known for “Moy Sand and Grav-
el,” will speak at the event in the Ustler Hall Atrium with 
three other authors Nov. 3-4. The festival is free and open to all students.
The authors were selected by the UF English depart-
ment and members of the MFA Creative Writing program. There will be two writers and two poets.
“We draw a list of writers who we would like to invite 
because we admire their work and we think that they have something new to say, to tell us, to teach us and also who we think are going to draw students at the uni-
versity and people in the community at large,” said David 
Leavitt, a co-director of the MFA program at UF. 
The other authors are Lydia Davis, Lawrence Joseph 
and Rachel Cusk.
To gauge which authors they would bring, Leavitt said 
they considered student enthusiasm.
“We actually try to give the students a lot of say in 
making these decisions because they do all the legwork,” said Leavitt.
Joseph, a poet, said he’ll be reading from his latest 
work, “So Where Are We?: Poems.”
“I’ve given readings, talks at several festivals — Flor-
ida’s is one of the oldest and most prestigious, and I feel honored to participate in it with Lydia Davis, Paul Mul-
doon, and Rachel Cusk, three of my most favorite writ-
ers,” Joseph wrote in an email.Pulitzer-winning 
author to speak at UF
THE PROMO CODE GIVES 
FREE DELIVERY AND A $1 
DONATION TO CHARITY.
By Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bite Squad delivery service hopes to 
take a bite out of hunger in North Cen-
tral Florida.
The delivery company is partnering 
with Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, located at 325 NW 10 Ave., and will 
give $1 per qualifying order to the food 
bank, which provides supplies to food-insecure people in the area until Nov. 
30, said Liz Sniegocki, Bite Squad’s 
ﬁ  eld marketing manager.
Gainesville customers who use the 
code “MIGHTY” at checkout will get free delivery — up to $10 — and Bite 
Squad will donate $1 to Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. Sniegocki said the 
Food Love program is in six cities Bite 
Squad serves.
“The Food Love partnership is an op-
portunity for Bite Squad to be involved in the communities we serve and help 
bring food love to our neighbors who 
are battling true hunger,” she said.Every $1 donated to the food bank 
helps fund distribution for up to seven 
meals, said Carla Hill, Bread of the 
Mighty Food Bank’s development di-
rector.
Katey Exum, a UF accounting ju-
nior, routinely uses Bite Squad because 
she says they’re fast and friendly. She 
said she’s more likely to order from the 
service again because she wants free 
delivery.
“Having delivery be free and giving 
back to the community makes me more inclined to never go get my own food 
again,” the 20-year-old said.Delivery service fundraises for food bankBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested four Gainesville teenagers — one of whom 
told ofﬁ  cers the group had burglarized 10 cars — on Tuesday, 
Gainesville Police said.
Jarod Austin Sherrod, 19, was driving the car of Ethan Kai 
Grady, 19, with Charles Dylan Land, 19, and a 15-year-old at about 3 a.m. when police, who were canvassing the neigh-
borhood near Devil’s Millhopper Geological State Park for a suspicious car a resident saw, stopped them, according to an 
arrest report.
Police searched Grady’s car and found prescription pill 
bottles with another person’s name on them and other items 
ofﬁ  cers said looked like they had been stolen.A case of Bud Light beer was found in the car, and police 
discovered Bud Light beer cans at the scenes of car burglaries in the neighborhood, according to the report. Police said the 
cans at those cars and in Grady’s car were still cold.
Grady told detectives he and the group went car hopping in 
the neighborhood, according to the report. He estimated they burglarized about 10 cars in about 15 minutes before police 
stopped them.
Police arrested Sherrod, Grady and Land on charges of bur-
glary and petty theft and took them to the Alachua County Jail. As of press time, the minor Grady and Land are being held in lieu of bonds worth $112,000, $109,500 and $129,500 
respectively.
Because the 15-year-old is a minor, his custody information 
is unknown.GPD: Teens arrested for car burglariesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
ACCELERATED SALE9 UNIQUE WATERFRONT LOTSPort Charlotte, FLBID ONLINEBids Close: November 9 @ 3 PMSVN Accelerated Saleswww.SVNAuctions.com941-882- 0586            10-27-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews and pew chairs. 1-800- 231-8360. www.pews1.com       10-27-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N      10-27-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITSFully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-16 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Subleases12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.
Family business in Alachua.
Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      
10-27-17-7-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.
The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 - 20 hours / week. Fast & accurate typ-
ing required. Send resume to combehserv@
gmail.com    10-30-17-5-14
Elder and special needs law firm seek-
ing a receptionist for a part-time position. Candidate should be familiar with Microsoft Office, be comfortable on the phone, and have reliable transportation. Please email resume and cover letter to amandam@millerelderlawfirm.com.     10-30-17-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos
 14 Help Wanted 13 WantedFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)lil'bear essentials
teething necklaces & soothing toys
Online only at www.lilbearessentials.com    
10-27-1-21
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 10/30- 11/2 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.   10-30-17-4-20Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.     10-27-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Apples on a desk
6 Unattached
10 Ruler meas.
13 Two-sport
Sanders
14 Texas city15 Leave work16 Braugher of
“Brooklyn Nine-Nine”
17 Maker of Swift
laptops
18 Waiter at a stand
19 Watch a music-
streaming app?
22 Garden State city24 “__ be the judge
of that”
25 Make the call26 Organize circus
performers?
30 Afflicts
31 Where Spike Lee
earned his MFA
32 Louisville Slugger
wood
33 Answered
counterpart
35 Little devil
37 Brazilian music
genre
41 Up to, for short
43 Blanc with “That’s
all folks” on his
gravestone
45 Punch or file
46 Rationalize one’s
need for duelassistance?
50 Actress Aniston,
in tabloids
51 Afternoon social
52 “Mean Girls”
actress Seyfried
53 Worship at the
altar of
buttercream?
57 Declare openly
58 Streaming on
Facebook
59 Tantalus’
daughter
62 Manage
63 Over
64 Further out there
65 Start of
something?
66 Gets some sun
67 Sparkling wine
choices
DOWN
1 Mont. neighbor2 “White __ Can’t
Jump”3 Charity fundraiser
since 1985
4 Vital business
holdings
5 Villainous
visages
6 Exchange
7 Folded Mexican
fare
8 Vinegary, as acid
9 Brute
10 Oscar-winning
“Gravity” director
Alfonso
11 Mistakes12 Stretch on the job
15 Invoice abbr.
20 Parchment source21 Dental visit
freebie
22 Org. that fills
bowls?
23 Bulldog fans
27 “Just an update”
letters
28 Delish
29 “Need my help?”34 Catchy tune
36 Edible orb
38 Selene and Luna39 No foe40 Only actor to
appear in everyepisode of“M*A*S*H”42 Become
prostrate
44 Future atty.’s
exam
46 Valet in
Wodehouse
stories
47 Labor parties?48 Oatmeal
alternative
49 Key of Dvorák’s
New World
Symphony50 Singles network
logo with a partly
outlined Star ofDavid
54 Chain email
abbr.
55 It may be self-
cleaning
56 Works with
threads
60 Pollen carrier
61 Hectic hosp.
zones
By Andy Kravis and Erik Agard©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/27/1710/27/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 27, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 “The Hobbit”
figure
6 Moneyless deal
10 It may involve an
exchange of
letters
14 Like a raucous
crowd
15 Grassy “pet”
16 Binged (on)17 FAN20 Donkey Kong, e.g.21 Tiny bit22 Gas in an arc
lamp
23 Cultural opening?
24 Working away26 FAN33 Dark34 Holy Week
season
35 Menagerie
36 Organa family
royal
37 Outback
youngsters
39 Cover up
40 Is for many41 Trombone’s
symphonicneighbor
42 First two-time
Nobelist
43 FAN
47 False move48 Try in court49 “Star Wars”
genre
52 Contrary girl of
rhyme
53 Relaxation spot56 FAN60 Oblique look61 Lowland62 Din63 Bigelow products64 Cut without
mercy, as abudget
65 Maker of
iComfortmattresses
DOWN
1 Swimmer Torres
with 12 Olympic
medals
2 Sub alternative
3 As good as it
gets
4 Joplin work
5 Train load6 Nova __7 “Just a doggone
minute!”8 Legal __
9 Legal __
10 Longs for
enviously
11 Mr. Wednesday’s
real identity in“American Gods”
12 Artistic style of
L.A.’s Eastern
Columbia
Building
13 Churchill’s 1955
successor
18 Hand-holding
celebratory dance
19 Be real
23 Where
Vladivostok is
24 __-deucey
25 Arithmetic
column
26 Solzhenitsyn
subject
27 Día de Reyes
month
28 “That wasn’t
quite true ... ”
29 Do housework30 Netflix drama set
in a Missourimountain resort
31 WWII riveter32 Devices used
with oxcarts
37 Rubbish38 Flute’s symphonic
neighbor
39 Sierra Club
founder
41 With “the,” East
and West, in a
Kipling ballad
42 Colorful set
44 They’re music to
job-seekers’ ears
45 Molded46 Maryland athlete,
familiarly49 Cellar contents
50 First Nations
tribe
51 Thought52 Backless shoe53 Start to wake up
54 Sitter’s challenge55 Geometry figure
57 Power agcy.
since 1933
58 Jazz band staple
59 Landmark ’70s
case anonym
By Mark McClain©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/26/1710/26/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 26, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Spoil
1.  Theft5.  Indian prince
2.  Monarch’s title6.  Tomato ____
3.  ____ pipe7.  Subway ____
4.  Hold dear, revere PEAMPR
CRYPIAJAAHR
CESUA
AMTSJYE
UXHETSAMYSEST
SEMETEANSWERS: 1A-Pamper  5A-Rajah  6A-Sauce  7A-System
1D-Piracy  2D-Majesty  3D-Exhaust  4D-Esteem  B-Jimmy Carter10-27-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This former U.S. president is the author of 23 books 
(21 of which he wrote after he was president). 
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The UF volleyball team's cancer 
tribute tonight is especially meaningful for Lindsey Rogers, who has spent years of her life watching her family fight the disease. Read the feature, pg. 17.Suspended Gators take first steps to playing again
Seven of Florida's nine players accused of credit card fraud, including 
receiver Antonio Callaway and running back Jordan Scarlett, have agreed 
to enter pretrial intervention programs, which would give them a chance to 
have their felony charges dropped. Read the story at alligator.org/sports.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Michel and Chubb. Chubb and Michel. The more 
you hear those names in Saturday’s game, the more 
it means the No. 3 Bulldogs (7-0, 4-0 SEC) are doing 
what they want. Running backs Nick Chubb and 
Sony Michel are the focal points of a Georgia 
offense that will face Florida (3-3, 3-2 SEC) 
at 3:30 p.m. Saturday in Jacksonville. The 
two backs blow through tackles, break de-
fenses with long runs and rank top 10 in 
the SEC in rushing yards per game.
“They’re physical backs,” Gators 
linebacker Jeremiah Moon said. 
“They’re both seniors. They’re going 
to get paid.”
Softening Georgia’s one-two 
punch out of the backfield is a 
priority for Florida, a team that 
desperately wants to rebound 
from back-to-back home losses. 
Letting Chubb and Michel run 
free has been a recipe for suc-
cess against all of Georgia’s 
opponents this season. 
Gators coach Jim McEl-
wain recognizes that 
threat.“They’ve done an outstanding job, those backs, 
of keeping you off-balance,” McElwain said.
UF linebacker David Reese said the duo of 
Chubb and Michel is likely the best rushing tan-dem Florida has faced all season. But he said the Gators are well-prepared after playing against top rushers like Vanderbilt’s Ralph Webb, Ten-nessee’s John Kelly and LSU’s Derrius Guice.
Even so, the Gators haven’t proven they 
can completely stifle the run. Florida has let three teams rush for more than 180 yards this season. And 
Georgia runs the ball more than 
anyone in the SEC.
The only thing Florida can do 
is prepare. Moon, a redshirt fresh-man, said the defense has gotten 
practice out of trying to stop UF’s own 
running backs in drills. And he believes in Florida’s chances as long as individual defenders do their jobs.
“Tackling, knowing our assignment 
and we’ll be all right,” Moon said.
“We just got to stop them. That’s 
it.”            
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgGeorgia's top dogs
7.2 yards per carry
82 yards per game6.4 yards per carry
98.3 yards per game#1 Sony Michel
blah blah blah blah#27 Nick 
Chubb
SOCCER: SOUTH CAROLINA 1, FLORIDA 0
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Elexa Bahr dribbled left, cut 
right and prepared to shoot. 
Then, she stopped. She wasn’t 
satisfied with the distance. She 
took one more hard touch into the Gators’ box and let the ball fly. She hit it squarely into the top left 
corner of the net, zooming past 
goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese for the lone score of the night.
The No. 17 Gators (13-5, 7-3 
SEC) succumbed to the No. 2 South Carolina Gamecocks (15-1-1, 9-0-1 SEC) Thursday night at Donald R. Dizney Stadium in a 1-0 loss.
Regardless of the match's re-
sult, the Gators were assured the No. 3 seed in the SEC Tourna-
ment in Orange Beach, Alabama. 
Florida is scheduled to arrive in Alabama Sunday night to play against the No. 6-seeded Auburn on Tuesday.
Even with the lack of first-
half goals, the early stages of the match could not have been more tense on several key plays. In the 15th minute, defender Julia Les-ter played a cross into the USC box from the near sideline. The 
ball just grazed off the head of 
midfielder Deanne Rose and onto the foot of midfielder Sarah Troc-
coli. While fighting off a defend-
er, Troccoli lobbed the ball high into the air and over Gamecocks goalie Mikayla Krzeczowski. It bounced off the goal line, hit the crossbar on its way back up, and 
was finally cleared by the Game-
cocks’ defense. While the game featured fewer 
fouls compared to other tough matches for the Gators, the physi-cality of the contest was evident 
throughout. Yellow cards were 
issued to each team in the first 48 minutes. Gators defender 
Rachelle Smith was injured on 
her card-worthy infraction, a takedown of South Carolina’s Savannah McCaskill just outside Florida’s box. Smith stayed on the pitch to make an important clear-
ance in her own box just minutes 
later. UF Coach Becky Burleigh said 
her team “had the talent to be right there with them,” and that she was a fan of the way the 
Gamecocks played. 
“I think they’re one of the best 
teams in this league, and they’ve done that consistently,” Burleigh 
said. “But I also think we have the talent to be right there with them.” 
Troccoli, starting at midfield in 
place of the injured Gabby Seiler, 
Gators drop final regular-season game to GamecocksIf the Gators want a win Saturday, 
they'll need to muzzle two of the 
SEC's best backs.
SEE SOCCER,  BACK PAGEFRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Shock is all Steve Rogers felt when he heard 
the news, as he was lying in his hospital bed, 
recovering from surgery on his ruptured pan-creas.
The doctors were supposed to say some-
thing along the lines of, ‘the surgery went well and you should be back on your feet soon.’
Instead, they told him he had cancer. They 
found it while he was on the operating table.
Sixteen years ago, Steve’s life was turned 
upside down.
He was an account executive at IBM when 
it happened. His wife, Wendy, was a stay at home mom, helping to raise their three kids — all under 10 years old — Christopher, Preston and Lindsey, who currently wears No. 25 for the Gators volleyball team.
Tonight at 7, he’ll have a chance to watch 
his daughter play in Florida’s annual ‘Dig Pink’ match, which aims to raise funds and increase 
awareness for breast cancer.
“I think that when they were growing up, 
the C-word, cancer, just meant that your dad 
or your mom was going to die,” Steve said. “I mean, that’s what everybody just expected from cancer, so tough on the kids because — you know, just wondering when their mom or dad is going to die.”
Luckily for Steve, the doctors found the 
pancreatic cancer early, when it was still Stage 1. They operated, removed it and ordered up some chemotherapy to be safe.
Case closed.But then, in 2003 — just a couple years af-
ter Steve fought off pancreatic cancer — the 
disease hit the family again. 
Wendy was diagnosed with Stage 2 breast 
cancer. She was in chemotherapy for about 
six months and on radiation treatments for six weeks. Hormonal therapy stuck with her for 10 years, though.
Ultimately, both Steve and Wendy pushed 
through and saw their cancers go into remis-sion.
One of the deadliest diseases in the world 
picked a fight with the Rogers family, twice.
And both times, it lost.
***
Faith has always been a big part of the Rog-
ers’ family life.
The family went to church together, and 
Christopher, Preston and Lindsey all attended Holy Comforter Episcopal School in Tallahas-see.
If you ask them, they’ll tell you exactly 
when they saw their faith in action.
“(Steve) was out on a canoe trip,” Lindsey 
started. “He was on a rope swing and his hands were muddy and he slipped off the rope swing, 
and when he did that he did a belly flop and 
that ended up rupturing his pancreas, which caused him to go to the emergency room.”
Steve doesn’t think it was an accident.“If I didn’t fall off that rope swing,” Steve 
said, “... they wouldn’t have found the cancer so early.”
Finding it early may have been the key to 
saving his life.
“One of the other dads on the canoe trip 
said ‘Steve, I saw an angel pull you off the rope swing,’” Lindsey said. “So my family is very big in just trusting in the Lord’s plan and where he leads us.”
In the 1980s, that plan led Steve and Wendy 
to roster spots on a couple of Division I sports teams.
Steve spent a year on the Florida football team, and Wendy won the 1982 national championship with the Florida State softball team.
“I was there for a short time, but I decided 
it was time to study,” Steve said. “Wendy was on the team and was a contributor for all four years, including during the national champion-
ship season.”
Christopher and Preston played golf through 
high school, and Lindsey took part in a number 
of sports growing up.
She played competitive volleyball and soft-
ball until high school, when she chose to focus solely on volleyball.
“I was a hitter in high school so I played 
front row and back row, all the way around,” 
Lindsey said.
Her abilities on the court garnered attention 
from scouts trying to sign the Lawton Chiles 
High School star. Ultimately, she passed up op-portunities to hit at smaller Division I schools to sign as a defensive specialist with a national powerhouse in Florida, led by legendary coach Mary Wise.
Since Wise took over in 1991 the Gators 
have owned the SEC, winning the conference 18-straight years at one point. Florida has nev-er missed the NCAA Tournament under Wise, either.
Lindsey, 22, is now in her final season with 
the Gators.
“It’s been a really good ride,” she said. “It’s 
gone by super fast, but I’ve enjoyed all of it.”
***
Steve’s checkup in December 2016 was 
supposed to be routine. He made the familiar trip to the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, where he had always gone for his cancer treatments.
Once again a procedure involving one in-
jury exposed a more sinister problem — in this case, a simple X-ray led doctors to find lung cancer.
Steve was more shocked with this news 
than he was the first time he was told he had cancer.
He hadn’t smoked a day in his life — al-
though he said his mother did while he was growing up.
It wasn’t as bad as it could have been, 
though.
“It was Stage 1 and they removed it,” he re-
called. “No chemo, no radiation. The protocol 
in the staging of the cancer didn’t require it, 
so I just recovered from the surgery and went back to work and back to leading my life.”
Steve was discharged from the hospital 
on Christmas Eve. Lindsey called it the best Christmas present anyone in the family could ask for.
A follow-up appointment in April 2017 pro-
vided more good news.
“They did scans again and everything 
looked good,” Steve said.
With some peace of mind, Lindsey headed 
to California. The rising senior spent the sum-mer out west after securing an internship with Fellowship of Christian Athletes.
Her return home in August was marred by 
another wave of bad news, however.
“When I came back, mom and dad said that 
he had had a mass on his head,” Lindsey said.
But it wasn’t just her dad’s head that need-
ed attention.
After enduring another round of tests and 
scans, Steve was told his lung cancer was back, and worse than before.
Not only was it Stage 4, but it had spread to 
his shoulder, hip, spine and sternum as well.
The cancer had camped out in his lungs, 
bones and tissues — and this time it was too late for surgery.
“It’s just chemicals versus cancer at this 
point,” Steve said.
So, once again, Lindsey watched her fa-
ther travel to Jacksonville for treatments at the Mayo Clinic.
“They got him in really quickly,” Lindsey 
said. “Mayo (Clinic) has done a commercial on my family, so I swear they know everyone in 
it. Like, you walk in there and everyone’s like 
‘Hello Mr. Rogers!’”
It’s still tough on Steve, though, as he deals 
with the rigors of cancer treatment. He was put on chemotherapy and radiation therapy imme-diately after the doctors’ most recent diagnosis.
It’s hard to go from Tallahassee to Jackson-
ville every three weeks, but he tries not to let it bring him down.
The doctors say he might need treatments 
the rest of his life. While he admits that scenar-io can be demoralizing, he says he’s OK with it — but there’s another thing that bothers him.
“I think the misconception about (che-
motherapy) treatment is that your hair falls out and you look really sick,” he said. “That doesn’t always happen.”
Steve didn’t lose any hair, but he did gain 
perspective. He came to learn that cancer is a whole-body sickness. He learned that the men-tal and physical strain it puts on your body feels like a case of the flu that won’t go away.
But most importantly, he learned that it’s 
not an individual disease.
“Everybody that’s around you is affected,” 
he said. “Your wife, your kids, your friends, your coworkers, because they feel so bad for you.”
That’s why when people tell Steve he’s in 
their thoughts and prayers he thanks them, but asks that they include Wendy, Christopher, Preston and Lindsey — because it’s not just his burden.
Steve and Wendy are kept busy with their 
regular trips to Jacksonville, but they still find a way to come to Lindsey’s volleyball matches.
Lindsey said they’re doing more than just 
supporting her and her team in the stands, though.
“After all the games (Steve) goes around 
and says hi to everyone and is always making sure he puts a smile on people’s faces,” she 
said.
She also said that her dad’s responding to 
his current regimen of treatments over at Mayo 
Clinic.
“His spirit makes such an impact,” Lindsey 
said. “His fighting spirit.”UF volleyball’s Lindsey Rogers has witnessed cancer grip her family
Alligator File Photo
Gators volleyball player Lindsey Rogers has seen both of her parents survive cancer 
scares. T onight, UF will honor those with the disease for the ‘Dig Pink’ match. 
The fight of their lives
•   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
CROSS COUNTRY
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
After finishing their last two meets of the 
regular season within the top five of the lead-
erboard, the Gators men’s and women’s cross country teams will compete in the SEC Cham-pionships in Athens, Georgia, this morning.
The women’s team has to adjust its lineup 
after being affected by numerous injuries and will now focus on a core of four runners as it heads into the meet hosted by Georgia.
“We got a few girls that we’ve been con-
servative with this season, making sure we didn’t cause any major injuries,” assistant coach Chris Solinsky said. “I don’t know ex-actly where that’s gonna leave us at the SEC meet. This year, I think leaves us a little bit 
further behind where we would hope to be 
in a year.”
The injury total for the women’s squad 
is six, ranging from tendonitis to hip labrum 
surgery. One runner who will sit out today’s meet is redshirt junior Lauren Perry, who has 
nerve problem in her heel. 
“I think our top four 
could really put it together 
and then we have someone 
step up in that fifth run-ners spot,” Solinsky said. 
“That’s the question mark 
we’re going into this week-end with who’s gonna be that fifth runner. Do the top four do their job well enough that we can afford some flexibility on 
that last score?”
These injuries have forced the Gators to 
keep some of their athletes off the course, 
but it hasn’t stopped their drive to work to-gether and place high in its postseason meets. Sophomore Jessica Pascoe, recovering from 
tendonitis in her foot, understands how vi-
tal it is to step up and perform in light of her teammate’s injuries. 
“Just keeping everyone together (and) not 
worrying about our position on the team, but worrying about where we place on the field 
for the team,” Pascoe said. “This will be one 
of the first chances to really compete so (I want to) see what I can do off of all the train-ing I’ve done.”
The teams are coming off third-place fin-ishes at the FSU Invitational where Pascoe led 
the UF women’s team and redshirt sophomore 
Jack Rogers took the lead for the UF men’s 
team. Rogers will enter today’s race with the goal to stay close together in a pack, and use each other to push forward in the race. 
“We’ve been working the whole season 
on pack running and staying competitive with the other runners, but not getting complacent just because you’re next to a teammate,” Rog-ers said. “Sometimes guys will be next to a teammate and they’ll be like ‘oh I’m with a teammate, we don’t have to go fast right now, 
we’re working together.’ But then they’re fall-
ing off the pack.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org
UF women’s team battling injuries before SEC ChampionshipsSWIMMING
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The moment sophomore Brooke Mad-
den broke the surface after completing a 
dive, there was only one thing on her mind.
“What’s my score?” she said. “I look at 
my coach, I look at him and say ‘Was it 
good?’”
There were a lot of nods “yes” on Thurs-
day at the O’Connell Center as Madden finished first in the women’s 1-meter dive against Georgia with a score of 316.58. 
The performance came one day after the 
Gators’ meet against Alabama on Wednes-day, where Madden completed a full sweep 
by winning both the women’s 1-meter dive and the women’s 3-meter dive.
“Alabama was our 
first away meet, so it’s 
definitely a lot different,” 
Madden said. “We’ve 
been used to this pool all 
season so far. Getting out 
of our own pool was good 
for us, getting used to dif-
ferent boards and a different environment, but it feels a lot more comfortable to be 
back in our own pool.”
Redshirt senior Dalton Goss was the 
highest-placing Gator on the men’s side, finishing third, with sophomore Alex Far-
row trailing right behind him in fourth.
For Madden, despite the fact there were positives there to take away from her per-formance, she acknowledged there is still 
work to be done.
“It’s the beginning of the season, so 
nothing’s as sharp as I want it to be,” she 
said. “I just need to work on making things 
a little prettier.”
Florida hopes to carry the momentum 
it garnered from Thursday’s diving event 
into today’s swimming competition, where 
it’ll take on Georgia’s No. 6 women’s team 
and No. 12 men’s team.
UF’s No. 3 men’s team will look to con-
tinue its success with SEC Male Swimmer 
of the Week Jan Switkowski leading the charge. For the No. 20 women’s team, it 
will attempt to continue its surge after a 
166-134 victory against the Crimson Tide.The Bulldogs enter today’s competition 
with both the men’s and women’s team 
having won each of their last three meets by at least 40 points. The Bulldogs are 4-0 overall, having defeated Emory, North Car-
olina, Wisconsin and Northwestern, with 
the North Carolina meet their only one at 
home. Georgia has been busy this month, 
and it’ll hope to improve its streak to 5-0 as 
it enters the meet on Friday.
“Conference competitions are a little 
more important to our team in general, just 
because of rivals, with the Florida-Georgia 
rivalry going on,” Madden said.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgMadden kick starts today’s meet vs. Bulldogs with diving win
Madden
Perry
ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2017
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
 310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
The 2017-18 NBA season is now well un-
derway, and already we’re witnessing some 
great things. Rookies across the league are hav-ing profound impacts, and several conference powerhouses are coming to form as they work 
through the growing pains of the early season.
On the flip side, however, there are a few 
teams that have looked so putrid, the only ap-
propriate phrase to describe them is a “dump-ster fire.”
Here are three franchises that have been 
embarrassingly bad at the game of basketball so far this season:
 
New Orleans Pelicans
Now in his third year leading New Orleans, 
coach Alvin Gentry needs Ws now more than ever. Star center DeMarcus Cousins is in a contract year, and mega-star forward Anthony Davis is a top-10 player with not enough talent around him.
Jrue Holiday is a solid point guard, but who 
else is there besides that? Tony Allen, E’Twuan Moore and... Josh Smith? That’s how you know they’re struggling to create rotations.
The Pels are hoping the return 
of Rajon Rondo and Solomon Hill 
creates an actual starting five, 
but it’s still nothing to get excited about.
New Orleans is looking at a 
tough start with sub-.500 record. I know this is an unpopular opinion, but trading Cousins and — dare I say — Davis too, could leave the Pelicans in a solid rebuilding position. We’ve seen what 
happens when a team waits too long and loses 
leverage, leaving them in basketball purgatory (*phlegmy cough* Indiana *phlegmy cough*).
Phoenix Suns
Nobody thought the Suns would be a good 
team this year.
They’re too young. Devin Booker, Mar-
quese Chriss, Dragan Bender and Josh Jackson are very unrefined.
It’s the way they’ve lost that’s 
raised even further questions. Three games to open the year giv-ing up more than 120 points while 
looking pedestrian on offense in 
two of the three contests is not a good look.
Having one of your best play-
ers in Eric Bledsoe blatantly tweet-ing “I don’t want to be here” looks even worse.
Learning that coach Earl Watson was fired 
that same day is just plain ugly.
To be fair, the Suns have won their last two 
under interim coach Jay Triano, albeit against the Sacramento Kings and Utah Jazz. The Kings are in full rebuild and the Jazz lost their best player in Gordon Hayward and have yet to find a consistent scoring replacement.
I’m still going to call the Suns a huge dump-
ster fire, regardless. Phoenix has a terrible track record with keeping players happy like Goran Dragic and Isaiah Thomas, and when a player is tweeting that they don’t want to play for the team anymore, it’s a sure sign that the culture hasn’t changed.
Chicago BullsEvery year, there’s a team almost entirely 
devoid of talent. This year, it’s the Chicago Bulls.
And internally, there’s not a ton of help to 
keep the ship moving forward.
Forward Bobby Portis punched teammate 
Nikola Mirotic directly in the noggin during a practice right before the season opener, caus-
ing Mirotic to be hospitalized and suffer some 
broken bones that you usually want intact in-side your face.
As if that weren’t bad enough, the Bulls 
sloppily hit Portis with just an eight-game sus-pension.
How can you keep a player who assaulted 
another player on the roster and expect them to play together?
When guards Kris Dunn and Zach LaVine 
get into the rotation, maybe it’ll breathe some new life into the United Center, but not enough to stop this raging dumpster fire. 
Taking the time to analyze some NBA dumpster fires$ky Dolla $ign / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @Skyler Lebron
said her team needed to 
have a sense of urgency it didn’t have until the 
final minutes of the loss. 
“I think we really 
picked it up in the last couple of minutes,” Troccoli said. “We kind of put everything for-
ward with some last-ditch efforts.” 
Troccoli and the Gators had chances up until the final seconds ticked off the clock. Pelayo streaked down the near sideline 
with the 10-second countdown and flung 
one last ball into the box. Krzeczowski in-tercepted the cross, and fell to the ground as the final seconds ran off. 
Burleigh said she would love the chance 
for revenge in the SEC Tournament. 
“My biggest hope is to see them again,” 
Burleigh said. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14UF loses to South Carolina
Alligator File Photo
Florida's soccer 
team was shut out 1-0 against South Carolina on Thursday night in its regular season finale. Now, the Gators will gear up for the SEC T ournament, which begins Monday in Orange Beach, Alabama. UF will have a No. 3 seed.
Troccoli
INSIDE
Gators running back Malik Davis has never stopped pushing. Now, he’s making 
a name for himself as Florida’s top back. Read his story, pg. 2.
ONLINE
Seven of Florida’s nine suspended players took their first step toward 
returning to the field on Thursday. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.
KICK OFF
Editor: Matt Brannon  Photos for Cover Illustration: Grace King
Alligator, Friday, October 27, 2017
Davis is UF’s ﬁ  rst true freshman 
since 2008 to record 100 yards 
and two touchdowns in a game 
(vs. Vanderbilt)Davis averages 84.3 yards per 
game, best of any freshman in 
the SECDavis is averaging 6.8 yards 
per carry this season, fourth-
best in the SEC of players with 
at least 70 carries.by the
Malik Davis
6.8
84.3
 100“I feel like he’s probably 
the smoothest runner. He’s a natural when he gets the ball. He’s a natural. He’s smooth. He has great vision. He sees the hole and he hits 
it hard.”
- Gators linebacker David 
Reese
“He came on quick as a young guy. I mean, he 
runs hard – he don’t even run like he’s 195 half of 
the time – and that’s something you like to see in a small back like him. He’s very explosive.
- Gators cornerback Duke Dawson“Coaches trust him with the ball, they put him in the game, leave him in there to run in big games ... He’s here for a reason. Freshman, senior, doesn’t matter. You step on the ield, 
coaches want you to make plays 
and he’s making plays.”
- Gators receiver Brandon Powell
Reese
Quotable
Dawson
Powell
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Malik Davis squeezed the handoff and 
darted around the right side of the Robinson 
defense. He rocketed down the ﬁ  eld, spray-ing black turf pellets at the trailing defenders with each stomp and hufﬁ  ng air through his 
vampire-toothed mouthpiece. He arrived in the 
end zone 30 yards later, and the game stopped. 
Malik’s mom, Angela, and the rest of his 
family sprinted toward him. Television news crews zoomed in on them and the banner they held. “Congratulations Malik,” it read. “You did it.” His teammates presented him with a commemorative game ball. And his mother surprised him by printing T-Shirts: “Hillsbor-
ough County - leading rusher - Jesuit Tiger - 
Malik Davis - 20 - 5,765 yards and counting.”
She hugged him. “Momma’s so proud of you,” she said 
through tears.
“Momma,” he answered, “stop before you 
make me cry.”
Davis’ team went on to win the game, 56-3. 
But that wasn’t the story when the contest was 
over that night. Davis was. 
“I see no reason why Malik can’t have well 
over 6,000 career rushing yards by the end of 
this season,” Jesuit coach Matt Thompson said at the time. 
Only 6,000? For Malik freakin’ Davis? The 
youth football legend who was now the best runner in county history? Pssh. No sir. Try 7,000. Try 7,025, to be exact. 
Davis’ performances, like the record-break-
ing game, were an attraction back then. He was his team’s offense, and the Tigers didn’t hide it. He routinely surpassed 200 yards rush-ing. His success mimicked that of Florida run-ning backs Matt Jones and Kelvin Taylor, who had trounced Georgia for nearly 400 rushing yards in 2014.
In that game, Georgia was No. 9 and Florida 
was unranked. The Gators were heavy under-dogs, much like they are this Saturday when they’ll play undefeated No. 3 Georgia in Jack-sonville. But UF’s rushing attack overwhelmed the Bulldogs despite the low odds in 2014. And if Florida wants to repeat history and stay alive in the SEC East race, it’ll need Davis to revert to his high school days and do the same this weekend. Thompson believes that’s possible, and he has good reason to. He coached Jones, who now plays for the Indianapolis Colts, as an assistant at Seffner Armwood. 
“Malik was better,” he said. “He was just 
ﬂ  at-out better. And Matt’s in the NFL now, but I’m telling you, Malik is better.”
Why? What makes him better? It starts 
with a popular narrative about the baby-faced, lanky Davis. Running backs coach Ja’Juan Seider said earlier this season that Davis runs like every step is a slap to the face of recruit-ers who doubted him. That’s part of what’s al-lowed him to rise from a freshman who wasn’t 
expected to play to Florida’s leading rusher. 
To a player who could eclipse 1,000 yards as a freshman. But is that the only reason?
Not at all. Yes, Davis is bitter about being left off re-
cruiting radars until late in the process, but that isn’t why he hits open holes and sleds through tackles. He’s always been recognized for his gridiron talent. Even though he felt un-
dervalued by recruiters, he was always known 
locally. He was a legend of the Tampa Bay Youth Football League. No, his drive to suc-ceed is as natural as his ﬁ  eld vision and cutting ability, as obvious as his soft-spoken soul. 
There’s really no explanation for it. There’s 
no origin. As his trainers, his coaches and his parents will tell you, his actions — in and out of football — often can’t be taught. 
That natural ability has allowed him to blos-
som early at Florida despite the relatively low rankings, despite academic and health strug-
gles and despite entering the preseason listed 
ﬁ  fth on the depth chart. Some might call that exceeding expectations. Outsiders who don’t know his background would. But to those who know him best, this is just Malik being Malik, even if the success has come sooner than they expected. This is what he does, and what he’s supposed to do. 
He sets goals and achieves them. When he 
does, he does so in silence. And afterward, it’s onto the next goal. The next game or session or event. The next expectation — often his own — to exceed. “I really never saw him playing sports”
It was sunny that day. Sunny and pleas-
ant. The average temperature was 76 degrees. 
But inside St. Joseph’s Hospital, less than a 
mile from where Malik eventually played high school ball, Angela Davis was struggling. 
Even though he was due in January, Malik 
decided to arrive early that day, Thanksgiving, 1998. He weighed ﬁ  ve pounds — and looked it — before he was ushered away to the Inten-sive Care Unit.His mother couldn’t be with him as much 
as she wanted. There was nowhere to be with him in the ICU. She’d still go home, bathe and come back immediately. She also vented her fears to Malik’s father, who told her not to worry. That everything would be ﬁ  ne. But she couldn’t listen. Doctors assured her he’d 
be ﬁ  ne, but she was still afraid. He was just 
so tiny. 
“At that point,” she said, “I 
really never saw him playing 
sports.”
Malik Davis: Exceeding expectations before they were setWhen Malik went home a week after 
his birth, his situation got better. He gained 
weight. But then it worsened. 
They took him back to the hospital, where 
he was diagnosed with bronchiolitis. It turned 
out to be asthma. 
His asthma forced his parents to monitor 
his diet and activity. Malik loved eating Frosted 
Flakes for breakfast, for example. But the milk aggravated his breathing, his mom said, so his sugar cereal intake had to be restricted. He also couldn’t go outside as much in winter, when the dry air caused ﬂ  are ups. 
None of that stopped him from playing.
Malik was attending his older brother AJ’s 
football practices at 4 years old. Malik was the 
youngest and smallest of seven siblings, so he was always punching up. Especially with AJ, who nowadays is about 6-foot-3, 300 pounds. 
Malik participated in team drills despite not 
being on the team, running onto the ﬁ  eld to stretch his arms and pump his legs just like the real players. After practice, he’d take AJ’s 
way-too-big, sweaty helmet and wear it in the 
car. He’d also mock his brother, telling him he was too slow and, rather than saying he should go on a diet, that he should go “on a diarrhea.”
He was enrolled in football at 7 for the Tam-
pa Bay Youth Football League Jaguars, where he was an instant star. His speed and produc-tion grew his reputation. He dared to dream of one day playing in the NFL. 
But his parents didn’t take that ambition se-
riously. Not at ﬁ  rst. When he reached middle school and was still the best player on the ﬁ  eld most of the time, though, they began to be-lieve. So they enrolled him in athletic training with performance trainer Mouhannad Atfeh. If anyone was going to discover Malik’s poten-tial, it was “Mo.”
Malik arrived for his ﬁ  rst day of training 
during the summer before seventh grade. He wore a white undershirt and gym shorts. Noth-ing ﬂ  ashy. Mo saw him as baby-faced and lanky. At 5-foot-7, he didn’t look like much of an athlete. But Mo still wanted to test him early. He decided to put Malik through an NFL workout, starting with agility drills. 
He was stunned. Malik made a standing box jump of 42 inch-
es, which was on par with high-caliber high school athletes. Every test given seemed to go like that. He passed effortlessly. Then came the next part of the test: conditioning. 
One of the main components was 300-yard 
shuttles, which are running, for example, 30 yards, then running back 30 yards, and so on, until the runner reaches a total of 300 yards. 
They’re sprints, and they were timed. Malik 
was supposed to run three of them, and he had to run them all under a certain time. His natu-ral athleticism couldn’t help him here. 
After two, he collapsed to his knees and 
wheezed. He lied on the ﬂ  oor for his three minutes of rest between each one and looked like death feels. But when those three minutes passed and Mo told him it was time for an-
other, the wheezing stopped. The pain was 
blocked. Malik got up and ran. 
Mo expected him to chug his way through 
that last shuttle, just doing it to ﬁ  nish. In-stead, Malik willed his way to a passing time and earned a fourth shuttle. Then a ﬁ  fth. Mo stopped him there. 
First he was impressed by Malik’s explo-
siveness. Now it was his determination. Both 
let him know Malik was special. But that’s 
not what he remembers most about that ﬁ  rst workout for the kid whose mom thought he’d never play sports. 
“I was almost sure that if it was up to him, 
he wouldn’t come to the next workout,” Mo said. “So what I really remember is that the next day, he came back.”
A run to remember:
All that training was supposed to culminate 
in an illustrious career at Seffner Armwood High, a football powerhouse Malik wanted to attend. Lucky for him, that’s where he was zoned. Unlucky for him, his parents didn’t want him to go there. 
Malik’s mother cared more about her son’s 
education than football.
“My main concern was making sure he 
prepared for life,” she said. She heard about a school called Jesuit from Malik’s youth coach and enrolled him. Jesuit is an all-boys Catholic school where students wear ties, cover tattoos and cut their hair to a speciﬁ  ed length.
“From the beginning,” Angela said, “he 
didn’t wanna be there.”
He complained throughout his freshman 
year. He wasn’t playing much football, being relegated to defense while his cousin, and cur-rent Florida A&M running back Kevin New-man, consumed most of the carries. And for the ﬁ  rst time in his life, his grades tanked, cul-minating with a zero on a Spanish quiz.
“That’s what this place does,” Thompson, 
the coach at Jesuit, said. “It ﬁ  nds those inad-equacies as a student.”
While Malik struggled in the classroom, his 
mom struggled with her decision. Was this too much for him? To transition from middle to high school and from public to private school at once? No, she thought. If he didn’t get it then, he wouldn’t be ready for college. 
Football started to get better at the end of 
his freshman year, when he broke out with 131 yards against arch-rival and the No. 1 class 3A team in the state, Tampa Catholic. He started to like Jesuit a little more. He also started to ﬁ  t in by playing pingpong. At Jesuit, pingpong tables are usually occupied by upperclassmen. “Because of Malik’s competitiveness,” his mom said, “he wasn’t gonna let that happen.” 
So despite, in Angela’s words, “sucking” at 
ﬁ  rst, he eventually got so good that a parent at the school bought him his own paddle. But his grades weren’t improving. 
Thompson noticed Malik struggling and of-
fered to have him checked for a learning dis-ability. He arranged for Malik to be tested in Gainesville to possibly be diagnosed with a dis-ability. Malik refused. 
“Coach,” he told Thompson, “I can do this. 
I’m not dumb.”
He was getting recruited through his 
struggles, with multiple schools telling him he didn’t need all that work. “You don’t need to put yourself through that,” they’d tell him. “Just come play for us.” Even though Malik hated Jesuit at ﬁ  rst, and even though he prob-ably listened to pitches, it was never an option. 
“I think he really believes if he would’ve 
switched schools,” Thompson said, “that would’ve been a failure to him.”
By the time he was a senior, Thompson 
said Malik carried a 3.4 GPA. He improved on the ﬁ  eld, too. Through it all, his mom was on the sideline with blue and white Tiger face-paint for support. So was Mo, who continued to train Malik. Noticeably absent, though, were college recruiters. 
Malik was a star locally, but he didn’t at-
tend many skills camps. The scholarship offers just weren’t happening early. “Stay strong,” Thompson told him some-
times. “Your time is coming.”
“Well it seemed like it wasn’t coming fast 
enough,” his mother said. 
South Florida was his only offer until spring 
of his junior year. He started drowning in of-fers from there. When the ﬂ  ooding subsided, he held over 30. But only one -- Kentucky -- came from an SEC school. He was told he was too small to be an SEC running back. So in the midst of his record-setting senior season, he was set to commit to North Carolina. Then Florida got involved. 
The Gators had just lost a commitment 
from another running back in the class, so area recruiter Chris Rumph and running backs coach Tim Skipper drove down to Jesuit to of-fer Malik in person. His mom wasn’t about it. 
“They’re coming at the last minute?” she 
thought. “Uh-uh.”
But Malik had always wanted to play for 
Florida. He didn’t grow up a big Gators fan, but he did want to go to school there. So the 
offer was big. Still, his mom had to talk with 
God to accept it. 
Since Malik was a child, she’s kept a prayer 
book she made him recite on the way to school. “Lord I thank you that he has a teach-able spirit,” reads one entry. She turned to that faith to try and reconcile what she felt was her son being wronged. That helped. Then she met with Florida’s coaches. 
They said they hadn’t offered Malik because 
they didn’t want to lie to him. They didn’t want to have to pull the offer if they didn’t have space. Now, they had space. “Nothing but respect,” his mom thought. She was sold. 
So was Malik, who committed to Flor-
ida ﬁ  ve days after being offered. He assured Thompson of one thing at the time. 
“I’m not gonna get redshirted,” he told him.
Thompson didn’t believe it. Malik’s mother 
hardly believed it. Not with Florida’s running 
back depth, which she can list off the top of her head. But now that he’s proven himself right, they’re also not surprised. 
“That’s just how he is,” Thompson said. 
“When he sets his mind to something, he gets it done. Whatever it takes.” 
Read the full story online at alligator.org/
sports. 
weekend. Thompson believes that’s possible, 
and he has good reason to. He coached Jones, 
who now plays for the Indianapolis Colts, as 
“Malik was better,” he said. “He was just 
ﬂ  at-out better. And Matt’s in the NFL now, but 
Why? What makes him better? It starts 
with a popular narrative about the baby-faced, 
lanky Davis. Running backs coach Ja’Juan 
Seider said earlier this season that Davis runs 
like every step is a slap to the face of recruit-
ers who doubted him. That’s part of what’s al-
lowed him to rise from a freshman who wasn’t 
expected to play to Florida’s leading rusher. 
To a player who could eclipse 1,000 yards as a 
Yes, Davis is bitter about being left off re-
cruiting radars until late in the process, but 
that isn’t why he hits open holes and sleds 
through tackles. He’s always been recognized 
for his gridiron talent. Even though he felt un-
dervalued by recruiters, he was always known 
locally. He was a legend of the Tampa Bay 
Youth Football League. No, his drive to suc-
ceed is as natural as his ﬁ  eld vision and cutting 
There’s really no explanation for it. There’s 
no origin. As his trainers, his coaches and his 
parents will tell you, his actions — in and out 
That natural ability has allowed him to blos-
som early at Florida despite the relatively low 
rankings, despite academic and health strug-
gles and despite entering the preseason listed 
ﬁ  fth on the depth chart. Some might call that 
exceeding expectations. Outsiders who don’t 
know his background would. But to those who 
know him best, this is just Malik being Malik, 
even if the success has come sooner than they 
expected. This is what he does, and what he’s 
He sets goals and achieves them. When he 
does, he does so in silence. And afterward, it’s 
onto the next goal. The next game or session or 
event. The next expectation — often his own 
“I really never saw him playing sports”
It was sunny that day. Sunny and pleas-
ant. The average temperature was 76 degrees. 
But inside St. Joseph’s Hospital, less than a 
mile from where Malik eventually played high 
school ball, Angela Davis was struggling. 
Even though he was due in January, Malik 
decided to arrive early that day, Thanksgiving, 
1998. He weighed ﬁ  ve pounds — and looked 
it — before he was ushered away to the Inten-
sive Care Unit.
him in the ICU. She’d still go home, bathe 
and come back immediately. She also vented 
her fears to Malik’s father, who told her not 
to worry. That everything would be ﬁ  ne. But 
she couldn’t listen. Doctors assured her he’d 
be ﬁ  ne, but she was still afraid. He was just 
so tiny. 
“At that point,” she said, “I 
really never saw him playing 
sports.”
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Malik Davis’ second career touchdown at UF came at the end of a 39-yard dash against Vanderbilt with less than two minutes left in the fourth quarter. 