We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Soccer game relocated to avoid 
Richard Spencer
UF Athletic Director Scott Stricklin announced the game will be played in Daytona Beach, pg. 14. It’s the great pumpkin contest
Pumpkin carvers compete for $10,000, pg. 5. 
Remembering Tom Petty 
Local tribute band to host concert Friday, pg. 5. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 24
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THEY INCREASED FUNDING 
BY MORE THAN 22 PERCENT.
By Sophie Fineberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers led the state in grant 
funding from the National Institutes of 
Health for 2017. 
This ﬁ  scal year, UF earned $183,910,566 
in NIH grants, wrote Joe Kays, the com-munications director for the Ofﬁ  ce of Re-
search, in an email. This is a 22.45 percent 
increase from 2016.
David Norton, the vice president for 
research at UF, said this achievement il-lustrates UF’s competitive research.
He said this shows the prowess of re-
searchers, their standing in the commu-
nity and the quality of proposals coming 
from UF.
“For us,” he said, “it means we are 
working on relieving problems important and relevant to the state and nation.”
Getting research funding relates to the 
Preeminence Initiative, UF President Kent Fuch’s goal to raise UF’s national recogni-
tion and rank, Norton said.  
David Nelson, a professor of medi-
cine and the assistant vice president for research at UF, said the institute’s grants 
focus on what causes diseases, impacts 
and treatments.
In the last few decades, he said the NIH 
grant process has become more competi-
tive. About one in 10 applications actually 
get funded, he said. 
Though he said UF is successful, he 
said Florida still lags behind other big 
states in receiving money from the NIH and hopes to see the state get more fund-
ing.
Nelson said UF’s ranking as a top-10 
public university parallels the increase in 
NIH funding. 
“Success breeds success,” he said.By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
In a chaotic and emotional Student Senate 
meeting Tuesday, 43 students signed up for 
public debate, asking senators to help cancel 
classes ahead of Richard Spencer’s speech 
and to increase funding for UF’s Counseling & 
Wellness Center.
“Students should not have to fall behind 
their classes if they fear for their safety,” said Shreyas Amol Jethwani, the creator of a move-
ment called #NotOnMyCampus. “Students 
should not be forced to be put in harm’s way.”
In an unofﬁ  cial vote, Sen. Zachariah Chou 
asked for senators to raise their hands if they want class canceled.
As hands shot into the air, some senators 
stared slack-jawed, appearing to wait for lead-ership to restore order, until Senate President Ian Green and Senate President Pro Tempore 
Janae Moodie raised their own hands, eagerly. 
Moodie said in a shaking voice that Spencer had the right to free speech, but not the right to change the students’ moral compasses. 
“I know, and I hear you,” Moodie said, 
crying. “I really do hear you. We’re doing our best.” 
Emotions ran high as students told senators 
how they battled mental illnesses after UF’s lo-cal fee committee rejected a proposed 71.4 cent 
increase per credit hour for the CWC.
As a response to Chou’s letter to the editor 
published in the Alligator on Monday, Haley Smith, a local fee committee member, cried as she said the process is more complex than 
most students understand. 
She said even if the committee voted to 
increase student fees, Gov. Rick Scott would have vetoed the proposal because he based his 
campaign on affordable college for everyone.
Meyers said his administration received  
funding for 12 counselors from UF’s Provost Ofﬁ  ce for the next three years. He asked stu-dents to help him ask UF to reduce overhead 
costs at the center and lobby the state for funds. UF leads state in funding from 
National Institutes of HealthEmotions run high at Senate 
over CWC, Richard Spencer Alligator Staff Report
As Rosana Resende grew up under Bra-
zil’s military dictatorship, she was forced to 
put her head down and abide by the rules, regardless of her own beliefs.
She said she’s reminded of that dicta-
torship now, as avowed white supremacist Richard Spencer arrives at UF on Thursday to speak. 
“Sometimes, I’m tempted to put my head 
down and be like that little girl I once was. But I know I cannot,” Resende said. 
On Thursday at 2:30 p.m., Spencer will 
speak at the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts, located at 3201 Hull Road. Gov. 
Rick Scott declared a state of emergency in 
Alachua County ahead of the event. Security costs, split between UF and other agencies, are estimated to be about $600,000, accord-ing to Alligator archives.
Resende, a professor with the Center for 
Latin American Studies, said she is planning to do something in peaceful solidarity Thurs-day and has chosen to cancel her classes. 
The Center for Latin American Studies, lo-
cated at 319 Grinter Hall, is closed Thursday, she said.
Even before the closure of the center was 
announced, Resende was planning on not coming to campus.
The high cost of security has proven to 
Resende that safety is a concern, she said. 
“Once a university has declared that safe-
ty is a concern by spending that amount of money, I’m not going to subject my students UF prepares for Richard Spencer speaking event Thursday
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
DEMANDING ANSWERS
Chad, a 20-year-old political science and sociology junior who declined to release his last name, holds a megaphone to address 
the crowd and viewers tuning into the protest that “the University of Florida does not care about us (protesters and minorities). ” He also stated they would stay on the steps of Tigert Hall until someone came to speak to them.
SEE SPENCER,  PAGE 3
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
HIGH  81° LOW  64°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s “on-time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 
FAFSA from the federal proces-
sor is Dec. 15. Apply well before 
Dec. 15 to ensure the federal pro-
cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-
sistance with completing your 
FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid ad-viser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Superheroes for Hope fundraiser
To “drown out the noise and drive out the hate,” Blackadder Brewing Company is partnering with nonprofit Superheroes for Hope for a fundraiser to benefit children with serious illnesses. 
The event will be Thursday from 
4 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Blackadder Brewing Company, located at 618 NW 60th St. There’s a sug-gested $10 donation for a wrist-band that includes Blackadder merchandise and $1 off draft beer. All donations will go to-ward Superheroes for Hope. 
Food from Vanarchy Sandwiches 
will also be available. 
GatorNights: World of Color
Celebrate UF’s World of Color with sand art, body paint and a canvas painting class. Take a ride 
on the ballistic swings or express 
yourself at Spoken Word Open Mic night. GatorNights will bring its colors out in the dark with glow sticks and salsa lessons from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. in Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Create your own friendship bracelets or 
take a trip across the globe with 
the Arab Students’ Association through their event Arabian Nights in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. The featured film, “Atomic Blonde,” is showing at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always free 
for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.  Fall Day of Service 
The David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service is holding a Fall Day of Service on Saturday. Join several hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service for a wide 
variety of nonprofits, including 
Keep Alachua County Beautiful, Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more information, call 352-392-1215, email cls@leadershipand-
service.ufl.edu or visit bit.ly/
daysofservice.
Night of Dance
UF HealthStreet, a community engagement program, will host its second Annual Night of Dance on Bo Diddley Community Plaza in downtown Gainesville on 
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
The event will be an evening of live music, dancing, wellness and food trucks. Last year, more than 500 community members attended. This is a free event for all ages. Come learn some new dance moves from live perform-ers, eat local food and learn more 
about your health from the free 
wellness resources. For more in-formation, visit healthstreet.pro-gram.ufl.edu/. 
What I did this summer: Seedy 
AdventuresMeet Melissa DeSa, a self-de-scribed local seed-aholic and 
biodiversity addict. Learn why 
seeds are important for the fu-ture and get a taste of the trav-els and connections that have been made over the last few years. The workshop will be held Monday from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Forage & Working Food, located at 219 NW 10th 
Ave. The workshop is free to the 
public, but donations are always welcome. For more information, visit workingfood.org.
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Pride events UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program is hosting a panel 
called “Queer in the Capital: 
DC Pride 2017 Fieldwork Trip Roundtable,” for students to hold a multimedia presentation on their trip to Washington, D.C., for the Equality March for Unity and Pride. The panel will be Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the second floor atrium 
of Ustler Hall on UF’s campus. 
Slavery and the Humanities in 
the University
Alfred Brophy, a legal scholar from the University of Alabama, will give a free lecture on the re-lationship between pre-Civil War Southern universities and slavery Oct. 26 at 5:30 p.m. The event will be held in the Smathers Library, Room 100. This is the inaugural event for the UF 
Center for the Humanities and 
the Public Sphere’s Animating Conversations program. For more information, visit humani-ties.ufl.edu. 
UF Fulbright information session
UF Fulbright Program is hosting “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” on 
Oct. 26 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. Presentations will be quick and concise. The event will be an opportunity to network with U.S. and in-ternational Fulbright partici-pants. Light refreshments will be served. To register, please 
visit eventbrite.com and search 
by event title. The presenta-tions are: “Determination, Recklessness and Luck: The Feasibility of Improbable Paths” by Sergio Marconi; “Nerve Tissue Engineering” by Syed-Mustafa Jamal; and “How Do Photojournalists Make Such 
Great Pictures?” by Mindy 
McAdams. For more informa-tion, email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsDo you make cool stuff? Gainesville’s largest independent 
craft show is looking for artists 
and crafters who make unique, giftable goods for the upcoming Dec. 3 holiday shopping event at First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St. Apply online by Nov. 1 at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 24
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Richard Spencer will speak at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
on Thursday from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
WHAT’S CLOSED
Florida Museum of Natural History
Harn Museum of Art
Steinmetz Hall 
Southwest Recreation Center
University Village South Fields 
Broward and Graham area pools
Counseling & Wellness Center main 
ofﬁ  ce
The soccer game against Kentucky 
has been moved from Gainesville to Day-
tona Beach. The game will be played at Embry-Riddle’s soccer ﬁ  eld at 5 p.m. in-stead of James G. Pressly Stadium at 6 
p.m. 
WHAT’S OPEN
UF classes will not be canceled.
Walk-in counseling hours in Peabody 
Hall will continue.
Gator 1 Cards will be required at the 
entry of Reid Hall, where the Disability 
Resource Center is located.
The Reitz Union will be open from 
7 a.m. to 7 p.m. On Thursday, entry points will be limited to the North Lawn entrance and the Circle Drive Breeze-way. 
All libraries will be open during regu-
lar hours.
Newell Hall will be open today from 
7 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Thursday from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center will 
be open from 9 a.m. until midnight to-day, Thursday and Friday.
TRANSPORTATION
Portions of Hull Road, Bledsoe Drive 
and Surge Area Drive will be closed.
A portion of Southeast 34th Street, 
between Southwest Second Avenue and Southwest 20th Avenue, will be closed for cars from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Parking garages in front of the Phil-
lips Center and the Hilton Hotel will be closed. Vehicles must be removed by 10 p.m. today. Students with decals can temporarily park in the Flavet Field parking lot and move their vehicles by 6 
p.m. Friday.
Bus routes 117, 118, 119 and 125 will 
not be running the day of the event.Bus routes 20, 21, 28 and 33 will be 
rerouted to Radio Road.
SECURITY MEASURES
All residence halls will need Gator 1 
Card swipe access to enter.
Some prohibited items are not al-
lowed near the Phillips Center, includ-
ing: 
• lighters, matches and torches 
• masks, goggles, bandanas/scarfs
• athletic equipment, other items that could be used as a weapon and mace 
• backpacks, bags, purses, clutch-es and umbrellas
• signs made material other than cloth, paper, foam or cardboard 
• water bottles of any kind
PROTEST
No Nazis at UF is planning a protest 
meeting at Southwest 34th Street and Southwest 20th Avenue to march to the 
Phillips Center. FOLLOW THE STAFF
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld will be inside the Phillips Center.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
David Hoffman will be outside the Phillips Center.
@hoffdavid123
Catie Wegman will be covering Virtual Assembly 
for #TogetherUF Campaign.
@catie_wegman
Jessica Giles will be covering Gainesville breaking 
news.
@jessica_giles_ 
Camille Respess will be covering any protests off 
campus in Gainesville.
@camille_respess
Romy Ellenbogen will be covering protests outside the Phillips Center.
@romyellenbogen
Jimena Tavel will be covering protests outside the 
Phillips Center.
@taveljimena
Visit alligator.org/Spencer for live coverage and 
updates.
Professors, students feel unsafe in wake of Spencer’s visit 
or myself to that,” Resende said.  
After canceling class, she asked her stu-
dents how many would have not attended class anyway. A majority of the class raised their hands, stating safety concerns. 
As a member of UF’s faculty, Resende 
said she’s feeling weighted down because of Spencer’s speech and the effects it’s having on campus. 
“I’m deﬁ  nitely feeling a burden,” she said. 
“I’m trying to ﬁ  nd ways to say things that are true to myself but don’t overstep what people are asking me to do.” 
While Resende acknowledges that some 
UF professors are not canceling class Thurs-day, she does not agree with the professors who say they are unable to cancel for safety concerns. 
“It is a very privileged position to say you 
cannot afford to cancel class,” she said. 
She said a majority of her students are non-
white and may feel less safe than other UF students.
Although Resende knows the importance 
of education for students at UF, she believes some things must come before education in certain situations. Spencer’s speech Thursday represents one of these occasions.
“Students and faculty are people ﬁ  rst, we 
are not robots,” she said.  
Jyoti Parmar, 52, is worried about her 
husband, a UF employee, coming into work Thursday. Parmar declined to give her hus-band’s name.
“When Nazis come to town, they’re not 
coming with peaceful mind,” Parmar said. “They’re not coming just to talk to people. They’re coming to create havoc. They’re com-ing to cause injury and draw attention to their very faulty and their very hateful reasoning.” 
Parmar said despite her husband’s con-
cerns for his safety, he is still going into work at his research lab. 
“He is concerned about things possibly get-
ting very violent or out of control, and he’s 
concerned about access to his work because 
at the very least, it’s a hinderance to him and his students,” Parmar said. 
Liam McGuire, a resident at Lakeside Resi-
dential Complex, is worried about the resi-dence hall being in close proximity to Spen-cer’s event, but said he is not concerned for his safety. However, his mom is asking him to stay inside his room, he said. McGuire, a UF 
management freshman, said UF should cancel 
afternoon classes to keep students on campus safe. 
“The streets may be clogged with all the 
protesters and supporters, but I really don’t have many concerns,” the 19-year-old said. “I think the university is doing a pretty good job with more police and safety.”
After living in Gainesville for two years, 
William Byatt, who now lives in Miami, will drive into town to protest Spencer’s event.
“It feels personal because I lived there,” the 
27-year-old said. “I wouldn’t drive six hours to protest him if he was somewhere else.” 
Byatt said he disapproves of UF and the 
state’s efforts to allow Spencer to speak and the money spent on law enforcement protec-tion. 
Veronica Donoso, 49, is worried about the 
safety of her daughter.
Donoso protested administration Monday 
with No Nazis at UF and said she’s angry at UF’s response to Spencer. Donoso’s oldest daughter goes to UF, and she said she has never seen anything like this happen on cam-pus before.
Donoso’s daughter, 19-year-old UF neuro-
biological sciences sophomore Sophia Eiken-berry, is scared for her safety, especially as a Hispanic woman, Donoso said. 
“She’s afraid of going to class on Thursday 
because she’s a visible minority woman and the hateful speech of Richard Spencer speciﬁ  -cally targets people like her; people like me,” Donoso said. “So, why the university allows this guy to come with his dangerous interac-tions is beyond me. I don’t understand it.”
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said UF 
President Kent Fuchs decided not to cancel classes because the administration doesn’t want Spencer’s messages to deﬁ  ne UF opera-tions that day.
“Even as we’re being moderately inconve-
nienced because of the event, we need to stay true to who we are as an academic institu-tion,” Sikes said.
Although Sikes declined to comment on 
the speciﬁ  c security plans for Thursday, she said University Police is working with other law enforcement agencies, including Florida Highway Patrol and Alachua County Fire Res-cue.
“Our police department is very accustomed 
to working with other agencies — they do it every Saturday for football games,” Sikes said, 
adding that the security plans will be similar 
to those during football season but on a larger scale. 
No Nazis at UF, a coalition made up of stu-
dents and faculty, has criticized the adminis-tration’s response to Spencer.
More than 60 people packed into Dauer 
Hall at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday for the group’s discussion about Spencer’s upcoming visit. 
Four UF lecturers and a faculty member spoke 
about UF’s obligation to students in light of Spencer’s speech. 
At the teach-in, panelist and UF lecturer of 
Hebrew and literature Dror Abend-David in-voked Harry Potter.
“Harry is like us, he’s born after a horrible 
war of genocide and war crimes and horrible things, and no one wants to talk about it,” 
Abend-David said. “They all refuse to believe 
that Voldemort is back.” 
About half of the attendees had to sit on the 
ﬂ  oor or stand in the corner as panelists spoke from the table centered in the meeting room.  
Thomas Auxter, a UF professor of philoso-
phy, started the discussion by explaining why white nationalism is on the rise.“There’s national leadership for this; the 
president of the United States is a white su-premacist,” Auxter said. “Take a look at his 
policies, take a look at what he says about 
who can be in the country.” 
UF history professor Paul Ortiz, an orga-
nizer with No Nazis at UF, said he was disap-pointed in UF and Fuchs. 
Ortiz said Fuchs and the Board of Trust-
ees failed in their obligation to keep UF and the community safe, given the clear threat he feels Spencer and his followers will bring to campus. 
“I’ve had neighbors approach me asking 
if these people in torches are going to march through our neighborhood,” Ortiz said. “The people in the community don’t see this as an exercise of free speech, they see this as an im-
pending riot.”
Joseph Peralta said the teach-in was the 
second No Nazis event he’s attended. He was 
on the Plaza of the Americas when the coali-tion held its press conference Monday and felt reassured by his student community after the Tuesday teach-in. 
Peralta, a 21-year-old UF plant science se-
nior, said he feels administration isn’t doing enough, but he is glad to see students taking initiative and ﬁ  ghting back. 
“Gainesville is a little pocket of blue in a 
sea of red,” Peralta said. “It’s deﬁ  nitely good to see people go out and stand up to what’s happening.” 
For Lee, a 20-year-old UF telecommuni-
cation and sociology senior, who declined to give her last name, Tuesday night was about one thing: solidarity. 
“All these people from all ages, ethnicities, 
backgrounds, genders coming together — 
we’re all deﬁ  ned by the will to stand and do 
something.” Lee said. “We’re all here to stand for each other and by each other.” 
Christina Morales, Jimena Tavel, David 
Hoffman and Camille Respess contributed to 
this report. 
SPENCER,  from pg. 1
•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
“We have three years to ﬁ  ght for 
this money and make it not come 
from students’ pockets,” Meyers said.
Lillian Rozsa, a UF student, told 
senators how she was diagnosed with depression during an intern-
ship last Spring and was lucky to 
get professional help in Tallahas-
see. Recently, she’s felt her men-
tal illness start to return, so she 
requested an appointment at the 
CWC.
But she was told to wait until 
Nov. 3. 
“Today, I’m ﬁ  ne, but I don’t 
know where my demons will be to-
morrow,” she said. “That’s scary.”
Sen. Paulo Bazan (Impact, Engi-
neering) asked students who spoke during public debate to remember 
senators are students, too, and they are also afraid. 
“Everybody here cares and mat-
ters,” Bazan said. “We’re really trying to do our best here, we just 
don’t know how to sometimes.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Carey Minteer hopes to in-
spire a classroom of Egyptian 
students to become scientists. 
Minteer is the ﬁ  rst entomolo-
gist at UF to participate in Sky-pe a Scientist, a program that matches scientists with class-
rooms across the world. Twenty 
other scientists from UF have participated in the program.
“I hope I really get to tell 
them about my job and that be-
ing a scientist is one of the cool-
est things you can do,” Minteer said. 
Minteer will speak with an 
11th grade class in Egypt by late October, she said. The Skype a Scientist program has held about 4,000 Skype sessions this year in more than 40 countries, wrote 
Sarah McAnulty, the founder, in 
an email.
The program shows students 
that scientists are real people 
who go out to bars on the week-
ends, play sports and dress up in Halloween costumes, McAnulty said.“Scientists are rarely the way 
we’re depicted in movies — on 
the whole, we are not cold ge-
niuses, evil masterminds or aloof and lab-coat-wearing,” she said.
McAnulty said the program 
also gives scientists a fresh out-look on how to approach their projects and gives students a role model they can relate to.
Minteer found out about the 
program through Twitter and was interested in the chance to debunk myths about scientists, she said. She is looking forward 
to speaking to the students about 
her passion for science, technol-ogy, engineering and math, or STEM, and her career choice.
Minteer’s 11th grade high 
school teacher Charles Wilson inspired her decision to be a sci-ence researcher. 
“I have always been interest-
ed in science,” she said. “This interest turned into a career I love, thanks to several amazing teachers and mentors. I hope to 
pay that forward by sharing my 
passion for science with today’s youth.”STEM researcher to Skype 
Egyptian classroom
Jimena T avel / Alligator Staff
Students sit in at the Student Government Student Senate meeting 
Tuesday. Although 43 students signed up for public debate, more students ﬁ  lled the chambers to object senators’ silence regarding the lack of funding for UF’s Counseling & Wellness Center and Richard Spencer’s visit to UF on Thursday.
Students and senators argued about 
Richard Spencer, counseling center
SENATE,  from pg. 1WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michelle Belanger wants to win a pumpkin 
carving contest and donate the $10,000 prize 
to build a public, handicapped-accessible play-ground at Southwest Methodist United Church. 
The Great $10,000 Carving Contest is spon-
sored by Pumpkin Patch Fundraisers, which is growing and distributing pumpkins to 1,000 patches nationwide, including at the South-west Methodist United Church. The church’s batch arrived Saturday, and 220 were already sold, said David Williams, the chairman of trustees and the pumpkin patch project leader.
Contestants must purchase pumpkins from 
a participating patch, signiﬁ  ed by a sticker on 
the pumpkin, before Oct. 31. The pumpkins range in cost from $1 to $50 based on size, 
and sales help fundraise for the handicapped-accessible playground.
 “People are willing to spend the extra mon-
ey if they know it’s going to a good cause,” he said.
Belanger and her daughter Katie, 14, are 
carving a wheelchair. Katie has been in a wheelchair all her life and hasn’t been able to enjoy many playgrounds, her mother said. She hopes the new playground will help younger handicapped children. 
“(Katie) hasn’t really had the chance to play 
at playgrounds because the ones around here are not wheelchair-friendly,” Belanger said. “She wants to help ‘pave the way’ for kids younger than her to have a different experi-ence at parks than what she had growing up.”Local church sells pumpkins 
for national carving contest
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Erica Penley found her ﬁ  rst Tom Petty re-
cord in a thrift store when she was 16. 
“It was like a really great treasure ﬁ  nd in a 
thrift store,” the 20-year-old said.
Now, the Santa Fe College education junior 
can’t wait to hear “Free Fallin’,” her favorite 
Petty song, performed live Friday.
Heartwood Soundstage, located at 619 
S. Main St., and CPW Productions will host a Tom Petty tribute at 5 p.m., featuring lo-cal Tom Petty cover band, Heavy Petty, food trucks, a bounce house and a rafﬂ  e, said David Melosh, a Heartwood Soundstage co-owner.
“I think actually having a big group of 
people who have been touched by his music together and giving them time to both mourn and celebrate his life is going to be something really special,” he said. 
Despite high production costs, Melosh 
made the event free.
“Whenever there’s an event, especially a 
tribute like this, it’s really important not to capitalize off of this sort of tragedy,” he said. 
About 1,500 tickets were claimed online 
as of Tuesday. Melosh is considering adding more tickets to the 2,000 tickets he planned on distributing.
Penley already got a ticket for the tribute 
to Petty, who she thinks is a friend more than a rock star.
“I feel like I almost kind of knew him per-
sonally because when people write music they put their heart and soul into it,” she said.Music venue to host Tom 
Petty tribute concertBy Dayaun Waiters
Alligator Contributing Writer
Anyone on Bo Diddley Community Plaza  
on Friday will visit West Africa and Brazil.
Three groups from the UF School of Music’s 
World Ensembles — the Sunshine Steelers, a 
steel drum band; Jacaré Brazil, a singing and 
musical ensemble for Brazilian traditional and 
popular music; and Agbedidi Africa, a West African dance crew — will perform at 8 p.m. as part of Gainesville’s “Free Fridays” concert series.
Denzel Williams, a member of Agbedidi Af-
rica, said the group, which is made up of about 50 students, started practices Monday and Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion.
“Our warm-ups are intense, I’m already 
sweating,” said the 24-year-old UF dance ju-nior.
Williams, a transfer student, said his favor-
ite part of the performance is a circle of expres-
sion, where audience members get on stage 
and dance with the group.
“Seeing the smiles on everyone’s face 
makes me feel like I’ve shared a part of me with them,” he said.
Mohamed Dacosta, a senior lecturer in the 
UF School of Theatre and Dance, directs the dance.
“The students performing are from all over 
the country,” Dacosta said. “They are all differ-
ent majors and perform to have fun.”
Larry Crook, a UF School of Music profes-
sor, will direct the Jacaré Brazil performance. 
He is hopeful the World Ensembles will gain attention from the concert. 
“The Bo Diddley concert helps people learn 
about what we do here at UF,” Crook said. UF cultural groups to perform on Bo Diddley PlazaThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
As we are sure you are all painfully aware, Richard Spen-
cer, a notorious white supremacist, will be coming to our campus to speak Thursday. While writing this editorial, we at the Alligator are feeling a bit conflicted. Should we be giving Spencer attention? Should people speak out in 
protest or ignore the hate? Does Spencer have a right to speak at all? We’ve watched as many newspaper editorial boards de-fended the First Amendment and Spencer’s right to speak. We’ve also heard from countless UF students and faculty members who don’t feel safe on their own campus this Thursday. To those who feel unsafe: We hear you. We struggle to find a world where free speech means it’s OK to encourage others to partake in racism with a violent past, present and future. 
Nonetheless, we believe the First Amendment is important. 
If hate is banned, who decides on which speech is “hateful enough?” Honestly, we don’t know. What we do know is that Spencer’s presence has incited violence, and his ideologies have lead to the death of a protester in Charlottesville, Virginia. This threat hasn’t gone away just because a few months have passed and UF has thrown hundreds of thousands of dollars to security. 
UF has explained that although classes haven’t been canceled, 
students who feel unsafe coming to campus Thursday should contact their professors directly. What we were told is this: “Fac-
ulty are asked to be understanding with students on a case-by-
case basis.” To us, this isn’t enough.
We deserve confirmation that we don’t need to choose be-
tween our education and our safety. We need to know if we feel uncomfortable on campus that day, our grades won’t suffer. We need to know professors who won’t allow us to stay home are going to be reprimanded. We need to know UF cares about us and our safety.
The fact is, all of us value our education. To tell a student 
they have the “option” to skip class is not a valid option. If you stay home because you’re scared for your safety, class is still go-ing on. You could miss something your professor says that will later end up on an exam. You could miss an important question asked by another student you never would have thought of. You could miss information or instructions about upcoming projects and homework that might not be repeated.
Sure, you could email the professor and attend office hours to 
make sure you fully understand the material taught on the day of 
your absence. But why are students being forced to go out of their 
way to ensure they receive their full education as well as remain safe? To us, it’s appalling that UF is forcing students to make this type of decision.
We can understand where UF is coming from on its decision. 
UF is trying to appear strong when faced with an oppressor. It’s trying to show Spencer his visit hasn’t impacted our day-to-day life at UF and we, as a university, aren’t scared of him. It’s a great idea, but only in theory.
Our No. 1 priority should be that students feel safe and valued 
while on campus. By only giving students the “option” to skip class, UF is indirectly providing the majority with a better oppor-tunity. The students who need to stay home aren’t going to be the straight white males whom Spencer wants to build his army out of. The students who are struggling with the decision of whether to miss a day of their education or risk their safety are minori-ties who are already being undervalued, overlooked and shifted when it comes to opportunities.
UF, we expected better from you.UF should have 
canceled classes 
for student safety
Column
By now, everyone has read about the ac-
cusations surrounding Hollywood film 
mogul Harvey Weinstein. His list of ac-
cusers has grown significantly over the last week, as dozens of women have now 
come out and accused him of sexual assault or rape. 
I, like most, happen to believe Weinstein is 
and will be found guilty of some of the accusa-tions. In fact, he even admitted to some wrongdo-ings in a statement released last week. For the 
sake of the facts present, I hope he has his day in court 
where we can separate fact from fiction. 
I have many questions for all parties involved, including 
why Hollywood A-listers like Angelina Jolie and Gwyneth Paltrow only decided to come out against Weinstein when 
it was professionally convenient. They’re established ac-
tresses. What did they fear? That’s not to suggest that their allegations are not true, but stories like these always seem to become victim to the bandwagon mentality. We cannot become a society where every allegation against someone is 
assumed to be true. 
Whether he is guilty of all the accusations against him, 
Weinstein isn’t the biggest player in this story. Hollywood is. 
The industry is now in a public relations crisis, with actors 
and actresses having to distance themselves from Weinstein 
and his behavior. 
The real question is: who knew beforehand? Is it possible 
that some in Hollywood honestly had no idea what was go-ing on behind the scenes? Yes, it’s possible, but is it also 
possible to believe no one knew? Was all of Hollywood truly 
ignorant of his misdeeds? I find it unlikely. Some people had to know. If Weinstein really went around Hollywood assaulting and raping dozens of women, then surely there were at least just as many people who knew. 
This fact alone makes the scandal a symbol of Holly-
wood’s disgusting hypocrisy. 
Too often over the last few years we’ve seen Holly-
wood’s elite lecture America on what is morally acceptable 
and what is not. That’s practically what all award shows are these days anyway — a gathering of wealthy 
celebrities giving themselves awards and virtue 
signaling, all while talking down to the rest of the 
country. 
It turns out Hollywood isn’t so virtuous after 
all. It reminds me of that old idiom, “Do as I say and not as I do.” In other words, Hollywood is 
full of it. 
Take Meryl Streep, for example. At the Golden 
Globes she said, “When the powerful use their 
position to bully others, we all lose.”
She wasn’t talking about her pal Weinstein. She wasn’t 
talking about Roman Polanski either, a man she once cheer-fully applauded at the Oscars even though he wasn’t in at-tendance because he fled the country after he drugged and raped a 13-year-old girl. 
She was talking about President Donald Trump. Now, 
days after the Weinstein story broke, she said Weinstein’s acts were “disgraceful” and an “abuse of power.” Meryl, your outrage seems all too selective and convenient. 
How about Kate Winslet, who has since come out and 
said her way of standing up to Weinstein was by refusing to thank him after she won an Oscar in 2009. Oh. She, too, has praised Polanski and is working on a new movie with Woody Allen, a known creep who married his own step-
daughter and has faced allegations of sexual assault. 
The nation’s resident feminist, former Secretary of State 
Hillary Clinton, claimed she was “appalled” when she heard 
about the allegations surrounding Weinstein, a man she also called a friend. She also added this type of behavior “cannot 
be tolerated.” This is coming from a woman who has toler-
ated that type of behavior for decades. She knows exactly what a sexual assaulter looks like — she’s married to one.
Forgive me if I’m not convinced by Hollywood’s fake 
outrage. Hollywood is morally bankrupt, and it has been 
for some time. We the people can see right through the hy-
pocrisy. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Weinstein scandal shows Hollywood is full of it
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
Nobody wants to see 
their city at the end of a “pray for” hashtag. 
Nobody wants to see 
their home in a hurri-
cane’s projected path. (Almost) nobody wants to see their uni-
versity become a meeting point 
for a white supremacist and his supporters — but Thursday, UF will see exactly that. 
You probably already know that Rich-
ard Spencer, a white supremacist and the president of the National Policy Institute, will be spewing hate from the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, located at 
3201 Hull Road, on Thursday afternoon. 
Roads will be closed, group sessions will be held and hundreds of thousands of dollars for extra security will be paid. Still, a lot of people, especially those who 
are direct targets of his racist and xeno-
phobic messages, are scared. If you’re not scared, you’re lucky. 
While I think, and hope, most of us 
can agree this situation is indescribably horrible, we are a little more contentious when it comes to how we should deal with it. Some of us want to board up our apartment windows, log off Facebook 
and stay as far from campus as possible. 
Some of us want to (peaceably) yell like hell and make our voices heard from right outside. Some of us want to take 
a long weekend and drive home to pet 
our dogs. 
Here’s the thing: All of these options 
are completely valid. We have to remem-ber in the face of this hate in our home, 
we’re the only ones who can decide the 
best way to get through the day. If you want to exercise your right to protest, do it. If you want to exercise your right 
to try to have a normal day and pretend 
this isn’t happening, do it. Unless you’re choosing violence, don’t let anyone tell you your choice is wrong. We should all be careful not to turn against each other, 
and instead, stand strong against the real enemy. 
What you do is up to you, 
but I have to make one small suggestion. Whether you’re 
painting your protest signs or locking your doors Wednesday night, take a second and ask 
yourself how you can make 
Thursday a little better for someone else. Whatever you 
have planned for the day, factor in five minutes to do something kind. 
Paying for someone’s coffee or do-
nating to your friend’s fundraising page won’t make the white supremacist, and whatever comes with him, leave. Giving 
someone a ride home won’t make them 
forget that intolerance has been given a platform at their school. Holding a door won’t erase the fact that someone who believes that immigration is ruining the 
country will be speaking on the exact 
same stage that my Latino dance team recently won a multicultural talent com-petition. 
There’s going to be pain, and it’s go-
ing to be real. But we aren’t powerless. 
On Thursday, we have the power to 
remind each other this school, and this world, has more good in it than bad. We 
can show each other that love outnum-
bers and outshines hate. Maybe you can’t change the world in one day, but you can change how someone sees it, even if only 
for a minute. Acts of kindness won’t fix 
everything, but they’ll each be a small step in the right direction. 
Finally, don’t forget that Friday, Spen-
cer and his supporters will be gone, and 
we will still be here — learning, growing, 
dancing, drinking, procrastinating, mak-ing memes and cheering on our terrible football team. Let’s be kind to each other 
Thursday and remember: We aren’t go-
ing anywhere.
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.Kindness won’t make Thursday go 
away, but it won’t hurt eitherColumn
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgIt seems established in our common knowledge that comedy is tragedy plus time. 
This applies to what hap-
pened in Charlottesville, 
Virginia, as well as what is to come of Richard Spencer’s visit 
to UF on Thursday. The initial 
cancellation of Spencer’s event is not an attack on freedom of speech,but actually championing the matter. 
Our right to freedom of speech does not 
exist in absolute terms. We need a sup-porting environment in order to have the presumption of innocence or freedom of 
assembly, to give just two examples. Of 
course, being able to distinguish between the abuse or the simple exercise of a right is the job of an intellectual. In addition, it is important to see the comedy in the tragic 
behavior of some of the people who share 
the same space with us in order to live in true democracies and not just in represen-tative republics.
Freedom of speech and assembly is one 
of the fundamental rights in nontotalitar-ian societies. There is, however, a catch on that. As the Spanish judge Elpidio José Sil-va said in May, talking about another fun-
damental right as the presumption of inno-
cence, in order to uphold such a right, you need a convenient environment to make it flourish. In other words, we need a proper 
way to prove to our fellow citizens they are 
truly innocent through, for example, a fair court. The same, I consider, applies to free-dom of speech. If we allow certain groups of people to use those rights with trickery, 
or as something you can use against oth-
ers, we are losing what those rights repre-sent; we are escaping from them.
The only way to confront the important 
issue of social survival is through intel-lectuality. As Ibram Kendi, the winner of the 2016 National Book Award, said in his speech during the December 2016 UF grad-uation ceremony, “It is so embarrassing, 
but there are doctorates who are not intel-lectuals. Just like there are M.D.s 
who are not healers.” I connected that moment with one of my fa-
vorite scenes from Spanish cin-
ema: A peasant tells another he has been thinking about becom-ing an intellectual since he has 
nothing to lose. It is true, self-
reflection and the desire of know-ing and changing the world are not a choice, but a duty; a tragic 
duty that slowly becomes a comedy when 
you realize it is the right thing to do.
Comedy is tragedy plus time, but there 
is no general rule about how long we have 
to wait for a good laugh. I like to believe 
the case with the white supremacist is just 
the one we need to finally come out with a good joke. Being intolerant toward the intolerants is a necessary paradox that is not funny anymore. Maybe that is why we 
are losing the battle for our rights, because 
we are taking them too seriously under the form of ridiculous postures of impotence nostalgia within a shell of undeserved priv-
ilege. 
Denying an intolerant spokesman to talk 
about intolerance at an educational institu-
tion, and feeling confused about whether it is good or bad, makes you somebody 
with serious problems to solve in terms of 
defending your rights. We cannot let the tragedies of today engulf us in a never-ending agree-to-disagree moment because, 
at least, this is just a form of laziness; and, 
at worst, it is a collective suicide. See-ing the comedy within tragedy is not an easy job, but it is the only way to at least gather enough courage to keep going. Who 
knows, maybe the next time you confront 
the political views of somebody else you will be able to recognize the difference that sometimes does not exist between a neo-
Nazi skinhead and an average bald guy.
Francesc Morales is a UF doctoral student 
in the Department of Spanish and Portu-
guese Studies. This is a guest column.The only way to confront the issue of 
social survival is through intellectualityColumn
Francesc 
Morales
opinions@alligator.org
Letter to the Editor
I have watched, with intense interest, 
the preparations and conversations that have surrounded the visit by Richard 
Spencer to UF’s campus in Gainesville. 
I have been a part of the conversations 
regarding UF President Kent Fuchs’ deci-sions and a supporter of how UF has placed 
the safety of the campus and Gainesville 
community at the forefront. Fuchs and his team have carefully balanced the ab-solute requirement for student safety with UF’s strong commitment to the freedom of 
speech.
Let me say clearly that as a Jewish person 
I am particularly disturbed by the views of 
Spencer and his organization. In addition, I 
unequivocally denounce hate, bigotry, rac-
ism and violence and those who endorse or embrace it. I also denounce those who call for violence in protest to speech they find offensive and hateful.
Others have said this. What has moti-
vated me to speak out is not what has been said by many, but instead what has been said by too few.
Freedom of speech is central to our de-
mocracy and our society precisely because it protects speech that some (or many) may find offensive or hateful. Thoughts and ut-terances, with which we all agree, do not need constitutional protection.
A recent Wall Street Journal article 
pointed to a study that showed 30 percent of college students believe the First Amend-ment does not apply to hate speech.  Have 
we really failed to teach our young adults 
about the founding principles of our democ-racy?  The United Faculty of Florida adds its voice by condemning Fuchs and UF’s Board of Trustees for “hosting” Spencer.  Allowing constitutionally protected speech does not 
condone its content, it is the centerpiece of 
academic freedom.
Rather than excusing students from class 
or assignments if they feel threatened by 
people espousing viewpoints antithetical 
to our shared values, shouldn’t we require them instead to show up for a class that teaches them why it is so important to stand up for the First Amendment?
Let the maelstrom that surrounds the 
visit of white supremacists to UF’s campus alert us to an undeclared state of emergen-cy: We are failing our students when we 
miss the opportunity to have them do the 
hard work of challenging their feelings with their intellects.  If we aspire to take our place as one of 
America’s best public universities, we must affirm our commitment to providing our 
students and faculty access to the market-
place of ideas — especially when we don’t like what is for sale.  Ultimately, it is our responsibility to teach our future leaders to 
listen critically to ideas with which they do 
not agree, in order for them to come up with better ones.
Jason J. Rosenberg is a plastic and recon-
structive surgeon at the Orthopaedic Insti-
tute in Gainesville. He is a member of the UF 
Board of Trustees and chairs the Educational Policy Committee. The opinions expressed are those of an individual board member and not the entire Board of Trustees.
UF must lead on free speech and stand up for the First Amendment WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
CloZee to perform:
The French producer will hit Gainesville on Sunday 
(pg. 10)Pride Festival: 
The annual event returns to Bo Diddley (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
A local club owner is bringing the energy 
and scare factor of Universal Studios’ Hal-
loween Horror Nights two hours north to 
Gainesville — with a musical spin.
Realm nightclub, located at 233 W. Uni-
versity Ave., will host its fourth annual Ra-dioactive Circus, which includes the Florida Theater on Friday at 9 p.m. The event will 
feature two stages of acts and adjoining scare 
zones in addition to a silent disco after-party only ticket holders have access to.
The night would be remiss without cos-
tume contests, themed drinks and $50,000 worth of production by Realm owner Doug-
las Palmieri, who also owns Gator Sound and 
Lighting, located at 1830 SW Williston Road.
“I came up with the idea four years ago 
when I started throwing parties like this at my house. The theme is very clown-cen-tered, but they’ll be made to look like they’re 
dead and radiated,” Palmieri said. “Also, 
if you see any red balloons around town, that’s me, because I wanted to incorporate 
the movie ‘It’ as well.”
The event’s scare zones will be located 
strategically around the building and made to look like a nuclear wasteland. Palmieri 
and the actors he hired will be playing the roles of the radioactive clowns.
“I’m excited for people to have fun and 
enjoy what I’ve created,” Palmieri said. “Well, scared ﬁ  rst, fun after.”
The two stages, the Florida Theater stage 
and the Realm stage, will host a variety of DJs who will play different genres of music 
simultaneously. The Florida Theater stage will feature dubstep, trap music and hip-
hop while Realm will be home to the house 
genre.
Realm’s headlining performer will be 
Pete Bones, an English producer and DJ whose musical career began when he started 
a band in the late ‘80s after he was expelled from school. It was not until the house mu-
sic revolution swept across the United King-
dom that he traded his drum kit for a pair of turntables.
Since then, Bones has achieved great 
chart success and gathered a worldwide fol-lowing, and one of his favorite places to per-form is Florida, where he owns a home.
“Gainesville was one of the ﬁ  rst places I 
ever played in the United States. There and 
Orlando,” Bones said. “I played at Simon’s, 
and the experience was something I had never experienced in England. It was all the 
things I wanted or expected or hoped for in a 
club all wrapped into one.”
Friday’s performance will be Bones’ ﬁ  rst 
Gainesville performance of this stature in more than a decade, and he believes the un-
derground music scene that once ﬂ  ourished 
in the area is making a comeback.
“There’s plenty of diversity of taste in Gainesville, which I think is good. As I say, 
it takes all sorts to make a crowd,” Bones 
said. “I think people should be exposed to as much different music as possible, and 
Gainesville has had quite a few years of mu-
sic that wasn’t very underground, so maybe it’s time for the cycle to turn and for it to 
become cool again.”
Bones’ attendance Friday is thanks in part 
to Les Voss, owner of Over Easy Creative, a music and event promotion company.
Voss helped Palmieri book the featured 
acts, which include Kyro!, Side Trakd, Net-gate, DJ Luny, Nick Natural, Palmieri’s alias 
Black Cloud, Voss himself and co-headliner Eazybaked.
“Eazybaked is a duo, experimental weird, 
wonky, bass up-and-coming act from Orlan-do. They just started touring nationally with 
ThazDope records,” Voss said. “They’ve 
been part of the Over Easy family for a long time, and the hype is ﬁ  nally catching up to 
the talent.”
Partygoers are encouraged to dress up, as 
there will be a $50 bar tab awarded to the best clown costume and the sexiest costume. 
Drinks inspired by the theme include radio-active shots and a clown brain freeze.
The most unique aspect of the night, 
however, might be the silent disco after-par-ty held in Palmieri’s backyard, an event only 
accessible with a wristband.
Several DJs will be performing music that 
can only be heard in the audience members’ 
headphones, making no sound to disturb the neighbors in the early hours of the morning.
Tickets to the Radioactive Circus event, 
which will grant access to the silent disco, can be purchased at eventbrite.com.Realm to host fourth annual Radioactive Circus Halloween 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Morning Fatty will debut its 
most “conﬁ  dent and polished” 
album to date with their “Dream-life” release show at High Dive on Friday, said bassist and band founder, John Pop.
Bells and Robes, The Orange 
Constant and Xenogenesis will 
open the show. Performances 
will begin at 8 p.m. with doors 
opening at 7 p.m. Tickets can be 
purchased at ticketﬂ  y.com, High Dive and Hear Again Records for $10 in advance and $12 the day of the show.
“Dreamlife” will be Morning 
Fatty’s third album, not counting their 2011 extended play “Face-melt,” and represents signiﬁ  cant 
growth for the band, Pop said. 
Morning Fatty has been known to shift their style from project to project, entering the “Dreamlife” era with a style Pop describes as electronic reggae.
“This is the sound that we 
want to create our legacy on,” 
Pop said.
Pop started Morning Fatty as 
a 10-piece ska band with vocal-
ist Andrew White in high school around 2004. When Pop and White moved to Gainesville for college, they cut down their num-bers and polished their sound, adding guitarist Miller Joyner 
around 2010 and drummer Tim 
Mulberry in 2014. Before joining Morning Fatty, Mulberry toured worldwide as a drummer for The Black Eyed Peas.
“When we were starting out 
it was kind of a ska band, punk band type feel,” Pop said. “We had fun with it, but as you grow, 
your musical tastes change a lit-
tle bit, and you just go with what you have fun playing.”
Friday’s “Dreamlife” show 
will be the ﬁ  rst time any of the new songs will be performed live, along with several new re-mixes and a new light display. The show promises to usher fans 
into the next phase for Morning 
Fatty.
Though they cannot release 
speciﬁ  cs yet, Morning Fatty seems to be gearing up for even more news in the near future.
“I can’t publicly say what’s 
happening because nothing’s in stone yet,” Pop said. “I guess in 
a broad way, we have some good 
deals sparking with some major players in the music industry.”
Thirteen years of playing and 
building a career around music have taught Pop countless les-sons. Working in the music busi-ness means persistence to Pop; keep sending out emails and call-
ing “until you get an answer.”
“Keep trying and trying dif-
ferent ways to make it happen,” 
Pop said. “There’s always a way around it. There’s always a way to make it happen.”
Morning Fatty to celebrate album release at High Dive Courtesy to The Alligator.
Realm, along with the Florida Theater, will host the Halloween-themed party 
on Friday.
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Morning Fatty will perfom new tracks from “Dreamlife” this Friday.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
With so much turmoil in our country 
over the last few months, the fact that hun-
dreds of Gainesville residents will gather 
in a sea of rainbow to celebrate LGBTQ+ 
equality Saturday on Bo Diddley Communi-ty Plaza showcases the community’s efforts to combat hatred.
Jessica Terkovich, a 20-year-old crimi-
nology sophomore, said she attended Gainesville’s Pride Festival last year but wanted to go again to show support for the LGBTQ+ community, especially now when 
many basic rights are in jeopardy.
“In the world that we’re currently living 
in, pride is even more important because it 
shows that the LGBTQ+ community will al-
ways come together to celebrate themselves 
and that no matter what the government or hate groups do, we are not going away,” said Terkovich.
Due to high demand, the Pride Commu-
nity Center made a Facebook post stating they will be closing all four lanes of Univer-sity Avenue for the parade, which will allow for increased participation and safety for all. 
The post was quickly met with comments of 
approval.
Terkovich stresses how important pride 
festivals are for those within the LGBTQ+ community, especially for those who are 
not out yet, to feel less alone. She also urges 
straight allies to come to show support, as listening to the struggles of the LGBTQ+ can make a positive impact overall.
“You should use any position of privilege 
that you have to uplift the voices of others and not speak for them,” Terkovich said. “It’s also important to remember that every LGBTQ+ person’s experiences are differ-
ent, so people should ask their LGBTQ+ 
friends what they could do to help them speciﬁ  cally, but listening and learning are deﬁ  nitely the ﬁ  rst few steps.”
Mark Davis, a 20-year-old computer engineering junior, stressed that although he feels he’s not qualiﬁ  ed to represent the LGBTQ+ community, he intends to attend as an ally.
“I think especially with the bleak legisla-
tive situation and scary comments recently made by our president that it’s important to show that locally we stand up for values of 
inclusion,” Davis said. “It’s especially im-
portant to me, having lots of gay family, but I want a world where everyone feels repre-sented and safe in their own community.”
The free Pride Festival will occur directly after the Pride Parade, which will take place from noon to 1 p.m. Residents can enjoy the afternoon by dancing to dozens of musical acts and visiting more than 100 vendors.
Terkovich said she marched in the pa-
rade last year, and she looks forward to 
watching and cheering from the side with 
her group of friends while wearing an as-sortment of pride shirts and rainbow beads this year. She said due to recent horriﬁ  c events, this year’s Pride Festival is incred-
ibly important.
“I’m excited to see the Gainesville LG-BTQ+ community come together, especial-
ly right after Richard Spencer’s hate-ﬁ  lled rally on Thursday, which I’m sure will include a condemnation of the LGBTQ+ community,” Terkovich said. “Pride will show that so many of us are not afraid and 
that there is nothing they can do to silence 
our voices.”
The Gainesville Pride Festival, co-spon-
sored by the City of Gainesville Department of Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs, 
will be from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. and will in-
clude a “Kids Space.” Annual Pride Festival to take place on Bo Diddley Plaza
Photo by William A. England.
Students from the Pride Student Union march during Gainesville’s 2013 Pride Festival. 
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
By Brooke Steinberg
Avenue Contributing Writer
Gainesville has been featured in Expe-
dia, Inc.’s “The 12 best music towns in the 
nation,” an article published in September. 
While some students find this surprising, 
others think it’s been a long time coming. 
The city was featured for its underground 
punk scene and for the various venues throughout Gainesville.
Chloe Mulliner, an Expedia Viewfinder 
staff writer, found out about Gainesville’s 
music scene through research as well as in-
sight and tips from the team at Expedia.
“Once we uncovered Gainesville’s devo-
tion to live music, we knew we had to put it under the spotlight,” Mulliner wrote in an 
email.
Mulliner and her team were mostly im-
pressed, and surprised, by Gainesville’s 
punk scene.
“We had no idea that there was such a 
thriving punk following in northern Florida, 
so it was fun for us to explore that further 
and see what gets the local crowd on its feet,” she said.
When the Expedia team heard about The 
Fest, an annual music festival in Gainesville, 
they knew the city had that certain some-thing unique and different from other plac-
es, Mulliner said.
When putting towns in the spotlight, 
Mulliner and her team wanted to avoid showcasing places that are excessively talk-
ed about and already known in the music 
industry. Instead, they wanted to discover 
cities from all areas that have their own mu-
sical flair, such as Gainesville, Mulliner said.
Mayra Yaji, a 21-year-old UF advertis-
ing senior, attends concerts in Gainesville at least twice a month and at least once a 
month for bigger artists in cities nearby.
“I’m a little surprised Gainesville made 
this list,” Yaji said. “I do think good music 
comes out of Gainesville, I just don’t think there is enough to get it to one of the top 
spots in the country.”
Gainesville made this list with its under-
ground punk music scene in mind, but Yaji 
thinks Gainesville is missing a lot of variety 
outside of that scene.
“Not a lot of artists come to Gainesville,” 
she said. “Whenever I go to big name con-
certs, I have to go to Orlando or Jackson-
ville, so it surprises me that Expedia was 
willing to give Gainesville that title when not a lot of artists come here.”
About a month ago, High Dive held 
a band showcase which had a pretty de-cent turnout, Yaji said. Three bands from Gainesville performed at the showcase, but 
turnout for these shows are not usually like 
that, Yaji said.
“Sometimes shows are not packed, and it 
does not help that a lot of these shows are on school nights,” Yaji said.
Yaji’s main conclusion about the music 
scene in Gainesville is that there needs to be more variety. 
Yaji personally likes the alternative/pop 
rock genre and feels that Gainesville has a 
lot of that, but there are not enough options 
for people who enjoy listening to other types 
of music.
“It’s very hard for them to find concerts 
that they would like to attend here, so I feel like Gainesville needs to have more of a va-
riety of shows and more venues,” Yaji said.
Yaji thinks if Gainesville was a bigger 
city, more artists, both big and local, would 
be more willing to do concerts in the area.
On the other hand, Matthew Fowler, a 
20-year-old UF economics and English ju-
nior and vice president of the UF record la-
bel Swamp Records, thinks the article makes 
total sense.
“It’s about time that the punk scene in 
Gainesville gets that kind of recognition,” Fowler said. “A lot of people that don’t live here were sort of surprised when I told them the magnitude of the punk scene.”
Fowler has attended concerts at, and 
even performed at, one of the venues men-tioned in the article: Hardback Cafe.
The atmosphere at Hardback Cafe is very 
intimate and is generally a smaller venue 
than others. Having a smaller venue is great 
for local bands and start-ups because if about 40 people come to the show, the band 
feels as though they’re playing a sold-out 
show with a packed room, Fowler said. 
Hardback also has a distinct look with 
moody lighting and spray paint on the walls. 
The venue is already cool looking, making 
further decoration often unnecessary, Fowl-er said.
To Fowler, the best part of the music 
scene in Gainesville is the comradery. 
For example, Fowler has gotten to know 
a lot of the people who work the doors at 
the venues.
“As someone who has been play-
ing in bands since I was 15 and started in 
Gainesville when I first got here, everyone 
was just very friendly,” Fowler said. “Ev-
eryone picks each other up when you fall down. Everyone in the music scene is just 
easy to work with.”Gainesville featured in Expedia’s ‘12 best music towns’By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
High Dive is preparing for 
an evening of electronic music 
with French performer CloZee 
on Sunday. Local acts Les 
Voss and Losa Folk will pro-vide opening support for the show.
CloZee is based out of Tou-
louse, France, but has done shows all over the world in-cluding the U.S., where she performed at Coachella Valley 
Music and Arts Festival and 
recently opened for dubstep artist Bassnectar at his Bass Center X event. 
On Sunday she will visit Gainesville as part of her “Harmony” tour. Under the 
umbrella of electronic music, 
CloZee describes her music as “world bass,” according to her website.
“I feel like she is maybe not 
as well-known as she should be,” opener Losa Folk said. “People need to take advan-tage of this because soon we 
won’t be able to get CloZee 
here, she’ll be so big.”
Losa Folk is the stage name 
for Brady Bauer, a 22-year-old local DJ and UF aerospace en-
gineering fifth-year. 
Bauer said he is drawn to 
the unifying effect music has 
on people. He believes this ef-fect is deeply rooted in human nature, as he quoted Nikola 
Tesla in saying, “If you want 
to find the secrets of the uni-verse, think in terms of ener-gy, frequency and vibration.”
Tickets for CloZee’s stop 
in Gainesville are available at ticketfly.com, High Dive and Hear Again records for $15 in advance of the show and $18 
at the door. Doors open at 9 
p.m. with music starting at 10 p.m.
French producer CloZee to hit Gainesville for the first time
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Sunday’s show will also 
be CloZee’s first time performing in Florida.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com  1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       10-18-17-6-14
Construction Laborers Needed!!Temp. Agency. Daily PayCall 352-505-0503 www.allfloridapersonnel.com       10-18-17-6-14.
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.Family business in Alachua.Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      10-27-17-7-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN 
PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area announces a public meeting 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: October 30, 2017 at 5:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation – 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-
lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67 th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least seven (7) days before the public 
meeting.       10-18-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
COMEDY CLUB Not Needed! Go To:   https://shortstoriesforthetwisted.com/ Enjoy!                                            10-20-4-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Back (out)
4 Go by
10 Peak in Thessaly
14 Can. neighbor15 City on the Liffey16 Performs like
Kanye
17 Eastern seaboard,
facetiously
19 Frantically
20 Out in the open
21 Open in the
garden
22 Narrow opening
25 Unlikely to run
28 Insinuate
31 Kitchen gadgets
brand
32 Sneak attack33 Dryly amusing34 “More info later”:
Abbr.
37 Increase security
twofold ... andwhat 17-, 25-, 46-and 58-Acrossliterally do
41 Radical ’60s gp.
42 Besides43 Scramble, as a
secret message
44 Tile container in
Scrabble
45 Write, as music
46 Secret overseas
cash stash site
52 Japanese noodle53 Leg bone54 Midwestern city
associated with
steaks
57 Additionally
58 What Aladdin
craved andJasmine wantedto escape, in theDisney film
63 Abbr. on a city
limits sign
64 What’s for dinner
65 Speed (up)66 Piece of glass67 Radical in aspirin
and vinegar
68 Spot on a
peacock’s tail
DOWN
1 Taylor Swift’s “__
Song”
2 Trident-shaped
letter
3 “You’re it!” game
4 1999 Ron
Howard satire5 Journalist Clare
Boothe __
6 Multiple choice
choices
7 “Republic”
philosopher
8 Family gal
9 MD treating
canals
10 Postgrad tests11 South Pacific
island nation
12 “Blazing
Saddles,” forone
13 “Shoot!”
18 Après-ski
amenities
21 Dude
22 Herring prized for
its roe
23 Long rides?
24 Preparing to
flower
26 Handed-down
tales
27 Gas in a tank
29 Syst. with hand
signals
30 What a treater
picks up
33 “Says __?”34 Touch-related35 In __ daylight36 Supplement38 Garment worn in
HBO’s “Rome”
39 108-card game
40 Not hidden
44 Merit badge org.
46 Expensive47 “My Ántonia”
novelist Cather
48 “Hedda Gabler”
playwright
49 It won’t hold water50 Nick of “Hotel
Rwanda”51 Chain with a
Smart Sense
store brand
55 __-deucey
56 Scoundrel58 Stew 
vegetable
59 Mandela’s org.60 15-Across locale:
Abbr.
61 2000s “SNL”
notable Tina
62 Wrapping time
By Robin Stears©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/18/1710/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Floors
11 Beliefs
15 Offer a libation
(for)
16 Polar explorer’s
concern
17 President leaving
office, perhaps
18 Commercial
name abbr.
19 Redden, say20 William Tell
Monument city
22 Venus is in it:
Abbr.
23 “S” on an
invitation
24 Vehicle-sharing
company
26 “Born on the
Bayou” band,briefly
27 __ bar30 It’s tuned an
octave higherthan a cello
31 1988 noir remake32 Unconcealed
enmity
34 Samoa or
Caramel deLite
36 Certain baron37 King’s value, at
times
38 Gather39 Sch. period40 Backwoods
preposition
41 Combined43 King or queen44 Chinese military
gp.
45 Grew49 Pipe in a song
52 Pen name that
sounds like a
drink
54 Cry at the craps
table
56 U.S. dept. with a
bolt on its seal
57 Experience for
Marty McFly
58 Classroom fixture59 Unable to
continue
DOWN
1 Did2 Pioneer in
portable music3 Arrogant manner,
slangily
4 Top medalla
5 “You peeked!”6 Totally7 Heaven-__8 Helped make a
bed
9 Mark’s
replacement
10 Premium movie
channel thatdropped its “!” in
2005
11 “Portlandia” airer
12 Pot without speed13 Serious
transgression, inCatholicism
14 Split
21 Coppers
23 Burned with
steam
25 Led26 Sometime
substitute for
bread crumbs
27 Some sweaters
28 Get by29 Venerated symbol31 Martha Kent
portrayer in recent
Superman films32 Barracks VIP
33 Betamax player34 Barely caught35 Mole-like
mammal
40 Hat for Indiana
Jones
42 Decrees43 2017 Dolly
portrayer onBroadway
46 “Finish the job!”47 “Handsome,
clever, and rich”Austen character
48 Food or water49 Finally give50 Tournament
format
51 Likely to skid53 Get to55 Enhance, as a
résumé
By Jim Quinlan©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/14/1710/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
 1.  World ____
1.  Casual shoe5.  Wanderer 
2.  Storm, violence 6.  Stadium
3.  Ongoing7.  Justification 
4.  Twist, strainIRSEES
LANSDAMANDO
EAARN
AAMRGPE
DNESLSEONESRA
PNASIRANSWERS: 1A-Series  5A-Nomad  6A-Arena  7A-Reason
1D-Sandal  2D-Rampage  3D-Endless  4D-Sprain  B-Diana Ross10-18-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was born in Detroit, 
Michigan, on March 26,1944.
BONUS
19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Florida junior Kevarrius Hayes 
is tasked with leading UF's front court in the absence of last year's starter, John Egbunu. Read the story, pg. 15. Gators defensive lineman is recruiting on Twitter
Four-star offensive line recruit Richard Gouraige narrowed his college 
choice down to Clemson and Florida this week. On Tuesday, he posted a picture with the caption "Love Seeing My Mom Smile. " UF defensive lineman Zachary Carter replied: "She would really smile if you became a Gator. "Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
     It’s tough to go into a bye week on a 
loss. That’s what coach Jim McElwain said after UF dropped its second straight home 
game to the Aggies, 19-17, on Saturday. 
McElwain has a lot on his mind over 
the next 10 days before the Gators travel to 
Jacksonville to play No. 3 Georgia. So I'm 
going to do him a solid and be his video 
coordinator for the week. After rewatching Florida's last game, I catalogued 25 mistakes, missteps or blunders that weighed down the UF offense against the Aggies. Some of these 
mistakes are excusable as they were a result 
of poor execution. But as the game went on, it was evident that UF had several costly mental errors.
First quarter: 12:51 — Tight end C’yontai Lewis draws a false start penalty on UF’s third offensive play to turn a second-and-2 into a second-and-7. 
11:30 — Quarterback Feleipe 
Franks has Dre Massey open deep over the middle. Massey trips and Franks overthrows him anyway. 
9:20 — On second-and-10, 
Franks throws to running back Malik Davis who is behind the line of scrimmage, picking up 2 yards and setting up a long third 
down. 
9:00 — Florida is penalized for having 12 
men on the field, turning a third-and-8 into 
a third-and-13. 
8:34 — Franks’ third-down pass is caught 
behind the line of scrimmage, relying on Brandon Powell to pick up 13 yards. He gets 8. Florida settles for a field goal. 
6:05 — On first-and-10, Franks 
scrambles out of bounds for a 4-yard loss instead of throwing the ball away and taking the in-completion. 
4:55 — On third-and-9, Franks 
has time and has Powell wide open on the left side of the field for a would-be touchdown, but instead looks right and throws an 
incomplete pass at receiver Josh Hammond’s feet. 
2:00 — UF calls three straight run plays 
and is forced to punt on fourth-and-1 after a 
three-and-out.
Second quarter: 12:25 — Franks rolls to the right and throws an interception into 
the end zone intended for double-covered re-ceiver Freddie Swain. Franks had a tight end 
streaking down the left side of the field for 
a would-be touchdown but doesn’t see him since he already ran to the right. 
11:05 — On third-and-3, Franks throws 
to tight end DeAndre Goolsby who is behind the line of scrimmage. Goolsby is tackled for no gain, bringing up fourth down. 
8:25 — Florida’s offensive line lets an Ag-
gies defender into the backfield right away. 
Franks takes a sack. 
7:45 — UF calls a run up the middle on 
second-and-12 for no gain. 
7:20 — On third-and-12, Franks leaves 
the pocket right away, rolls right and has a 
Bye-week rewind: 25 things that made me cringe in UF’s loss to Texas A&MSOCCER
FLORIDA WILL PLAY
AGAINST KENTUCKY AT
EMBRY-RIDDLE UNIVERSITY 
ON THURSDAY AT 5 P .M.
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Thursday’s game against Ken-
tucky (7-10, 2-5 SEC), previously 
scheduled to be played at James G. 
Pressly Stadium at 6 p.m., has been 
moved as a result of the expected turnout of both supporters and protesters at the Richard Spencer 
speaking engagement. The match 
will now be played in Daytona Beach at Embry-Riddle University's  soccer field at 5 p.m. Florida Ath-letic Director Scott Stricklin said he 
appreciated all parties involved for 
understanding.
“I’d like to thank Embry-Riddle 
Athletics Director John Phillips for agreeing to accommodate the teams and this match,” Stricklin said in a 
release. “This is an unusual request 
and we are grateful that Embry-Rid-dle is welcoming this event to their campus.”
Spencer is scheduled to speak at 
the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts on Thursday afternoon from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. Parts of Hull Road and Bledsoe Drive, as well as Southwest 34th Street between 
Southwest 2nd Avenue and South-west 20th Avenue, will be closed 
off to traffic between 10 a.m. and 9 p.m. 
The team itself is focused on 
bouncing back against Kentucky. When the No. 10 Gators (11-4, 
5-2 SEC) lost to Auburn (7-4-3, 4-1-2 SEC) on Sunday, coach Becky Bur-leigh said the match was “frustrat-
ing.”Burleigh wasn’t angry with a 
lack of physical play or effort on her team’s part. In fact, she said her UF moves game to Daytona Beach to avoid Spencer event 
Alligator File Photo
Coach Becky Burleigh and the Gators were initially scheduled to play the Wildcats at 6 p.m. Thursday at James G. Pressly Stadium. However, 
the game has been relocated because of expected turnout for white nationalist Richard Spencer's speech on UF's campus at 2:30 p.m.
Matt’s What She Said / Opinion
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16“This is an unusual request 
and we are grateful that 
Embry-Riddle is welcoming 
this event to their campus.”
Scott Stricklin
UF Athletic DirectorWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
MEN’S BASKETBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK TENNISBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
When redshirt senior John Egbunu tore his 
ACL in Florida’s 114-95 win at Auburn last 
season, Florida men’s basketball coach Mike 
White turned to Kevarrius Hayes to keep the 
front court afloat.
In his new-found starting role, Hayes ex-
celled, averaging 25.9 minutes and 6.2 re-
bounds over UF’s last 10 games. Before Eg-
bunu’s injury, Hayes averaged 3.8 rebounds 
a game. 
Going into this season, Hayes is still in that 
same position: manning Florida’s front court.
With Egbunu and freshman Isaiah Stokes 
recovering from ACL tears and sophomore Gorjok Gak dealing with a lingering knee in-jury, Hayes will be called upon yet again to protect the rim.
“We’re really banged up there with three 
bigs out in Stokes, Gak and Egbunu,” White said. “We’re really thin up front.”
Hayes won’t be alone, however. White 
said sophomore Keith Stone and freshman 
Chase Johnson have been playing well and 
will be looked upon to help fill front-court 
roles alongside redshirt freshman Dontay Bas-sett.
White acknowledged that while there 
are players ready to step up, some of them 
haven’t seen in-game action since coming to 
UF. Other than Hayes, the Gators front court is lacking experience.“The five in terms of experience, after Kev-
arrius, who’s doing what he does … you’re re-
lying on Dontay Bassett, who hadn’t played a 
minute yet of college basketball,” White said.
While this inexperience could be a prob-
lem early on, it allows Bassett to develop in 
time for conference play.
That’s part of the reason why White is OK 
with Gak taking an extended period of time 
to recover from his knee injury. The Gators know they will need him more toward the end of the season, and it’s better to keep him rest-ed and fully healed than risk another injury.
“It’s more of a bigger scope type deal just 
knowing how long the season is,” White said. “I think that if we were playing in the SEC Tournament next week, he’d be playing.”
But for Hayes, he’s up to the challenge of a 
smaller, younger unit. 
He’s ready to step into that larger role and 
continue building upon the progress he start-ed last season. 
When asked about how other players’ in-
juries have impacted him in practice, Hayes said it was a lot more conditioning with less time for breaks. 
“It’s a little more demanding probably for 
me and Dontay, we don’t get much rest,” Hayes said. “It’s a lot of running, we’re defi-nitely going to be the first one’s in shape out here.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHayes tasked with leading a ‘thin’ Florida front court
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Kevarrius Hayes will play a big role in Florida’s front court this fall with interior players John Egbunu, Isaiah Stokes and Gorjok Gak recovering from injuries. 
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Just two weeks into his team’s practice 
schedule, women’s basketball coach Camer-
on Newbauer is still unsure of where exactly 
his players will be on the court, let alone who the starters will be. 
Newbauer said if he had to guess, he 
would choose a starting lineup of guards 
Funda Nakkasoglu, Paulina Hersler, Dyan-
dria Anderson and Delicia Washington, along with forward Haley Lorenzen. He admitted, however, that that lineup is mostly built on the experience each player brings to the 
court.
Newbauer said the abundance of guards is 
a point of interest on his team. 
“We’ll probably have different people be 
the point guard at different times,” Newbauer 
said. “That’s one thing we’re trying to create is more versatility within our offense.”
Newbauer a tough critic through two 
weeks of practice:
Newbauer said he loves to work on fun-
damentals.
During last Monday’s practice, Newbauer 
had his team running drills on how to beat full-court presses. Before that, it was three-on-two breakaways. Most of those break-aways ended with long-range jumpers, keep-
ing up with Newbauer’s mantra of “chuck it 
from the cheap seats.”
During last week’s full-court press drills, 
Newbauer repeatedly stopped what everyone was doing to explain the intricacies of pass-
ing lanes, player movement and ball-handler responsibilities.
He accepted questions from players, an-
swering in full detail — complete with panto-
miming — the different outcomes of his strat-egies. When he saw a mistake, he whistled 
everyone back to the starting point.
“Still an adventure right now in the ear-
ly stages of the 2017-18 season,” Newbauer 
said.
As for assessing his team’s progress 
through two weeks’ worth of practice, New-bauer said he’s a tough critic.
“I’m always pretty negative about things,” 
Newbauer said. “Pleased one minute, not the next…. But in terms of the overall atti-tude and effort, I’m definitely impressed with that.”
Shooting guard Delicia Washington im-
pressing her coach:
Speaking on attitude, Newbauer said he’s 
been pleased with Washington’s. He said in the six months he’s been head coach, Wash-
ington has matured more than he has seen 
any player between years. The sophomore is coming off a minor surgery in the offseason which temporarily held her off the practice floor. Newbauer praised the guard from Mac-
clenny for her work away from the physical 
side of the sport.
“There was even some time where we 
watched film instead of working out to use our hours, and she embraced that,” Newbau-
er said. “She really tried to be a student of 
the game this summer, and I really think that helped her mature off the court.”
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
It was a successful day for men’s 
tennis as they claimed the consolation 
singles title in Atlanta at the ITA Re-gional Championships tournament.
Freshman Andy Andrade claimed 
the title for the Gators on Tuesday against Jose Gracia of Florida State in a three-set match, 2-6, 6-3, 6-3.
Andrade had a successful run in At-
lanta, finishing his singles play with five consolation wins after an initial loss to Sahil Deshmukh of North Flori-da in the first round of the main draw.
“Andy really improved throughout 
this tournament and once he fully be-lieves in himself, watch out,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release.
Doubles play continued for the 
Gators into the finals round, where the duo of senior Chase Perez-Blanco and freshman Oliver Crawford won 
its semifinals match by default against 
Linus Bergevi and Colter DeCoste of 
Stetson.
Perez-Blanco and Crawford went 
on to play against No.1-ranked Robert Loeb and Jan Zielinski of Georgia for the title, a pair which had beaten UF junior McClain Kessler and Andrade in the semifinals round, 6-3, 7-6(5).
Loeb and Zielinski took the doubles 
title in a two-set match (6-4, 6-2), claiming their spot at the Oracle ITA National Fall Championships in Cali-fornia.
“In doubles, we ran into a very good 
pair today that got better all day,” Shel-ton said.  “We are doing a lot of things right with our doubles but there are some things we can do better. We will 
get home and hit the practice courts 
and put to work the things we learned.”
Up next for the Gators men’s tennis 
team is a series of tournaments starting Nov. 1. Qualifying Gators will travel to Indian Wells, California, for the Oracle Fall Championships.
The Gators will also compete in the 
ITF Futures tournament in Birming-
ham, Alabama, and Dick Vitale Invita-
tional in Lakewood Ranch.
 Women’s Pro Circuit Update:After a day of canceled matches 
because of a series of rain storms in Florence, South Carolina, senior Josie Kuhlman resumed play in her singles 
qualifying match Tuesday morning at 
the Florence Open.  
The Ponte Vedra native lost to Chloe 
Beck of the United States in a tough three-setter in the second round of tournament play.
Kuhlman will not be traveling with 
the team on Thursday as they head to Atlanta for the ITA Regional Champi-onships tournament. 
 @faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators begin to sort out roster Andrade claims consolation 
singles title at ITA Regionals16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2017
squad played well. 
Despite getting shut out in the 
previous two games, coach Becky 
Burleigh said she sees no reason to 
panic just yet. 
“The mood of the team has been 
good,” Burleigh said. “Obviously, 
we’re not excited with either result, but sometimes soccer’s a funny 
game.”
Back on the practice ﬁ  eld Tues-
day, the Gators were missing a stalwart on their back line. Kristen 
Cardano, who was averaging 86.4 
minutes played per game, is out for the rest of the year with a left ACL injury. Burleigh said the loss was 
tough, but that her players were ad-
justing to Cardano’s absence.“I thought Parker (Roberts) did 
a good job,” Burleigh said. “It’s just going to be one of those things you move forward with, and it’s an op-portunity for other people.”
One strategy Burleigh said 
would help with the transition was increased communication among her players. She said that a lack of 
talking to each other was a key les-
son to be learned from the Auburn matchup. 
Roberts, who played all 90 min-
utes on the back line against Au-burn as opposed to her usual spot at midﬁ  eld, echoed what Burleigh 
preached about ﬁ  nishing chances 
near the net.
“I think that we have a lot of 
motivation right now to bounce 
back because we played really well 
against Auburn,” Roberts said. “Becky made a good point. She said, ‘These losses don’t deﬁ  ne us.'”
Florida has three matches left 
on its SEC schedule, including two against top-three SEC programs in 
Tennessee and South Carolina, be-
fore beginning play in the SEC Tour-nament on Oct. 30. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
SOCCER,  from pg. 14Florida's game vs. Kentucky moved to Embry-Riddle Universitypass deﬂ  ected to center T.J. McCoy, bringing up fourth down. 
2:39 — On third-and-1, Franks scrambles 
to the right and is sacked when he had two receivers open in front of him. Franks also could’ve dove for the ﬁ  rst down, but he hesi-tated while looking at receivers. 
0:16 — UF doesn’t call a timeout after a 
long run sets the offense up at the Aggies 46-yard line. 
0:10 — Franks has an open receiver over 
the middle but throws to the right for an in-
completion.
0:06 — Florida can either throw a deep 
ball to the end zone or throw a quick sideline 
pass to pick up yards for a ﬁ  eld goal. Franks 
does neither and lobs a ball 20 yards down-
ﬁ  eld for an incompletion and time expires in the second quarter.
Third quarter: 13:50 — On third-and-6, 
Franks throws to the left and the ball is 
caught behind the ﬁ  rst-down marker to 
bring up fourth down. Franks never saw his tight end open on the right side of the ﬁ  eld. 
10:05 — Franks has Hammond open for a 
would-be touchdown, but waits too long and underthrows the ball. A defender catches up and breaks up the pass. 
8:20 — On second-and-8, Franks has a man open on a slant pass but offensive line-man Fred Johnson lets a defender beat him right away and Franks is sacked. 
7:20 — On third-and-14, Franks throws 
a pass that’s caught just beyond the line of scrimmage, and UF is 9 yards short of the ﬁ  rst down. 
4:14 — On ﬁ  rst-and-10, Franks immedi-
ately rolls to the right, even though there is little pressure. An Aggies defensive end fol-lows Franks to the right and sacks him. 
3:39 — On second-and-13, Franks throws 
an inaccurate pass into heavy coverage. 
Fourth quarter: 11:10 — On third-and-6, 
Franks moves around the pocket for ﬁ  ve sec-onds and is sacked before he’s able to hit one of two open receivers on crossing routes. 
5:30 — On third-and-1, UF calls a pitch 
play to the weak side where Davis is con-strained by the sideline and is tackled for no gain, bringing up fourth down. 
0:58 — On ﬁ  rst-and-10, Franks stares 
down his tight end and is intercepted by an Aggies linebacker, effectively ending the game. Even if the linebacker wasn’t there, the pass was low and behind the intended 
receiver. 
Matt Brannon is the Alligator’s sports 
editor. You can follow him on Twitter @
MattB_727 or contact him at mbrannon@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Bye-week blues: a catalogue of UF's ofensive missteps vs. A&M
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks (13) has thrown three interceptions this season. Two of them came on Saturday in a 19-17 loss to T exas A&M in The Swamp. 
