We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 13 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators play at Kentucky on 
Saturday night
Florida is looking to continue a 30-year 
streak over the Wildcats. Read the story, pg 14.Donations for Sunﬂ  ower
A UF student is raising money for the sick dog, pg 8. 
More parking restrictions  
Students asked to move cars for home football games, pg 8.Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
SAYING THANK YOU
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe takes a selﬁ  e with city workers in front of Gainesville City 
Hall, located at 200 E. University Ave., on Thursday. Poe and city commissioners gave ﬂ  owers to thank workers for helping after Hurricane Irma. Read the story on pg. 9.
THE STUDENTS HAVE HAD 
DIFFICULTY CONTACTING 
FRIENDS, FAMIL Y.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Anxious for a phone call and 
worried about the unknown, 
Puerto Rican UF students are still 
waiting to hear from their fami-lies affected by Hurricane Maria. 
The eye of Hurricane Maria came near Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, at about 6:15 a.m. Wednesday as 
a Category 4 storm with maxi-
mum sustained winds at 155 mph, according to the Weather 
Channel. One hundred percent of 
the island is without power.
Even as the members of UF’s 
Unión de Estudiantes Puertor-riqueños Activos worry about their own families, they have be-
gun to raise money and donations 
to help their homeland.  “We can see from the little in-
formation that we have that it hit 
Puerto Rico pretty hard,” Gabriel 
Zayas said. “Puerto Rico, even before the hurricane, wasn’t the 
best place to live, but now with 
the hurricane, it destroyed Puerto Rico.”
Zayas, a 20-year-old UF ani-
mal sciences junior, was raised in Puerto Rico and moved to the 
U.S. mainland three years ago. All 
of his immediate family is still on the island. 
As the Hurricane crept closer, 
Zayas’ family wasn’t worried. As the trees blew and the rain poured down at 3 a.m., they got nervous. 
Zayas’ brother sent him a text. 
“It’s actually really bad right 
now, like it’s raining really hard and there’s a lot of wind,” his 
brother wrote.
Due to the power loss, Zayas 
has still not heard from his fam-ily.Stephanie Beltran, a UF ac-
counting freshman, wasn’t able to 
give her mom a call on her mom’s 
birthday Wednesday when the hurricane hit. 
“I couldn’t sleep that night, 
and I was worried like all day (Wednesday) and calling every-
one and trying to ﬁ  nd out what 
happened and nobody answered,” the 17-year-old said. 
Her dad, who also lives in Puerto Rican UF students anxious after Hurricane Maria
SEE MARIA,  PAGE 4SEE FORUM,  PAGE 4SEE ADDICTION,  PAGE 4
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
In hopes of getting voters to meet their 
candidates, Inspire Party will hold a pub-
lic forum Monday, one day before Student Government Fall elections begin.
SG Fall elections will take place Tuesday 
and Wednesday to ﬁ  ll 50 seats in the Stu-dent Senate based on residential areas. Two political parties and two independent can-didates registered, with 43 of the 50 seats contested. This is the ﬁ  rst time SG elections have been this contested since Fall 2015, when Access Party and Impact Party went head-to-head over 47 seats, according to Al-ligator archives.
In an email sent at about 10 p.m. 
Wednesday night, Inspire Party President Ben Lima invited both independent candi-dates — Adrian O’Sullivan, who’s running for Yulee Area, and Trevison Clark, who’s running for Murphree Area — and Impact Party President Ben Auyang to participate in a public forum. 
The email said the forum will be moder-
ated by TJ Pyche, the outreach and student programs coordinator at the UF Bob Graham 
Center for Public Service. 
“A public discussion on the issues fac-
ing campus is the ideal way to show mutual 
respect and showcase the solutions we each plan to offer,” Lima wrote in the email. 
By noon Thursday, both Clark and 
O’Sullivan said they would participate, Lima said. As of press time, Lima said he hadn’t received an answer from Auyang regarding 
Impact Party’s attendance.
“I hope Impact agrees with the notion 
that voters need to hear from all different 
parties and candidates involved in the elec-tion,” Lima said.
One of Impact Party’s campaign manag-
ers, Kylie Werk, said her party hadn’t re-sponded to Inspire’s request as of Thursday By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For Clay County resident Kelli Crews, it 
all began on Florida State Road 21.
Five years ago, Crews’ son Clayton, then 
6 years old, wanted something to drink as 
they rode down the street in their 2001 Nis-san Pinta.
As Crews, 32, was about to turn across 
the intersection and pull into the Smoker’s Express station for a beverage, she was rear-
ended by a woman in her 40s texting and 
driving in a black SUV, she said.
The accident caused two herniated discs for Crews, one in her upper back and one on the left side of her neck. 
It was the ﬁ  rst step toward her addiction. 
Although ofﬁ  cials say opioid use has not in-creased in Alachua County as it has in other parts of the country, drugs still affect hun-dreds of people in the area, controlling every 
aspect of their lives.  
At ﬁ  rst, Crews was on fentanyl patches 
and trigger shots for the pain, she said. After 
her insurance stopped picking up the bill for her treatment, Crews’ doctor switched her to opioid painkiller Percocet.
What started as addressing her physical 
pain quickly turned into an addiction to the pill, she said.
“It numbed the feelings. It gave me en-
ergy, helped my depression,” Crews said. “It was like a mood-stabilizer all-in-one.”
Her body developed an immunity to the 
effects, and she found herself taking not two or three pills a day, but ﬁ  ve or six.
In October of 2015, Crews dropped off 
Clayton with his grandmother Alice, 76, in Keystone Heights, Florida, and checked into Meridian Behavioral Healthcare in 
Gainesville for 90 days of detox. She started 
taking doses of Suboxone to stop the opioid craving.
Up until the summer of 2016, things were steady for Crews and Clayton. Crews moved to Kentucky to start a new life with her boy-
friend.
In August, Crews’ brother, Scott, died in 
a car accident when his Ford Explorer mal-
functioned and he lost control.
In September, she and her boyfriend 
broke up, and she moved back to Florida. Crews saw opioids as a solution when the stress of her brother dying and her broken relationship became too much.
“As soon as I got back to Florida, it was 
like the cycle started all over again,” she said. “I literally took a pill right after I got 
Inspire Party, independent 
candidates to hold forum ‘I look forward’: Residents battle with substances, recovery 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  88° LOW  71°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 13
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Free Fridays concert series: Wild 
Blue Yonder 
Wild Blue Yonder, a classic rock band, will play today from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Bo Diddley 
Community Plaza, located at 
111 E. University Ave., as part of the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department’s “Free Fridays” 
concert series. Concerts occur 
every Friday until Oct. 20. 
GatorNights: Broadway, New 
York City
Today, GatorNights is taking you to the city that never sleeps with GatorNights: Broadway New York City, in the Reitz Union. Comedy and music 
duo Dakaboom will perform Broadway show tunes and an 
a capella set in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. The featured movie of the night is “Despicable Me 3,” premiering at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF 
students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: 
In an article titled “UF School of Theatre and Dance to pres-ent ‘The Seagull,’” published Wednesday, the show will be held at the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion's Black Box Theatre. The Alligator reported differently. 
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we believe in 
providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous 
compensation, and our District Manager position epitomizes this philosophy.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80K
Year 2 - $90K 
Year 3 - $95K 
Year 4 - $100K Year 5 - $110KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer 
 
Advancement
Friday
The highest incidence of crashes in Alachua County 
occur on Fridays, around the Five O’clock rush hour.
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedAvoid distractions, slow down; 
keep your eyes off your phone 
and on the road...Stay 
   Safe!Rush 
Hour
Ride  Smarter! 
BIKE EDUCATION IN GAINESVILLE
Ride your bike safely, confidently, and legally.
The Gainesville Cycling Club has an educational program to 
promote best practices of street cycling. We offer workshops to help teens and adults improve their cycling skills as well as outreach presentations to inform participants about the rights and responsibilities of motorists and cyclists sharing the road. For more info  on the program, contact Stephen Perz, GCC Bicycle Ed. Director at Stephen_perz@yahoo.com  
or visit the GCC website at www. gccfla.org .
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedSIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
IT HAS 264 BONES, 
FIVE OF WHICH ARE 
ARTIFICIAL.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new 26-foot-long humpback 
whale skeleton now hangs from the 
ceiling of the Florida Museum of 
Natural History.
The project took a year to com-
plete but ﬁ  nished on time for the 
museum’s 100th anniversary, wrote 
Kaitlin Gardiner, the museum’s 
public relations coordinator, in an email.
The exhibit was constructed by 
Michael Adams, who works in the 
museum’s exhibit fabrications de-
partment, Gardiner said.
“It took (him) more than a year 
to articulate,” she said. “It has 264 
bones, ﬁ  ve of which were missing 
and had to be 3-D printed.”
The whale was a juvenile male 
humpback that washed ashore in New Smyrna Beach, Florida, in 1990, Gardiner said. It was later do-
nated to the museum.
She said the skeleton will be 
a central exhibit, with the goal of 
showing how fossils can lead to new 
discoveries of the natural world. 
“We wanted to do something 
special for our 100th anniversary 
that would have a lasting impact,” wrote Darcie MacMahon, the muse-
um’s director of exhibits and public 
programs, in an email. 
The skeleton will be unveiled 
this Saturday for the museum’s 
100th anniversary event, MacMa-
hon said. The new installation will be displayed in the main gallery space, suspended from the ceiling.
There is still one piece missing 
from this exhibit, however: a name. That, MacMahon said, will be up to the museum’s visitors to decide.
“We’re looking forward to un-
veiling it this Saturday and will ask visitors to suggest names for this new iconic museum skeleton,” MacMahon said.New whale skeleton to be unveiled at Florida Museum
Courtesy to the Alligator
The completed humpback whale skeleton is ready to be unveiled at the 100th anniversary celebration 
of the Florida Museum of Natural History. 
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
off the bus, I was just done with 
everything.”
Crews said she resorted to 
buying Percocet on the streets, $150 for about 40 to 50 pills a week. At her worst, she was tak-
ing 10 pills a day in addition to 
Xanax to sleep at night, she said.
That’s when she checked into 
Meridian the second time and 
did another 90-day session from November 2016 to February. 
She knew she wanted to escape 
from the pain inﬂ  icted during her drug abuse.
“There’s a period of time 
when I only saw darkness,” she said. “I wouldn’t get out of bed, I would just sleep and cry, sleep and cry.”
Alachua County has not seen the same level of opioid and nar-
cotic crisis that’s swept the na-
tion and the rest of Florida.
It’s worse in South Florida, 
though parts of North Central 
have seen a presence as well, 
said Gainesville Fire Rescue Chief Joseph Hillhouse.
In Duval County, medical 
examiners found fentanyl was 
the cause of about 40 deaths in 
2015, while there were about ﬁ  ve in Alachua County. Deaths per 100,000 people in Duval 
County were more than double 
that of Alachua County, accord-ing to UF’s Florida Drug-Relat-ed Outcomes Surveillance and Tracking System database.
Hillhouse said even though 
GFR has used Narcan, an anti-opiate medication, in emergency cases more often over the past 
decade, the trend matches a steady rise in all emergency calls.
Emergency medical person-
nel also use Narcan on residents 
who accidentally take too much 
of their prescribed medication or 
suffer a cardiac arrest, he said.
“If we put (opioids) on a pie 
chart of the emergencies we handle, it wouldn’t even have 
its own color on the chart,” Hill-
house said. “We do not have a rise in opioid use here in Ala-chua County.”
For Dr. Henry Young, a re-
searcher and clinician with the UF Department of Emergency 
Medicine, the opioid issue is 
becoming more of a problem on the streets than over the coun-ter. He said the primary opioid 
is manipulated and sold outside Puerto Rico, still didn’t have power 
from Hurricane Irma.
Beltran’s aunt was able to get in 
touch with the family right as the 
storm moved through the town. She said the garage door was broken 
down, and there was ﬂ  ooding in her 
house. The eye of Hurricane Maria 
passed right over Beltran’s home-
town, Los Prados.
“There’s massive destruction ev-
erywhere near my house,” Beltran said. 
Angel Santiago, a UF applied 
physiology and kinesiology junior, has made helping Puerto Rico one of his priorities as president of UF’s 
Unión de Estudiantes Puertorrique-
ños Activos.
Yesterday he drove a truck full 
of supplies from the Reitz Union to a shipping center in Jacksonville. From there, the supplies were sent to Puerto Rico. The truck was ﬁ  lled 
with about 10 generators and cloth-
ing donations. Santiago has begun 
plans to raise money, with the club 
deciding on an organization at their next meeting.
“There’s about 50,000 students 
here at the University of Florida, just 
one person that is willing to help is 
making a difference,” the 20-year-old said. 
For 18-year-old Erika Domenech, 
getting together to help is the spirit of the Puerto Rican people. 
“The sense of unity that arises 
with these kinds of events, I think I ﬁ  nd it really interesting, and I think it kind of says something about Puer-to Rican culture,” the UF marketing 
freshman said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
ADDICTION,  from pg 1
FORUM,  from pg 1All of the island lost power
It’s set for Monday nightCarlos Giusti / The Associated Press
From left: Rescue team members Candida Lozada, Stephanie Rivera, Mary Rodriguez and Zuly 
Ruiz embrace as they wait to assist in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on Wednesday.
Michael Smith / Alligator
night because there are party general 
body meetings for Sunday, Monday and Tuesday nights.
“We don’t have time available,” 
Werk said. “Obviously we’d love to 
go to a forum and speak to students, 
but because of Irma, our schedule is squished together.” 
Werk said Impact will probably re-
spond Friday, suggesting a different time and day. 
Impact doesn’t want to send Auy-
ang by himself, Werk said, because that would prevent Impact candidates from 
listening and better understanding their 
party president’s ideas and hearing the other forum participants’ views. 
“It’s always nice to understand the 
competition, for lack of a better word, so we can further our ideas in depth and explain what sets us apart,” Werk said. Lima said Inspire Party decided to 
hold the forum because traditionally the SG Elections Committee only holds a 
debate in the Spring. He said if Impact 
decides not to participate, the forum will still be held.
“We’re just trying to make it easy for 
voters to get the information they need,” Lima said. 
The moderated forum is scheduled 
from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Monday at the Pugh Hall Ocora, Lima said. There will 
be opening statements and a chance for 
audience members to ask questions. 
When O’Sullivan read Lima’s email, 
he was excited to connect with voters, as well as people he could potentially work with if he’s elected, he said. 
Clark said he thinks holding the 
event is an “excellent idea.”
“I think any chance for a debate is 
always a positive thing, especially when it’s organized in a way that allows for a civil discussion of issues,” Clark said. the doctor’s ofﬁ  ce.
“Now you’re noticing synthetic 
opioids and fentanyl medications 
from the street starting to overtake the epidemic,” he said.
Larry McGee, a drug counselor at 
the UF Health Florida Recovery Cen-ter, said he’s positive many UF stu-dents use opioids for experimentation rather than abuse.
McGee, who misused cocaine be-
tween 2002 and 2007, worries stu-dents are far more at risk nowadays because opioids are getting mixed with other substances.
“Maybe with one batch you were 
able to shoot up a $10 bag of heroin, then you go three days later and you buy a batch from someone else, and 
you’re dead,” he said. “You really 
just don’t know.”
Kelli Crews still has her worries.She said she’s looking for work 
now and living with 11-year-old 
Clayton in Arbor House, St. Francis House’s permanent support housing for women and women with children.
Minimum wage life is taxing, she 
said, and she fears her Medicaid will 
not continue to cover the Suboxone pills she takes to abate the opioid 
temptations.
Despite the hardship, there’s a lot 
of good she has that keeps her spirits 
up — namely, her son.
When they’re not planning their 
next taco Tuesday dinner at home, Clayton’s favorite, or playing “Call of Duty” and “Destiny” together, they just hang out, mother and son.
“It gets better in time,” she said. 
“Now, I look forward.”
This is part one of a two-part series 
on locals with substance abuse disor-ders. Check back Monday for more.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
•   •   ••   •   •MARIA,  from pg 1FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested two Ocala 
men Wednesday who were 
suspected in a home invasion robbery at LynCourt Square Apartments on Aug. 25, 
Gainesville Police said.
The men, Blake Chisolm, 
20, and Willis Lubin, 20, were 
arrested while a third suspect, Brinson Pierre-Fils, 28, has been identiﬁ  ed but not locat-ed, wrote GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. Investigators are trying to lo-
cate Pierre-Fils.
The three men entered an apartment, located at 1218 SW 
Third Ave., Tobias said. Lu-bin was allegedly armed with 
a handgun and tried to take 
marijuana from a resident, To-bias said. 
The victim resisted and 
fought Lubin over the gun, causing it to ﬁ  re and graze the victim’s hand. Another resident, who overheard the incident, confronted and over-
powered the suspects, Tobias 
said. 
The three men ﬂ  ed the 
scene before police arrived, Tobias said.
Police were able to match 
glasses found at the scene with glasses in videos Lubin and Chisolm posted on You-Tube. Police were also able 
to use the YouTube videos to 
match the suspects to the men in the surveillance footage, Tobias said. 
Chisolm and Lubin were 
arrested on a charge of home invasion with a deadly weap-on and taken to the Alachua County Jail. Chisolm remains 
in jail, as of press time, in 
lieu of a $500,000 bond. Lu-bin remains in jail in lieu of a $750,000 bond. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgTwo arrested for robbery near 
campus, third suspect 
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A former Oak View Middle School 
teacher faces federal child sex trafficking 
charges, the FBI said.
Jeffrey Farrell Davis was charged with 
child sex trafficking and using a minor to produce child pornography, according to an FBI affidavit. FBI agents said Davis vid-eotaped himself having sex with a 14-year-
old girl, who was sold for sex.
In June, the Partnership for Strong Fam-
ilies received information from the Florida 
Department of Juvenile Justice that a child was being advertised and sold for sex by two adults, one of whom was the victim’s close relative, according to the affidavit. 
FBI agents interviewed the victim, who 
described a “camera guy” living near 412 
E. University Ave., according to the affi-
davit. 
The victim said the man recorded them 
having sex multiple times. She identified the man as Davis in a lineup, according to the affidavit. Alachua County Public Schools spokes-
person Jackie Johnson said Davis had no disciplinary action when he was a technol-
ogy teacher from 2010 to 2015. 
FBI agents interviewed Davis in Den-
ver, Colorado, where he moved in August. 
He said he filmed sexual activity but be-lieved the victim was 19 years old, accord-ing to the affidavit.GPD: Former teacher charged for sex traﬃ   ckingBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF assistant professor was arrested 
about two weeks ago after physically ﬁ  ghting with a woman over Hurricane Irma preparation, Gainesville Police said.
Jonathan Edelmann, 41, was arguing 
with the woman about removing a tree be-fore the arrival of Hurricane Irma at about 7:37 p.m. Sept. 9 when he became violent and pushed her, causing her to hit the side of her face as she fell, according to an ar-rest report.
The woman, fearful of what Edelmann 
might do, began recording the incident after she fell. In the recording, Edelmann 
threatened to punch her in the face if she 
did not stay quiet, according to the re-port. He was also recorded threatening to punch the woman in the stomach. 
Edelmann was arrested Sept. 9 on 
charges of domestic assault and domes-tic battery. Edelmann 
admitted to police he 
physically pushed and 
verbally threatened the woman, according to the report.
Edelmann is part of 
the faculty in the De-
partment of Religion, said Janine Sikes, a UF spokesperson. He is on administrative 
leave with pay, Sikes said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUF assistant professor 
arrested for assault
Edelmann
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Column
I had the opportunity to ﬂ  y quite a bit this 
past summer, with a couple trips to New York and Boston, but mostly several trips 
to San Francisco to visit my girlfriend in 
Berkeley, California.
The exact itinerary of my treks out West 
was never the same across all the trips, and I 
got to experience a number of different airlines. 
Unfortunately, the entire process of searching for ﬂ  ights, deals and the quickest route from point A to B can be frustrating. Prices seem to oscillate up and down by the minute, airlines seem to enjoy tacking 
on additional charges right as you hit “Proceed to Check-
out,” and there’s nothing worse than settling on a ticket only to ﬁ  nd a cheaper one the next day. Let’s also not forget the actual stress of simply traveling by air.
Flying has been a large part of my life for as long as 
I can remember. My mother was a ﬂ  ight attendant for Delta Air Lines, and my father traveled excessively for his job. Combine these two factors and you get a lot of SkyMiles and thus the ability to take the family on many 
trips. I am very grateful to have been able to ﬂ  y so much 
growing up, but everything changes when you are the one paying for your ﬂ  ights.
The idea of me being more frugal and price-conscious 
once funds started coming out of my own pocket is not shocking, and it has allowed me to evaluate the entire process from a different perspective. 
The airline industry appears to be a hectic mess of in-
consistent pricing and incessant delays, but I am starting 
to wonder if it is actually over-regulated. Current laws in 
the U.S. require any and every ﬂ  ight between two domes-tic locations be serviced by a domestically owned airline. This limits everyone’s choices to Delta, American Air-
lines, United Airlines, Southwest Airlines and a few oth-
ers. There’s a total of 16 major carriers in the U.S., which sounds like a healthy number of airlines, but eliminating this archaic law could make the industry so much better for ﬂ  yers.
When I scoured the internet for the best 
priced ﬂ  ight from Orlando to San Francisco, I noticed, overall, the round-trip prices did not vary signiﬁ  cantly across the major airlines. If I got it far enough in advance, it was going to 
be about $300 to $400 round-trip regardless. 
That type of predictability might seem nice, but I would love for it to be lower, if possible. If the 
U.S. allowed competition from internationally owned air-lines on its domestic ﬂ  ights, elementary-level economics 
would stroll in and the beauties of a free market would 
begin to blossom.
Increased competition among airlines would bring 
about the most efﬁ  cient price and quantity of domestic 
ﬂ  ights. Domestic airlines would have to buckle down and 
improve their services, lower their prices or even both. The result would be more — and better quality and/or priced — options for consumers.
“Foreign airline competition and capital investment 
in U.S. airlines could quickly improve passenger service, lower fares, result in new start-up airlines, and relieve overcrowding,” said Paul Hudson, the president of the nonproﬁ  t airline consumer organization FlyersRights.org.
Flying itself is a stressful experience, but the act of ar-
ranging and purchasing tickets should not be, especially given the number of airlines currently operating. The cur-rent law only allowing domestic airlines to service do-mestic ﬂ  ights is an outdated, protectionist policy that is 
only hurting ﬂ  yers by restricting the market. The airline 
industry is international by nature, and I feel if any in-dustry needs to protect domestic producers, it’s not this one.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.The airline industry needs some competitionEditorial
Darts & LaurelsYou’re sitting at a table in your favorite local coffee shop, 
sipping on an oh-so-delicious vanilla latte you’ve been craving 
all day. You sit there and somewhat pretentiously scribble away in your journal, pretending as though you have some sort of dark, mysterious thing going on. You hope maybe you’ll catch 
someone’s eye, and they’ll be enamoured by how deep you ap-
pear to be.
To your surprise, your plan seems to work. As you look up 
from your leather-bound notebook you paid way too much for at the Gainesville Indie Flea market downtown, you lock eyes with the most beautiful specimen you’ve ever seen.
You smile, and they walk over to you.“Hi,” you say, “I know this is pretty forward, but any chance 
I could get your number?” Because you wouldn’t dare shatter 
the idea of your brooding, profound aesthetic, you hand them a 
piece of a paper and a pen, so they can write down their phone number.
Much to your delight, they eagerly scribble across the paper 
and hand it back to you. Strangely enough, instead of a phone 
number, the paper reads:
Last week, we were lucky enough to have said our ﬁ  nal 
goodbyes to Hurricane Irma. Not long after, islands in the Ca-
ribbean were ravaged once more by Hurricane Maria. Puerto 
Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló told CNN on Wednesday the is-
land could be out of power for months. Islanders throughout 
the area are without power and resources and are living each 
day with little knowledge of what the future holds for them. 
A little further West, Mexico was hit this week with its 
second major earthquake this month, leaving hundreds of 
people dead. These relentless natural disasters that have 
been plaguing our planet recently are nothing to take lightly and quite deservingly receive our ﬁ  rst dart.
Enough about natural disasters. Let’s move on to the 
man-made ones. More namely, President Donald Trump’s  
address at the U.N. General Assembly. Some people exuded 
pride for Trump’s recent display in New York City, but we 
have to say, we were less than pleased.
For the ﬁ  rst time since he was sworn into ofﬁ  ce, Trump 
spoke to U.N. leaders. His remarks showed nothing but im-maturity and disrespect for the sanctity of the U.N. 
He used his “America First” doctrine to address the U.N. 
While we agree it’s great to keep our nation as our ﬁ  rst prior-
ity, this type of declaration has no place being emphasized 
while addressing the U.N. The entire purpose of the assem-
bly is for nations to come together in an effort to selﬂ  essly 
protect humanity and each other’s best interests. 
He proceeded to make immature “Trumpisms” through-
out his speech such as referring to Kim Jong-un as “Rocket Man” in some sort of a dark and twisted joke attempting to 
exert his dominance over North Korea. 
Our president’s shallow, embarrassing and unfortunately 
unsurprising display at the General Assembly is our last dart 
of the week.
Despite all the negativity surrounding us right now, we 
like to leave you all each week on a positive note. This week, we’d like to call attention to the City of Gainesville for cel-
ebrating “Welcoming Week” this past week, a time meant to 
embrace and thank foreign-born Alachua County residents 
for their contribution to the community. We couldn’t be any 
prouder to call a city with this type of acceptance our home 
and thus would like to award the city with our laurel of the 
week. 
Only one laurel? You read correctly, dear readers. It’s 
been a rough week. Bear with us, will you?Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgThe bitter trap of nostalgia:      
Ruminations on our younger yearsThe longer I’m in college, the more  
nocturnal I become, and that's greatColumn ColumnFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
High school me was very dif-
ferent than the current me. Now, this column is not go-
ing to be about my dynam-
ic growth as a person, so 
I’m not going to go into too much 
detail. Here are some highlights: 
High school me was going to wait 
until she was 21 to drink (ha). High 
school me thought it was cool to wear a skirt over jeans. High school 
me once put a stuffed lobster in her pocket 
to be quirky. High school me was very self-conscious about wearing glasses. High school 
me thought no boy would ever like her. High 
school me didn’t go to parties and then justi-
ﬁ  ed that she wasn’t invited with the fact that 
she wouldn’t have wanted to go anyway.
High school was not the best time of my 
life, but it also wasn’t the worst.
I learned a lot, academically and person-
ally. I made some great friends — a few I still talk to, a few who were just friends for that 
time. I got to do some cool things.
Overall, it was pretty good. I wouldn’t go 
back, but don’t dread thinking about it. I have 
some fond memories, but I deﬁ  nitely do not 
consider those years to be the best of my life.
I think I will feel the same way about col-
lege when I leave. I learned a lot, academically 
and personally. I made some great friends. I 
got to do some cool stuff. I will look upon my 
college years fondly. But I wouldn’t want to 
go back.
Society and media, for some reason, 
seem to idealize the good old days. So many TV shows and movies tout college and high school as the best days of your life. While I’m 
sure most of us can separate ﬁ  ction from real-
ity, the fact is we encounter lots of people who ﬁ  t this description.
There’s a group of people I went to high 
school with who seem to be stuck in the same 
high school mentality. When I see them, we 
talk about high school, but it’s different from when I talk about the shared past with some of my other friends. When I speak with my best friend, 
we recollect fond moments, and 
we smile at them, but then we slip comfortably back into our current 
lives. When I talk with these specif-
ic people, we get stuck in a rut. It’s 
enjoyable while it lasts, I will ad-
mit. That thrill of gossip (although the topics have passed nearly eight 
years ago) is sweet, but it’s like molasses: Too much of it and it gets stuck to the roof of my mouth.
I walk away, and I feel remnants of my 
high school self creep back onto me, and I just need to shake her off.
It’s a comfortable mold to fall into. You 
know it well, after all. There were good mo-
ments there, but it’s not somewhere you want 
to stay. It’s not somewhere I want to stay, at 
least. It’s fun to look back, I’ll admit that. I’m 
a nostalgic person. I keep ticket stubs and re-
ceipts and look at old pictures to smile fondly 
on them. But there’s a difference between 
looking back and never moving forward.
I understand that high school and college 
represent the times before real responsibilities, like mortgages and 9-to-5 jobs and health care. 
I understand high school and college represent 
halcyon days of our youth — old enough to 
decide what to do with our Friday nights, but 
young enough that we don’t have to plan so 
much for Monday morning. Yes, it’s fun to 
look back, but there are some people who 
never move on.
There’s no solution to this — nor is it par-
ticularly a problem. It is, however, something 
to keep in mind. When you look back on your 
past, can you say you have actually moved on?
Petrana Radulovic is UF English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays. There once was a time 
when I would pour my cup of coffee at the crisp 
hour of 7 a.m. and listen 
to the birds chirp. You 
know, the good stuff. Seriously, I had the kind of mornings shown 
in movies. 
Even though I knew I would 
never wake up and stretch like 
a Disney princess, I still knew I would wake up after the sun. Only after I 
poured my coffee would my day ﬁ  nally be-
gin. 
Interestingly enough, my mornings still 
start roughly the same now that I am in col-
lege. I wake up at 6 a.m. instead of 7 a.m., 
but, as we all know when it comes to sleep, one hour doesn’t really make a difference. Who needs it anyway, right? Plus, in the caffeinated world we live in, I’ll just have a 
second cup of coffee to make up for the lost 
hour of sleep.
These new times and extra cups of cof-
fee were not hard to adjust to. In fact, now, 
I don’t mind a good sunrise and never have 
to choose between a vanilla latte or cara-mel macchiato when I have enough time to drink both. 
When I look at it this way, my college 
mornings almost start better than they ever have before. It’s my nights that have radi-cally changed, and I don’t mean in the wild way most people would think they would.
Now, I no longer have any concept of 
what late is. Even worse, the biological clock I have always been told could regu-late itself needs some desperate help. Now, I typically start to pour my fourth cup of 
coffee at 10 p.m. to stay alive. 
Essentially, 10 p.m. is the new 5 p.m. 
After a long day of doing all the things ev-
ery student does, I come home, kick back and get back to work all over again. Sometimes, I am not even crunching to meet that infamous 
11:59 p.m. deadline. Instead, I 
use these night hours to ﬁ  nish all the cleaning I should have done Sunday or bake the cookies 
I have been promising my room-
mate. The best part? I don’t even have to do any of this quietly, be-cause my entire apartment com-
plex is awake, too. 
I can hear the charming footsteps of my 
neighbors stomping on my roof as they probably do the same chores I am doing. My pre-med roommate is busy keeping the 
printer humming as she prints out all her 
study guides. No matter what we are all up to, we are deﬁ  nitely up to something, and we are usually just getting started. 
These days, I get a burst of energy when 
I see it’s only 12 a.m., because I know I can at least get 2 more hours of work in before actually going to sleep for a quick nap and waking up, ready to do it all over again.
Quite literally overnight, I have become 
nocturnal. Instead of sleeping under the stars, I’m looking right back at them amid all the other things I want to get working on. Thanks to my mostly 24-hour college 
campus, I can stay up all hours of the night 
without it feeling like nighttime anyway. 
The local CVS Health is open 24 hours, 
Library West is open 24 hours — even the 
gym doesn’t close until 1 a.m. That means I 
can shop for groceries, study and workout, all before the sun comes up. 
So I do, because, thanks to college, 11:59 
p.m. is not the end. It is only the beginning.
Victoria Fortier is a UF journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on 
Fridays.Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgVictoria 
Fortier
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
THEY SAID THE DEPICTION OF 
TEACHERS HAS BECOME NEGATIVE 
IN THE PAST 15 YEARS.
By Robert Lewis 
Alligator Contributing Writer
An education symposium at UF this week 
discussed negative portrayals of teachers in the 
media and their implications. 
The event, Schools on Screen: Public Percep-
tions of Teachers and Students (and why they matter), took place Wednesday and Thursday. 
Two graduate students in the UF College of Education, Elizabeth Currin, 34, and Stephanie 
Schroeder, 30, organized the event. 
Both Currin and Schroeder are former teach-
ers who participated in similar conferences in North Carolina, inspiring them to host one at 
UF. Currin said they received a grant to cover the event cost of $2,300. 
The two-day event featured a keynote 
speech given by Mary Dalton, a professor of communication and film and media studies at 
Wake Forest University. The conference also 
had a workshop and book panel, Currin said.
Dalton’s address highlighted the 15-year 
trend of the negative representation of teachers in film, Dalton said. This trend is increasing and can affect perception of teachers and education in general, she said. 
“We get ideas about what our society val-
ues from the stories that we tell,” Dalton said. “Most popular stories now … tend to be (told 
through) television and film.”
Dalton said teachers traditionally played the 
role of a savior character in the media, but it shifted with the educational policies of the No 
Child Left Behind Act and, later, Common Core.
Currin feels the event’s topic has far-reach-
ing implications beyond the College of Educa-tion.
“Because Dr. Dalton has identified a down-
ward trend in on-screen portrayals of schools, we wonder if the general public has an accurate sense of what schools, teachers and students 
are really like,” Currin said, adding that this 
also affects people’s opinions about how worth-while public education is.  
Dalton said overly positive representations 
of teachers in film and television can also pose a problem — they create unrealistic expectations 
and unattainable goals for aspiring teachers. 
“There’s a sweet spot somewhere, in terms 
of these depictions, these representations and we’re pretty far from it right now,” Dalton said.  Educators discuss their 
career’s portrayal in media
SUNFLOWER WAS 
DIAGNOSED WITH A 
HEART CONDITION.
By Madison Hindo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sunflower, a tan pit bull, chewed her 
way out of a locked crate her owners left 
her in after they vacated their Gainesville apartment.
Volunteer Corinne Thompson, a 
fourth-year UF veterinary student, met Sunflower the day she left quarantine  at Alachua County Animal Services, lo-cated at 3400 NE 53rd Ave. Sunflower approached Thompson, 25, with a tennis ball in her mouth. When Thompson tried to throw the ball for Sunflower, Sunflower appeared confused, Thompson said.
“It was like she was apologizing to me 
for doing something that she had never done, and it was just really sad,” Thomp-son said.
Thompson took Sunflower home to 
foster in August.
In September, Sunflower was diag-nosed with pulmonic stenosis at the UF College of Veterinary Medicine. Pulmonic stenosis is a life-threatening heart condi-tion, and Thompson is raising money for surgery to correct it.
Thompson hopes to raise $4,000 and 
has reached $2,157, as of press time.
Linda Eady and her mother, Betty 
Araujo, donated two tickets to the UF vs. 
Tennessee football game, which were auc-
tioned for $300.
When Thompson picked up the tickets, 
she brought Sunflower to meet Eady and Araujo. The experience left Eady in tears.
“After everything she’s been through, I 
can’t believe how sweet she is,” Eady said.
Fluid Lounge, located at 140 SW 128th 
St. in Newberry, will host a fundraiser for 
Sunflower’s surgery Tuesday from 6 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. with trivia and raffle prizes from local businesses.
Thompson hopes the surgeons are suc-
cessful next month when they place a bal-loon in Sunflower’s heart to allow oxygen to her lungs.
“I’m hopeful,” Thompson said. “What 
can you be other than hopeful?”Student raises more than 
$2000 for abused dog 
Madison Hindo / Alligator Contributor
Sunflower, a tan pit bull, will undergo surgery next month for a heart condition. 
A YouCaring page has fundraised $2,157 for her surgery, as of press time.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
A new restriction has been 
placed on the UF Park and Ride II 
lot. 
UF students with a Park and 
Ride decal are required to move 
their cars Fridays at 4 p.m. until 
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. for home 
football game weekends only, said Scott Fox, the director of Transpor-
tation and Parking Services.
Fox said a message about the 
new parking restrictions was sent Tuesday before the Tennessee home game Saturday. Emails were 
sent out, fliers were placed on cars 
and an electric sign was placed out-
side informing students of the new restriction. Fox also went to speak 
to the managers of nearby apart-
ment complexes. 
“We try, and as politely as pos-
sible, ask that we please just bear 
with us for these home football 
weeks so that people coming to 
the games have a place to park,” 
he said.
The Park and Ride lot was in-tended for students who live off 
campus to drive to campus, park 
there during the day and empty out 
the lot at night, Fox said. 
However, about 70 to 80 stu-
dents have been using their Park and Ride decals to store their cars 
overnight because their apartment 
complexes have run out of park-
ing, Fox said. This has changed the 
dynamics of the lot, which means 
less parking for trailers, Hilton Ho-
tel guests, visitors and UF donors 
who need a place to park on game-
day, he said. Students were encouraged to 
move their cars to Park and Ride 
Lot I on Friday and Saturday.
“We’re not telling those stu-
dents to go off campus to take their 
car away, we’re just saying to take 
it out of those lots,” Fox said. 
Nuha Chowdary, a UF industri-
al engineering junior, has had her Park and Ride decal for two years. 
She moved her car Friday because 
she was scared it would be towed 
and was confused about the new 
restriction. 
“I don’t understand why it’s in 
place, first of all, because during 
the game I didn’t see that many 
cars in the lot,” she said.
Fox said there were fewer cars because it was a recovery week for Hurricane Irma, which deterred 
people from coming to the game 
like they normally would.
Chowdary said the change has 
made it harder for her to get to her car. Instead of it being parked at 
the lot behind her apartment, she 
now has to move her car further 
away. 
“It’s actually pretty annoying 
because now I have to park at 
Southwest (Recreation Center),” she said. “I have to bus to my car, 
so it’s really inconvenient not hav-
ing it here.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgNew parking lot restrictions affect students on weekends  Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
PAINTING PARTY
A classroom full of people at the Painting with T ea and Coffee event at Matherly Hall on 
Wednesday. More than 60 people attended the event, which was sponsored by Create@UF.
Cars to be moved for football games FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
CAN’T WALK, CAN’T CONSENT CAN’T TALK, CAN’T CONSENT CAN’T ASSESS ANOTHER’S CONSENT CAN’T STAND, CAN’T CONSENTYOU’RE 
OKAY, 
RIGHT?
*AJKDLSWE SHOULD 
HANG OUT!
YUP. 
DEFINITELY 
INTO ME.
**“THINK BEFORE YOU ACT”
WAS YOUR ROOF 
DAMAGED BY HURRICANE IRMA?
The army corps of engineers can provide temporary repairs to your roof.
Operation blue roof can 
install a temporary roof covering on standard shingled roofs at no cost. 
Call 1-888-roof-blu (1-888-766-3258)
 for more 
information.
Call today. If you qualify, 
the temporary roof will be installed at no cost to you.T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
CELEBRATING PEACE
Eight-year-old Andrew Bittikoffer stands next to a model of the Earth 
during a ﬂ  ag ceremony promoting global unity as a part of the celebration of the International Day of Peace held on Bo Diddley Community Plaza.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
David McIntire worried about his fam-
ily while he slept on an air mattress in the 
Gainesville Public Works ofﬁ  ce.
Although the Gainesville Fire Rescue 
emergency management coordinator had 
spent weeks preparing the city for Hurri-
cane Irma, he couldn’t help but worry about his wife and two children sleeping at home while the storm clobbered Gainesville.
“The last thing you want to do is ﬁ  nd out 
something went bad,” he said. “Until you make that phone call to make sure everyone is safe, it’s very stressful at times.”His family fared well during the hurri-
cane, and his sacriﬁ  ces haven’t gone unno-ticed.
About 50 people gathered outside 
Gainesville City Hall on Thursday at 5:30 p.m. to celebrate and thank all of the pub-lic servants who made sacriﬁ  ces for the city during Hurricane Irma. Among the crowd were ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters; police ofﬁ  cers; Gainesville Regional Utilities workers; City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs work-ers and workers from the city manager’s of-ﬁ  ce, said Bob Woods, a city spokesperson. 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe delivered a 
brief thank you to the public workers and gifted each of them a ﬂ  ower donated by a citizen.
“Many employees put aside their personal 
needs,” Woods said. “They work long hours to support the overall mission to keep the 
community safe.”
The hard work of these public servants 
was reﬂ  ected in the low crime rate during 
the hurricane and absence of serious injury or death in the community, Poe said.
Poe choked up as he addressed the crowd.“There is nobody we’d rather serve than 
you all,” Poe said. “We are so incredibly for-tunate that you are part of Gainesville.”
Throughout the storm, public workers re-
sponded to citizens’ demands.
GFR put out a major ﬁ  re at the height of the storm, Gainesville Police helped control trafﬁ  c at the 130 trafﬁ  c lights that lost power, GRU restored power to about 41,000 custom-ers, and the Public Works Department car-
ried away more than 950 truckloads of de-
bris, Woods said.
McIntire said it’s nice to know the com-
munity and local government are apprecia-tive.
“It’s very important to make sure that you 
reward or acknowledge the successes that were made,” he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Gainesville thanks public workers for sacriﬁ  ces during IrmaABOUT 300 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE EVENT.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
For Mariia Levchenko, celebrating Interna-
tional Day of Peace in Gainesville wasn’t easy.
The hula hoops, food trucks and music were a 
stark contrast from the bombs that devastate her war-torn home country of Ukraine. 
Levchenko, a fellow for the River Phoenix 
Center for Peacebuilding in Gainesville — an organization dedicated to building safer com-munities by disrupting the cycle of violence — lives and works in Gainesville for the next four months, learning peacebuilding skills she can take home to Ukraine. 
“Peace is the most essential thing right now, 
especially in Ukraine,” she said. “If people know 
about the peace, then they want to ﬁ  ght for it.” 
Levchenko and the rest of the team at the 
River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding threw a 
celebration of International Day of Peace on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Thursday. From 3 p.m. to 7 p.m., about 300 people joined the fes-tivities, which included a proclamation read by Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, a ﬂ  ag ceremony, a ﬂ  ash mob, guest speakers and a march about 
ﬁ  ve blocks down West University Avenue from 
Bo Diddley Plaza to the Center for Innovation and Economic Development. Attendees enjoyed food from Cilantro Tacos, Off the Griddle food truck and snow cones from Tropical Sno. There were also about 10 to 15 booths set up for orga-nizations such as Peace4Gainesville, the Alachua County Labor Coalition and Aces in Motion. 
The event was meant to unite the community 
and remind everyone that making a difference is possible, said Jeffrey Weisberg, the executive di-rector of River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding.
“People get so in their own track of life and 
their interests,” he said. “So it’s really important to expand that and bring more people into differ-ent causes.”
For Kang, a fourth-year UF psychology doc-
toral candidate from China, celebrating Interna-tional Day of Peace has become somewhat of a tradition. Last year, she celebrated International Day of Peace with meditation.
Although Gainesville is a diverse city, Kang, 
28, said she feels the recognition of this diversity is few and far between. Besides the occasional march or rally, the importance of lifting up diver-sity and peace often subsides, she said. 
“It makes diversity more visible,” Kang said.Although peace looks different in Ukraine 
than it does in Gainesville, Levchenko said it’s encouraging to see the city participate in the 
global celebration. 
“For me it’s very painful to be here, but at 
the same time it’s beautiful because I can tell the 
story about my country,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgGainesville residents, businesses, 
organizations celebrate peace10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
THE NONPROFIT WILL GIVE 
OUT MORE PLANTS
 IN OCTOBER.
By Shelby Cohron
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new nonprofit gave away 212 
free plants in only six minutes on 
Turlington Plaza on Wednesday.
Collegiate Plant Initiative is a 
student-run nonprofit focused on connecting students with plants and horticulture, said Virginia Frazier, a 20-year-old UF food and resource eco-nomics junior. Frazier and classmates from her Plants, Gardening and You class started the group in Spring 2017 with the help of Dave Clark, their pro-fessor. It became a state nonprofit in August.
At about noon, the group handed 
out 12 UF-grown coleus breeds, like Gator Glory and Alligator Tears. Clark sat near the potato statue and watched the plants quickly disappear.
Matthew Green, a 19-year-old 
UF exploratory sophomore, learned about the plant drop on social media.
“I got a purple coleus that I gave 
to my friend,” Green said, “so she can share it with her cousin whom she’s visiting in Tallahassee.”
Frazier said the group’s main goals 
are to figure out what plants people like and to show people it’s easy to care for plants.
Frazier said the next drop will be 
on Turlington Plaza at 11:20 a.m. Oct. 13.
Although these plants were free 
and bred by Clark, the plant drop event was planned by students, Clark said.
“The best thing I can do, just like I 
was back at the potato, is sit back and watch these guys because they amaze me every time I see something new,” Clark said.New club gives out free 
plants to UF students
By Ashley Leong
Contributing Writer 
Alachua County Commission 
will meet Tuesday to discuss a $25 
million plan for new fairgrounds.
The new fairgrounds, located 
near Northeast Waldo Road, will 
have bigger buildings and an in-
door track. The building space will be 101,000 square feet larger than the current fairgrounds buildings, said Ron Gromoll, the fairgrounds manager. The fairgrounds current-ly hosts the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire, Alachua County Fair and Alachua County Youth Fair, but Gromoll expects more program-ming for the new fairgrounds.
“It will have a huge economic 
impact, not only to the areas it’s going to be in, but also to the whole area of Gainesville,” he said.
The new land is owned by 
Weyerhaeuser Company. The old fairgrounds property would be sold to the company and made into a commercial or industrial 
property, Gromoll said.
Gina Peebles, the assistant 
county manager for Alachua 
County, said the board will ask the state for an extra $2.5 million for the 18-month project.
“The current fairgrounds is 
located on a major intersection,” 
Peebles said. “It was thought that 
by not having the fairgrounds there, additional commercial busi-nesses could move into that spot and then that would help revitalize that part of our community.”
Funding for the project will 
come from a tourist development tax, which is for tourists staying in 
local hotels, Peebles said. 
“It’ll be a really great functional 
building that’ll have a long useful 
life for the citizens’ investment,” she said.Alachua County commissioners 
plan new fairgroundsBy Arianna Medina
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is working to protect some of 
the ocean’s most fragile animals.
A joint effort of the UF Levin Col-
lege of Law Conservation Clinic, the 
Alachua Conservation Trust Inc. and 
the Archie Carr Center for Sea Turtle 
Research has established a sea turtle conservation area in St. Johns Coun-ty, Florida.
The conservation area creates 
a protected stretch of beach where people aren’t allowed, said Tom An-kersen, the director of the Conserva-tion Clinic. Only researchers will be 
allowed on the stretch.
To help protect the turtles, the 
groups created the two-year conser-
vation easement, which uses resi-dential property. Ankersen hopes to expand sea turtle protection through-out the state.
Ankersen said he hopes property 
owners will sell or donate their land 
to help expand the nesting areas. The 
project’s budget is about $250,000, said Justin Caron, the Conservation Clinic’s director of special projects.
The groups chose to focus on sea 
turtles because they are endangered and many are still recovering from the 2010 BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, Ankersen said.
Ankersen said the project will 
help the turtles and help student re-searchers learn.
“We work with conservation or-
ganizations to protect wildlife and 
its habitat for perpetuity, and we do 
that in a way that helps to educate students,” Ankersen said.
Melissa Hill, a 22-year-old UF in-
terdisciplinary ecology graduate stu-
dent, was the project coordinator for 
Alachua Conservation Trust.
Hill said she surveyed locals and 
gathered information on the feasibil-ity of coastal conservation areas.
The nesting areas are important 
for sea turtles because it gives them a safe environment to lay their eggs, Hill said. It also helps them be as 
close as possible to the shoreline.
When the baby turtles hatch, they are small enough to fit in someone’s 
hands, Hill said. The newborns need as few obstacles as possible as they 
push their way through the sand and 
try to reach the ocean, since they al-ready face other predators, she said.
Hill said she was excited to see 
the conservation effort come togeth-er successfully.
“I was excited about the potential 
for our project to be effective, and the community of professionals and 
volunteers that worked to conserve 
sea turtles,” Hill said.UF establishes St. Johns County sea turtle conservation area
Courtesy to the Alligator
Students pick their coleus plants, donated by the Collegiate Plant 
Initiative, to take home on Wednesday. 
ONE OF THE SUSPECTS 
WAS ARRAIGNED.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
One of two people indicted 
by a federal grand jury for sex 
trafficking was arraigned Thurs-day at the U.S. District Court in Gainesville.
Bailegh Noelle Coleman, 20, 
of Starke, Florida, was arraigned after she and Rajheem Kwa-maine Roddey, 23, were indicted by a grand jury for conspiracy, sex trafficking of a minor and benefiting financially from sex trafficking of a minor, according to a press release from the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Florida.
Between April 25 and June 
12, Roddey and Coleman recruit-ed a child under 18, knowing the child was under 18, to be used for sex, according to the press release. The indictment accuses the pair of transporting the child to people who paid them to have sexual activity with the child.The case was investigated 
by the FBI, the Florida Depart-ment of Law Enforcement and the FBI Violent Gang Safe Streets Task Force, which work with Gainesville Police and the Ala-chua County Sheriff’s Office, ac-cording to the press release.
Coleman is in custody, and 
Roddey has not been arrested yet, according to the press re-lease. Coleman’s trial is sched-uled for Nov. 28.
According to Alachua County 
Court records, Roddey is from Lawtey, Florida.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
A day after Inspire Party re-
leased its platform, Impact Party published its own on Thursday.
Kylie Werk, an Impact Party 
campaign manager, said the Im-
pact platform was based on stu-
dent input gathered Monday and Tuesday, as well as during the past year since Impact Party mem-bers were elected in the executive branch and the majority of the Student Government Senate.
Some ideas on the platform in-
clude lobbying for 100 percent ex-
pansion of Florida Bright Futures 
Scholarship Program, creating midterm faculty examinations and establishing a UF music festival. Some ideas on Inspire’s plat-
form include free feminine hy-
giene products, improving com-
munication between students and the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs office, and establishing on-line voting for SG elections. 
Werk said students they spoke 
to were most concerned with 24/7 libraries, the Counseling & Well-ness Center’s lack of counselors 
and expanding SG printing loca-
tions.
Both Impact and Inspire said 
they would hire new mental health counselors to help with overbooking at the center.
Impact said they would hold a 
referendum to decide what library will be 24/7. Inspire said they 
would commit to making either Marston Science Library or Li-
brary West, or both, 24/7.
“If we’re elected, and we get 
to serve in the Senate, we want to make sure the $20 million in the budget are used to improve the university as a whole and the stu-dent lives,” said Ben Lima, Inspire Party’s president.
Werk said Impact party created 
a small 10-piece platform because 
candidates wanted tangible ideas 
to accomplish by next Fall. Inspire party had 14 platform ideas.
“It is a little more general 
so students have the ability to ask questions to senators when they’re campaigning in person,” Werk said about Impact’s plat-form.Two indicted for sex trafficking 
Impact Party releases platformBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other fe-
males. Campus View Condos. Short walk to 
UF, Sorority Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  
305-710-1232   9-22-17-9-3
CABANA BEACH APT! 1BR/1BA in 4BR/4BA 
$445/mo! Furnished. Utilities & amenities in-cluded! W/D in unit. Female only. Great pool, rec room. Close to UF & The Oaks Mall. No pets. Call 352-207-1039     9-29-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
WE'RE HAVING A YARD SALE!
September 23, 7am-3pm.
1211 NW 10th Ave.
More info: thefiatcenter@gmail.com     9-22-
17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     10-2-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.6 Furnishings
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished3 Sublease 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
Violinist seeking treble-clef-reading duet partner for paid gigs (flute or violin). Must be advanced (Bach Double, 3rd position, vi-brato). Please call Elizabeth 503-473-3295.     10-2-5-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-2-5-14
Now Hiring! Managers, Assistant Managers, & Associates for Goodwill stores. Start at $9.15/hr. Call (352) 335-1311 or visit Job Junction at 3520 SW 34th St. Apply online at goodwilljax.org      10-2-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      9-22-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-9-9-20
13 Wanted
(386) 462-7779JungleFriends.org
volunteer@junglefriends.org
Every day of the week
Sunup to SundownWe Need Volunteers!14 Help Wanted 16 Health ServicesFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Bored? Like to laugh?Need water to survive?If you said yes, google:"READY SET COMEDY PODCAST"It's for you!                                    9-29-4-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Hubbub
5 Thompson of
“Westworld”
10 One way to 
lean
14 Stephen
Hawking subject
15 Tough tests of
knowledge
16 Offer the same
opinion as
17 Princess Royal of
Britain
18 -, at times
19 Reclined20 Setup provider’s
abbr.
21 Hogwarts
chroniclerimitating noisydogs?
23 Like many deli
orders
25 Western peer of
Tex and Gene
26 Devices that
record data onnoisy dogs?
32 Part of XL: Abbr.33 Toon cat since
the silent era
34 Reacts to bad
news, perhaps
37 War-torn land39 More rational41 All in42 St. Anthony’s
home
44 It’s not exactly a
pick-me-up
46 Airport approx.
47 Photographer of
noisy dogs?
50 Disney Store
collectible
51 Semi bar
52 Paintings
depicting noisy
dogs?
58 First name in folk61 Choppers62 Stop by63 Printer function64 News article intro65 Gradually
weaken
66 It can be hard to
get out of
67 It can be hard to
get out
68 Call attention (to)69 Bellicose godDOWN
1 Attempt
2 Like a mite
3 “Give me a few
minutes”
4 Adidas subsidiary5 He beat out
Sonny & Cherand Herman’s
Hermits, among
others, for the
Best New Artist
Grammy
6 Christine’s
phantom admirer
7 Emulated 5-Down
8 Nasty comment
9 Categorize
10 Source of much
canine delight
11 Nutritious berry
12 Gym exercise13 Giant film primate22 Burdens24 Desktop animation
image suffix
26 Control tower
signal
27 Indian shrine site
28 Forest clearing
29 Member of the
undergroundeconomy?
30 CFOs, e.g.31 Orient Express
feature
35 Shakespeare’s
shrew
36 Vega, for one
38 Cement type for
home repairs
40 Pursued
vigorously
43 Homo sapiens
relatives
45 63-Across
alternative48 Small wading
bird
49 State of matter52 Constitutional53 Strong farm team54 Overhaul55 Gift from
Prometheus
56 Beginning57 Play polo, say59 Relax
60 Word that can
replace “your”
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/22/1709/22/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 22, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Hopped out of
bed
6 Challenge for
Santa’s dry-
cleaner
10 Medicine __,
Alberta
13 OPEC, for one
15 Radius neighbor
16 Sworn statement
17 Measurement
based on inflationandunemployment
rates
19 X, at times
20 Tesla Motors 
co-founder Musk
21 “Inside Politics”
channel
22 Poet laureate, e.g.
24 “Postcards From
the Edge” author
28 Where Moses
received the Ten
Commandments,for short
31 Colorful fall tree
32 Put together33 Instagram
upload, briefly
34 Three-time A.L.
MVP
37 “Is there more?”
38 Smart comment?42 Baja she-bear43 Understands45 Solar wind
particle
46 Song of worship
48 Off-white color
50 It may be reckless
52 Semipermeable
biological barrier
55 Big glitch
56 Inhospitable57 2000s Chevy61 Signature piece?
62 Author born
9/21/1947 whopenned the starts
of 17-, 24-, 38-
and 52-Across
66 Biblical craft67 Roof edge
68 “Mad About You”
co-star
69 “But, mom!”
evokers
70 Zoomed
71 Drumroll drum
DOWN
1 Top
2 Scenic overlook
safety feature3 Driving directions
qualifier
4 Sign maker’s aid
5 Always, in
sonnets
6 Denomination of
most Iraqi Kurds
7 Unlike spring
chickens
8 Person
9 Advice for an 
e-filer
10 Get going11 One-named “All I
Ask” singer
12 Skin care
product
14 Sports bra fabric
18 Cross characters
23 Land surrounded
by agua
25 Not pro
26 Bahrain bigwig
27 One of John
Adams’“stubborn things”
28 Corp. execs’
degrees
29 Use a fork,
perhaps
30 Exercises that
strengthen
obliques
33 “Sign language is
pretty handy,”
e.g.35 Nobel Prize city
36 Butler’s last word
39 Flag40 “Chariots of Fire”
Oscar nominee
Ian
41 Time period
44 __-service
47 Enter
surreptitiously
49 Makes giggle
50 Cat’s back
shape, at times51 Tylenol rival
52 Political channel53 Calendario
month
54 Two-footer58 Authorization to
enter a country
59 Fed. power dept.60 Barbarian63 __ water64 Holiday threshold
65 Nintendo’s Super
__ console
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/21/1709/21/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 21, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Vin ____
1.  Station troops5.  Home to the Louvre 
2.  Unpredictable 6.  Claw
3.  Fifth Greek letter7.  ____ overlook
4.  Medical ____LSEIDE
PDOYLESPAIR
OTANL
TRCERIA
EIOSPNLCNESCI
LNCCIIANSWERS: 1A-Diesel  5A-Paris  6A-Talon  7A-Scenic
1D-Deploy  2D-Erratic  3D-Epsilon  4D-Clinic  B-Sally Ride9-22-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: As of 2017, this astronaut was the youngest 
U.S. astronaut to travel to space.
BONUS
21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
How long has it been since Kentucky beat Florida?
The Wildcats' last win over the Gators came in 1986, when Ronald Reagan 
was still president of the United States, college football kickers were al-
lowed to use tees on ﬁ  eld goals and tuition at UF was slightly over $1,000.Senior swimmer Mark 
Szaranek  looks to lead the 
Gators to success in their season-opening meet this weekend. Read the story, pg. 15. By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Florida’s football players know about 
streaks. Last year, they entered a game 
at Tennessee having won 11 straight 
over the Volunteers. Former Gators 
cornerback Quincy Wilson announced he had a message for UT ahead of that game when he asked whether a duck 
could pull a truck, the point being that 
ducks don’t pull trucks, and Tennessee doesn’t beat Florida. That’s just the way it is. Or at least the way it was. “It means everything,” he added of 
the streak over Tennessee. “We can’t give up that streak. We’re deﬁ  nitely go-
ing in and giving it all we’ve got.”
As it turned out, a duck could, in 
fact, pull a truck, and the Gators fell 
to the Volunteers. So heading into a 
clash with Kentucky on Saturday hav-
ing won 30 straight over the Wildcats, no Florida players did any trash talking about ducks and trucks or any other va-rieties of birds and vehicles this week. 
Some said they weren’t even aware of 
the streak. One was wideout Freddie Swain, 
who said he'd never heard of the streak when it was brought up by reporters on 
Tuesday. 
Regardless, Swain recognizes the 
game’s importance for No. 20 Florida, 
and so does coach Jim McElwain. Un-
like last year’s loss to Tennessee, losing 
to Kentucky would put Florida at two losses and likely sink any champion-ship aspirations before they leave the harbor. But McElwain also said a win  Gators tuning out talk for Kentucky game
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
The Gators beat the Wildcats, 45-7, last year. But they aren't taking their Saturday matchup with UK lightly. 
Jim McElwain may coach at one of the top public uni-
versities in the country, but he had to go to Texas to learn 
an important lesson: Save your trash talk for after the game. 
In a preseason pep rally, McElwain said the Gators 
would go to Dallas and “beat the heck out of Michigan.” 
You probably didn’t hear about it. It doesn’t really stand 
out as crossing a line — until you cross a few state lines. 
In Michigan, that quote was plastered across major 
news outlets. And it gave the Wolverines something we call bulletin board material, motivating them to prove McElwain and Florida fans wrong. A few weeks later, they did. And McElwain stood sour-faced at a postgame lectern, reluctantly talking about how his team got “whooped.”
That’s why you won’t see another similar quote from 
McElwain before No. 20 Florida’s game Saturday against Kentucky. No trash, no smack, no nothing. If anything, he’s overcorrected. This week, he said Kentucky — a team with just one eight-win season in the last 10 years — was in the driver’s seat. That’s right. He said the Wildcats — who haven't beaten the Gators since the U.S. was in the Cold War — are sitting in the driver’s seat. What possible ve-hicle could Kentucky be in the driver’s seat of? The Titanic? A horse and buggy? A Roman chariot?
But maybe McElwain’s onto something because he’s not 
the only one hyping Kentucky. Of USA Today’s six sports writers that pick the winners of college football games, half of them picked the Wildcats. 
While it’s likely true that this Kentucky team is better 
than it has been in year’s past, are they the new team to beat in the SEC East? I don’t buy it. But McElwain’s glow-ing praise would make you think so. He said this week that Kentucky was one of the most skilled teams last year. 
He said the UK coaching staff is outstanding. He said the 
Wildcats are “playing as well as anybody is in the league.” I guess Kentucky is as good as Alabama. Who knew? 
But McElwain doesn’t actually think Kentucky is an in-
credible team. If you gave him truth serum and asked him to rank the SEC’s best, he’d probably put UK in the bot-tom three. But after the Michigan trash talk blew up in his face, he’ll probably say that every opponent is outstanding. When he makes comments like these, he’s not talking foot-
ball; he’s playing politics. 
This strategy comes up often in political debates. 
Step 1) Hype up your opponent as a master debater 
who’s spent every hour preparing. 
Step 2) Tell everyone you’ve barely practiced, and not 
to expect a great performance from you. 
Step 3) When the debate comes, as long as you string 
a few sentences together, you've surpassed expectations. 
At least, I hope that’s what McElwain’s doing. Because 
if he truly believes the Wildcats are a threat, then the Gators will never be in the driver’s seat. They might as well be rolled up in a carpet inside of Kentucky's trunk. 
Matt Brannon is the Alligator's sports editor. You can 
follow him on Twitter @MattB_727 and contact him at mbrannon@alligator.org.You won't hear any 
smack from McElwain 
before facing WildcatsMatt's What She Said / Opinion
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727
SOCCER: TAMU 2, UF 1
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After earning a free kick nearly 45 
yards from goal, Texas A&M junior 
defender Kendall Ritchie stood over 
the ball and surveyed the ﬁ  eld.
With the game tied at one, Ritchie 
locked onto her target, and swung 
hard for goal.
Florida goalie Kaylan Marckese was 
off her line, positioned just outside the 6-yard box when Ritchie’s gambit paid off. Her game-winner snuck into the top corner of Marckese’s near post.The No. 6 Gators (7-2, 1-1 SEC) fell 
to the Aggies (5-2-1, 1-1 SEC) in Col-lege Station, Texas, Thursday night in a 2-1 match that featured some of the 
most physical play Florida has expe-
rienced all season. A total of 25 fouls were called on the evening, the third most in a Gators game this year.
Texas A&M struck ﬁ  rst in the open-
ing half. 
On a long throw-in with 12 min-
utes to go before the break, the ball bounced to sophomore forward Ci-
enna Arrieta, who balanced the ball 
off her chest, then her head, down to her left foot, all between two Gator defenders.
Arrieta cocked her leg back and let 
off a shot from about 35 yards out. 
The ball took two bounces on the way 
toward Marckese’s far post and found a way into the corner after Marckese appeared to get a few ﬁ  ngers on it.
Florida bounced back early in the 
second half. Just across midﬁ  eld, red-shirt senior Gabby Seiler lobbed a vol-ley into the path of freshman forward Deanne Rose. Surrounded by three  Gators falter in a physical road matchup
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s and women’s 
cross country teams will return to 
regular season action on Saturday at the Mountain Dew Invitational, 
hosted at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course in Gainesville.
“We got a little break due to 
Irma, but I think it’s recharged them both mentally and physical-ly,” assistant coach Chris Solinsky said. “We’re at a point where we are really excited to test ourselves again. That was definitely a good 
starting point, it’s always good to 
get that first race out of the way and work the cobwebs out. It’s a stepping stone.” 
The teams are coming off 
strong showing at the North Flor-ida Invitational on Sept. 7, with five women’s runners and four men’s runners placing in the top 
10. Sophomore Jessica Pascoe, 
who placed second on the wom-en’s side, is excited to perform at the Gators’ only home meet of the season.
“Last year, the home meet was 
my first meet as a college athlete so it’s just a great environment, with everybody out supporting and 
cheering your name,” Pascoe said. 
“(It’s something) you’re not gonna really get in a race with 400 people in different parts of the country, where you don’t know anyone.”
Pascoe is one of many who So-
linsky is looking forward to see-ing make an impact this weekend. Others include redshirt sopho-mores Autumn Bartlett and Emily Chapman, who placed behind Pas-coe in the women’s 5K at UNF.
“We’ll (also) be seeing Lauren 
Perry for the first time in uniform this season and I’m really excited to see what she can do,” Solinsky 
said. “On the guys side I think 
(Marshall Dillon’s) been doing a really good job. It’s hard to actu-ally pinpoint one guy, because they’ve all been working really well together. So overall just look-ing to see where the pack is and how much they can improve as a pack.”
This meet will mark the first 8K 
of the season for the men’s team.
“I’m really looking forward 
to how me, as well as (a) bunch of the guys, can work together and accomplish something really cool,” redshirt Dillon said. “It’s re-ally our only home meet of the sea-son, so it’s our only shot to show 
the home fans, family and friends 
what we can accomplish.”
Regardless of the meet’s results, 
both  teams can look forward to performing alongside a supportive home crowd this weekend. The men’s 8K will begin at 7:55 a.m. and the women’s 5K at 8:30 a.m.
“It’s just fun because you all 
share that feeling and love for cross country,” Dillon said. “It’s a really good time to have so many people cheering for you, and also the fact that it’s (at) home. I know (for) me, and I’ll speak for a lot of the guys, it’s something that we actually have fun with.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgGators ‘recharged’ and ready for season’s only home meet
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The All-Florida Invitational is back in 
Gainesville this year after being held in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, last fall due to renova-tion work at the O’Connell Center. While the scenery may be different, the Florida 
men’s swimming and diving team is ready 
to participate in the event it placed first in last year.
“We’re four or five weeks into it now. 
We’ve been training, we’ve been building up, we’ve had a couple big weeks and we’re all in shape and ready to race,” senior Mark Szaranek said. “The freshmen have their first chance to race, and we have a couple 
international guys just like me.”
Szaranek, a Scottish native, has accrued 
numerous awards since he came to UF in 
2014. A 14-time All-American, Szaranek was a national champion in the 200 IM last year as well as a member of the All-SEC First Team. Coming off that season, Szaranek’s goals are more focused on the team’s suc-cess, rather than his own accolades.
“We had a pretty good season as a whole 
last year,” he said. “Just keep doing what we’re doing, and hopefully keep improv-ing. We can always take things to another level, and we’ll try and do that, try to pick everything up in training... Hopefully we’ll be here and ready to go.”
Szaranek was recruited by Michigan, Vir-
ginia Tech and Auburn, but it was the sto-
ried history of the UF swimming and diving team that lured him to Gainesville.
“The amount of Olympians that came 
out of this program is unmatched anywhere 
else,” he said. “The coaches are probably 
the best coaching staff in the world, and the 
training group that I’ve been with has been a great group to train with, and they always push me to be better.” 
The women’s team is also hoping to im-
prove upon last season. 
Placing seventh in the SEC Champion-
ships, the program looks to seniors such as Brianna Felegi, Elisavet Panti and Amelia 
Maughan, a four-time All-American and SEC 
Champion in the 200 free two years ago. Freshman prospects Yekaterina Aslanidi, Bettina Boszormenyi and Adrianna DeBoer are expected to make an impact as well.
Like the men, the women’s team will 
compete this weekend aiming to replicate its performance at last year’s All-Florida Invita-tional, where it finished first.
 As a whole, Florida’s swim teams are 
looking to come out strong and build off last year. But while expectations are high, Szaranek is simply thankful to be a part of of one of the SEC’s most dominant squads. 
“That’s the one thing here in the U.S 
that’s different than back home in Scotland,” he said. “Back home it’s individual, about what you can do. But here it’s about team 
points and what I can do for my teammates.”
@riverhwells 
rwells@alligator.orgUF swimming starting freshCROSS COUNTRY
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Coming off a season in which the Gators 
were one match away from clinching the SEC 
Championship, UF’s men’s tennis players will look to push themselves one step further in 
2016-17.
The Gators begin their journey to earn a 
conference title this weekend as they split up 
to compete in their first fall tournaments in Gainesville and Princeton, New Jersey.
The Gator Ranked +1 tournament brings 
nine teams including Kentucky, Tennessee and 
Mississippi State at UF’s Ring Tennis Complex.
Coach Bryan Shelton will stay in Gainesville 
with senior Chase Perez-Blanco, juniors Mc-
Clain Kessler and Alfredo Perez, sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and freshman Duarte Vale.
The Ivy-Plus Invitational will host teams 
from the northeast including Penn State, Co-lumbia, Yale and Harvard.
Volunteer assistant coach Scott Perelman 
will travel to Princeton, New Jersey, with senior Jordan Belga, sophomore Stephen Madonia and freshman Andy Andrade for the tournament.
“It’s a good opportunity for Coach Perelman 
to be in charge of that group that’s going up to Princeton and get to know those guys in a bet-ter way...with a small group you can get a lot closer...and build trust,” Shelton said. 
Shelton’s also not concerned with grading 
the team on wins and losses this weekend, but more so on how the team competes, how well they “control the controllables” and how well they deal with adversity.This will be the first time the team has com-
peted all season. This fall, they’ve been focus-ing a lot on things inside the gym, including 6 a.m. workouts four days a week, but this week-end will put that work to the test.
“Our team motto is rise and grind,” Kessler 
said.
In addition to a team motto, they have also 
established goals for the fall season on a per-sonal level and as a team.
“I think a big goal for all of us individually 
and just us as a team is to try to have everyone at least get a ranking from the fall,” Belga said. “It would definitely look good for all of us and give each of us a confidence boost, but also be really good establishment for the program.”
In the Gator Ranked +1 tournament, half of 
the players are ranked in the ITA top-125 rank-ings and three of them are in the top 20. Four Gators hold ITA rankings with Perez having the highest ranking in the tournament at No. 7.  
The Ranked +1 tournament is special be-
cause it is designed to allow any competing team to bring a ranked student-athlete inside the ITA top-125, and for every ranked player it can also bring one student-athlete on its team who is not ranked.
“It’s going to be a really, really strong field, 
so great opportunities for everybody to get ranked wins this weekend and compete against some of the best players in the country,” Shel-ton said.
The draws for Friday in both tournaments 
will begin at 9 a.m. and conclude on Sunday.
  @faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgUF men’s tennis begins todayAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior Lauren Perry has already caught the interest of assistant coach Chris Solinsky. 
“I’m really excited to see what she can do, ” Solinsky said. 
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2017
over the Wildcats would put Florida in the 
driver’s seat in the SEC East.
“Now, what does the driver’s seat mean?” 
McElwain asked. “It means you’ve got to go win the next one.”
That’s getting a little too far ahead, but 
it speaks to the importance of this game for 
this season. Nevertheless, leading up to the 
game, the streak has been the focus. 
Greg Nord, UF’s special teams coordina-
tor and tight ends coach, was a coach at Ken-tucky the last time UK beat UF — the year 
was 1986 — and played for the school before 
that. 
“I don’t know if I had any kids yet or not,” 
he said of that victory, “and (now) I’ve got 
grandkids. So it’s been a long time … there 
haven’t been a lot of happy Wildcats when the Gators come into town.”
So far, though, Kentucky has been a sexy 
pick to win the game and break the streak. 
The Wildcats boast an SEC-best run de-
fense, they’re 3-0 and their home stadium — Kroger Field — sold out for the ﬁ  rst time in two years. 
Florida players, however, say they don't 
care. 
“We treat every game as the most impor-
tant game of the season,” safety Nick Wash-ington said. 
“We take every game one-by-one,” defen-
sive lineman Luke Ancrum said. “We’re focusing on staying locked in,” 
linebacker Jeremiah Moon said. 
Last year before playing Tennessee, some 
UF players felt the same about the streak over the Volunteers as Washington, Ancrum and Moon did. But after the game, their dis-appointment in losing it was obvious. 
“It’s been 11 years since we’ve lost to 
them,” then-linebacker Alex Anzalone said after the game, “and to be the team that lost this game really hurts. But we know we have a really long season ahead of us. No national 
championship team at UF has ever went un-
defeated, so this is a time that we can really just come together and be better as a team.”
That last part doesn’t apply in this case, 
because no UF team has ever lost two games 
and won a national championship either. So 
aside from the streak being on the line, this time the team’s postseason hopes likely are as well. 
That’s not ideal, because McElwain’s 
record in true road games in his three-plus seasons at Florida is 5-4. His record at home is 12-1. But despite those numbers, he said he loves road games, and whether there’s a 
streak, conference standing or title aspira-
tions at stake, he expects that road record to improve on Saturday. 
“I don’t know how you can’t love it,” he 
said of opposing fans hissing and jeering, “and I don’t know how you don’t play better on the road.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14 UF vs. UK slated for Saturday
defenders with Texas A&M’s goalie charging, Rose let the pass bounce twice, putting a foot to 
the ball and causing an Aggie de-
fender and the goalie to collide with each other. Rose’s chip took a soft hop into the side netting to 
tie the match at one apiece.But that would be as close as 
the Gators came to upending the 
Aggies all night. Constant pres-sure and double teams on defense forced UF off the ball on many occasions. Though each team had 
eight shots at halftime, the Texas 
A&M defense seemed to suffocate any potential Florida attack. 
Coach Becky Burleigh said her 
offense wasn’t consistent in con-trolling the ball.
“The toughest part of that 
game was getting the ball to the ground,” Burleigh said in a re-lease. “Then we didn’t do a good enough job of keeping it once it 
got on the ground.”
Even with her mistake in the 
second half, Marckese contrib-
uted her fair share to the Gators’ 
effort. The junior from St. Peters-burg recorded six saves, often 
diving and sprawling out to ex-treme ends to keep her net clear. 
The Texas A&M win gives it 
the slight edge in a budding ri-
valry with Florida. 
The Aggies are now 7-6 all 
time against the Gators, with the 
teams exchanging wins and loss-
es for the past three games. The 
last ﬁ  ve matchups have been one-goal games. 
“You have to give credit to 
A&M for being really disruptive,” Burleigh said. “They kept playing a lot of long balls and the game was really physical. I’m sure that is something we will see again so it will be a good learning experi-
ence.”
The Gators return home to 
face Alabama on Sunday night at 
James G. Pressly Stadium. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
SOCCER,  from pg. 14UF gives up two goals to Texas A&MMax Chesnes / Alligator
Gators safety Nick Washington isn't taking UF's matchup with Kentucky for granted. 
"We treat every game as the most important game of the season, " Washington said. 
