We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 124 THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
Florida football embraces QB battle
The Gators will have to choose 
between freshmen, pg. 14
UF students safe after London attack
A man injured 40 people and killed four on Wednesday, pg. 5
We the Kings coming to town on Wednesday
The band will perform at Gainesville’s High Dive, pg. 7FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Michael Che, a cast member of “Saturday Night Live, ” performs stand-up comedy at UF’s O’Connell Center on Wednesday night. Che and fellow cast member Kenan Thompson were paid $100,000 for the show, hosted by the Accent Speakers Bureau.
A GOFUNDME PAGE WAS 
CREATED TO HELP PAY 
FOR HIS MEDICAL BILLS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer 
Outside Joe Steven Vincent 
Wagner’s hospital room, the wait-ing room is never empty.
Delta Chi fraternity brothers 
take turns in UF Health Shands Hospital: sitting in the waiting room chairs, updating a GoFundMe to raise money and praying. His sister, Joann Lea, waits for medical 
updates, hoping her brother will 
wake up.
They’ve waited in the hospi-
tal since Monday after Wagner, a UF engineering ﬁ  fth-year student, 
was hit by a car while driving his 
orange Kawasaki motorcycle just 
before noon Monday near Shands. 
Wagner, who was not wearing a 
helmet at the time of the crash, remains uncon-
scious with brain swelling.
“It was the 
most gruesome 
and heart-break-
ing sight,” Joann Lea Wagner 
said. “I had nev-
er seen him so broken.”
The GoFundMe page, intended 
to raise money for Wagner’s medi-cal bills and the cost of his family’s travel to Gainesville, has received 
$16,876 in donations as of press time. And while doctors say the 
23-year-old 6-foot-5, 220 pound 
student will make a full recovery, 
he has yet to regain consciousness 
since the crash.
As soon as Wagner’s Delta Chi 
brothers heard what happened, they rushed to the hospital.
Andrew O’Neill, one of the ﬁ  rst 
brothers to arrive, said at one point 
up to 50 Delta Chi brothers were in the waiting room to show their 
support.
“We are still staying positive 
that he will make a full recovery from this,” O’Neill said.
After they realized they didn’t 
want to cause an inconvenience to the medical staff in Intensive Care, 
the Delta Chi brothers took shifts 
to stay in the waiting room and 
support Wagner’s sister. About 20 
to 25 brothers are waiting at any  UF student in hospital after crash; frat brothers fundraise
MICHAEL CHE DIRECTED 
SOME JOKES AT STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
In the last 15 minutes of Mi-
chael Che’s standup act, he turned his full attention to the front row, where key members of UF’s Student Government were sitting.
Che, a “Saturday Night Live” 
cast member who came to campus Wednesday night as part of the Accent Speakers Bureau’s event with fellow cast member Kenan Thompson, asked the front-row audience of the O’Connell Center, including Student Body President-elect Smith Meyers and Senate Pro-Tempore Trevor Schaettle, what kind of porn they watched and who they voted for. 
Then he got political, asking 
the students who they voted for in the 2016 presidential election.
“There’s only two answers 
when you ask a white guy who he voted for,” Che said. “Hillary Clinton or ‘Oh I don’t really wan-na talk about that.’”
Though Che got personal with 
the crowd — he implied Schaet-tle was sexting and that he and 
Meyers were old enough to go to 
jail — Schaettle said he thought it was hilarious.
“I get it, it’s a comedy,” 
Schaettle said. “I didn’t take per- ‘SNL’ comedian pokes 
fun at Smith Meyers
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County is the only coun-
ty in Florida singled out for failing to 
comply with federal requests to de-tain non-native arrestees after the re-lease of a Department of Homeland Security report. 
While the Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce cannot enforce immigra-tion laws, jail personnel are asked to notify the department when some-one arrested on local charges was not born in the U.S. and detain them for about 48 hours until Immigration and Customs Enforcement ofﬁ  cials have reviewed his or her case for de-portation. 
But Sheriff Sadie Darnell decided 
that while deputies and jail person-nel will notify ICE about any arrests, 
the ofﬁ  ce will not hold the arrestee 
until ICE arrives.
“We are doing nothing differ-
ent than the other law enforcement agencies that are set forth in place by 
the courts, and they have all found 
that holding someone after they’ve 
satisﬁ  ed the court is illegal,” ACSO 
spokesperson Art Forgey said. “It’s illegal search and seizure.”As a result of Darnell’s decision, 
Alachua County was the only Florida county listed on the ICE’s ﬁ  rst De-
clined Detainer Outcome Report for 
the week of Jan. 28 to Feb. 3, with ﬁ  ve declined detainer requests.
The purpose of the report is “to 
highlight jurisdictions that choose 
not to cooperate with ICE detainers  Alachua County makes federal list over immigrationSEE MOTORCYCLE,  PAGE 4
SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4
SEE IMMIGRATION,  PAGE 4Trump’s order made the list publicWagner
“I get it, it’s a comedy. I didn’t 
take personal ofense to them.”
Trevor Schaettle
Senate Pro-T emporeCAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  71° LOW  53°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF’s University Galleries 
presents the MFA Thesis 
Candidates Exhibition IThe University Gallery is pleased to present the Master of Fine Arts 
Thesis Candidates Exhibition I 
today through Friday. The exhi-bition features artwork by grad-uating UF MFA students. Media represented includes graphic design, ceramics, installation, painting, printmaking, sculpture and video. The exhibition and opening reception are free and 
open to the public. Participants 
include Brianna Angelakis, Bridget Jeanne Hogan Fairbank, Ashley Fuchs, Brielle Jenkins and Megan Paige Ward.
‘Pity for the Wild: Three 
Grotesques’ by Tennessee Williams
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance presents a “grotesque version” of Tennessee Williams’ “Pity for the Wild: Three Grotesques” until Sunday. This production features three works by the playwright, who is often considered one of America’s finest. The works, “The Chalky 
White Substance,” “Something 
Unspoken” and “The Gnädiges Fräulein,” reintroduce audienc-es to Williams as a playwright of the grotesque, where unfor-gettable characters struggle for equilibrium in worlds interde-pendent of horror and laughter. These plays are quite unlike the 
Williams most people are ac-
customed to. Directed by Tiza Garland and Ralf Remshardt, tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for seniors, UF faculty and staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More 
information is available at arts.
ufl.edu.
University Galleries presents: 
‘Currents 2017’University Galleries and student organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present “Currents 2017 Perception: Color and 
Content” in the Gary R. Libby 
Gallery from now until April 19. There will be an opening recep-tion March 30 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. “Currents” is an annual national juried exhibi-tion co-juried by Linda Lopez and Katie Parker. “Perception: Color and Content” is themati-
cally focused on the idea of how 
perception of color can change the way content is perceived. This important annual exhibi-tion selects jurors and addresses contemporary themes in ceram-ic art. “Currents 2017” will ex-pand the educational experience for students within UF’s School of Art + Art History and en-
gage the public with color and 
content within contemporary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening reception are free and open to the public.
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango 
Club for free tango classes at 
all levels, including first-time dancers. Classes will take place in Dance Studio A in the Reitz Union on Sundays. The begin-ners class will start at 6:15 p.m., followed by an intermediate/ad-vanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special 
shoes are necessary. Jazz, bal-
let, salsa shoes or even a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Our Fake Democracy
On March 29 at 6:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room G320, 
Democracy Matters UF is orga-
nizing an event called Our Fake Democracy, where there will be a panel discussion on non-par-tisan democratic values and in-stitutions that are under attack and are currently eroding in contemporary times. These in-stitutions include voting rights, 
obstructionism and big money 
in politics. The panel will in-clude a student, professor and community activist. Afterward there will be action tables where participants can move and act on the democratic institutions the panel discussed. People can call or write their representa-
tives, sign petitions and join 
other political organizations.
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week, April 3 to April 7The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s Second Annual Graduate Student Appreciation Week. This week-
long event is designed to cel-
ebrate the accomplishments and contributions of more than 12,000 UF graduate stu-dents. The week will show-case the work of UF’s gradu-ate students and highlight the services they provide to the university and the community 
through research, teaching 
and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, Graduate Wellness Day with the Counseling & Wellness Center, professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student orga-nization showcase, an ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring game. To learn more, please vis-
it graduateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as 
Connecting the Living to the DeadA historian of the Islamic world, France and medicine from McMaster University will give a 
free public lecture April 6 at 5:30 
p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Ellen Amster will discuss the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in precolonial Morocco. For Muslim pilgrims visiting the tombs of the saints, these holy bodies offered cures by linking heaven and earth. 
These traditions and beliefs 
were challenged by French colo-nialism and notions of science in the late 19th century and early 20th century. This event is the seventh in an eight-part series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars 
and filmmakers explore unique 
cultural and historical confron-tations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION: 
In an article published Wednesday titled “UF to offer ‘Living Learning Community’ for black students,” the Alligator incorrectly reported the Black 
Student Affairs Task Force was 
a student group. The task force is comprised of faculty, staff and students.VOLUME 111 ISSUE 124
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
24-HOUR GIVING CHALLENGE
March 29–30 · TheAmazingGive.org
ANIMALS
Alachua County Humane Society, Gainesville Pet Rescue, Gentle Carousel Miniature 
Therapy Horses, Haile’s Angels Pet Rescue, Helping Hands Pet Rescue, HOrses Helping PEople (HOPE), Operation Catnip, South West Florida Horse Rescue, Inc.
ARTS AND CULTURE
Active Streets Alliance, Cade Museum for Creativity + Invention, Dance Alive National Ballet, Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Civic Chorus, Gainesville Youth 
Chorus, Inc., The Hippodrome Theatre
COMMUNITY ADVOCACY
31-32 Foundation, Inc., Active for Recovery, Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health 
Coalition, Alachua Habitat for Humanity, Basketball Cop Foundation, Catholic Charities Gainesville, Center for Independent Living of North Central Florida, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Community Weatherization Coalition, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Friends of T acachale, Gainesville Opportunity Center, Gainesville Police 
Department, Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation (NHDC), Partnership 
for Strong Families, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, Southwest Advocacy Group (SWAG), South West Florida Horse Rescue, Inc., The Guardian Foundation, Inc.
EDUCATION
The Independent Florida Alligator, 31-32 Foundation, Inc., Aces in Motion, AMIkids Gainesville, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Cade Museum for Creativity + Invention, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Dance Alive National Ballet, Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Black Professionals, Gainesville Youth Chorus, Inc., Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls Place, Inc., Healthy Families ACUB, Junior Achievement of Alachua County, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation (NHDC), North Florida Founda-tion for Research and Education, Inc., Operation Catnip, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rabel, Inc., Southern Legal Council, Inc., Southwest Advo-cacy Group (SWAG), The Einstein School, The Hippodrome Theatre, United Way of North Central Florida
EMERGENCY RESPONSE
Gainesville Police Department, HeartSafe City Foundation
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Active Streets Alliance, Gainesville Black Professionals, Junior Achievement of Alachua County
ENVIRONMENT
Community Weatherization Coalition, We Are Neutral
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
Aces in Motion, ACORN Clinic, Active for Recovery, Active Streets Alliance, Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, Girls on the Run of Alachua County, Healthy Families ACUB, Meridian Behavioral Healthcare, NAMI Gainesville, North Florida Foundation for Research and Education, Inc., Penny Box App Giving Fund, Rebuilding T ogether North Central Florida, Ronald McDonald House Charities of North Central Florida, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rabel, Inc., Southwest Advocacy Group (SWAG), Stop Children’s Cancer, Inc., The Climb for Cancer Foundation, United Way of North Central Florida, Westside Samaritans Clinic 
HOMELESSNESS AND HOUSING
Alachua Habitat for Humanity, Catholic Charities Gainesville, Community Weatheriza-tion Coalition, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, GRACE, Neighborhood Housing Development Corporation (NHDC), Penny Box App Giving Fund, Rebuilding T ogether North Central Florida, Southern Legal Coun-cil, Inc.
POVERTY AND HUNGER
Catholic Charities Gainesville, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Gainesville Opportunity Center, GRACE, Junior League of Gainesville, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., Penny Box App Giving Fund, Saint John the Baptist - Jean Rebel, Inc., United Way of North Central Florida
SENIORS
Friends of T acachale, Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses
SOCIAL JUSTICE
Active For Recovery, Basketball Cop Foundation, Center for Independent Living of North Central Florida, Gainesville Opportunity Center, Gainesville Police Department, GRACE, Partnership for Strong Families, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, South Legal Council, Inc., The Guardian Foundation, Inc.
VETERANS
Gainesville Fisher House Foundation, HOrses Helping PEople (HOPE), North Florida Foundation for Research and Education, Inc.
WOMEN’S ISSUES
Alachua County  Perinatal Mental Health Coalition, A Mother’s Hope, Inc., Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls Place, Inc., Healthy Families ACUB, Junior League of Gainesville, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network
YOUTH
31-31 Foundation, Aces In Motion, AMIkids Gainesville, Basketball Cop Foundation, Boys and Girls Club of Alachua County, Children’s Home Society of Florida, Dance Alive National Ballet, Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, Family Promise of Gainesville, Florida, Inc., Friends of Elementary Arts, Inc., Gainesville Youth Chorus, Inc., Gentle Carousel Miniature Therapy Horses, Girl Scouts of Gateway Council, Girls on the Run of Alachua County, Girls Place, Inc. HOrses Helping PEople (HOPE), Junior Achievement of Alachua County, Junior League of Gainesville, Kids Count in Alachua County, Inc., NAMI Gaines-ville, PACE Center for Girls Alachua, Partnership for Strong Families, River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, South West Florida Horse Rescue, Inc., Stop Children’s Cancer, Inc., The Einstein School, The Guardian Foundation, Inc.4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Every basketball game, Ka-
lie Laughlin stands and screams 
along with Rowdy Reptiles dressed 
in orange and blue bodysuits. 
As the UF men’s basketball 
team advances in March Madness, 
the group wants to reclaim their 
own title as student section of the 
year in the National Collegiate Stu-
dent Section Association’s compe-tition. The Rowdy Reptiles, the UF men’s basketball student fan group, won last year and are cur-rently in the “Sweet 16” level of 
the tournament, said Jake Kilgore, 
the group’s vice president.
Laughlin, a 22-year-old UF 
marine science senior and the organization’s treasurer, said the 
winning team is determined by 
popular vote, and people can vote once every 24 hours. Vote count resets with the advancement to each round. 
In Laughlin’s opinion, the 
Rowdy Reptiles are the best stu-dent section in the nation.
“We’re as hype as it comes 
when it comes to sports,” she said.
Kilgore, a 20-year-old UF busi-
ness administration junior, said 
last year’s win came with a trophy 
and $1,000, which the group used to create a banner for the first home game. This year the winner receives $1,500.
“I think being a part of the Row-
dy Reptiles and the men’s basket-ball games isn’t really something 
you can put into words,” Kilgore 
said. “I always tell people it’s the biggest culmination of Gator spirit on campus.”
Laughlin said the team fre-
quently holds up banners, paints their bodies and works to intimi-date the opposing group to help the Gators win. She said one member of the 
group is assigned to research ev-erything about the other team, in-cluding players’ hometowns and 
names of family, to add to the in-
timidation.
“Ultimately the team decides 
the outcome of the game, but we try to help them in winning,” 
Laughlin said. 
           
@romyellenbogen 
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Rowdy Reptiles hope to win student section of the year
given time, O’Neill said.
For Joann Lea Wagner, the 
question is just whether her broth-
er will be able to run and swim the 
way he used to.
“We have nothing, but faith and 
hope that Joe will pull through,” 
she said.
While sitting in the waiting 
room, Kevin Hilton, 21, said he felt helpless. The UF accounting junior created the GoFundMe page and said it was the least he could do for someone he considers family.
“Joe’s genuinely one of the nic-
est people you could meet,” Hilton said.
O’Neill said Wagner is one of 
the brothers younger members look up to.
“Joe is an extremely kindheart-
ed person,” O’Neill said. “He can turn any room into a positive one. I know he wouldn’t want us suffer-ing now.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgMOTORCYCLE,  from pg. 1$16,876 has been raised
sonal offense to them, I took no harm to it whatsoever.”
At one point, Che discussed 
how difficult it could be to tell jokes to a college crowd. He men-tioned that the people up front were adults who could drink, go to war or go to jail. When he mentioned prison, members of the crowd of more than 3,000 laughed or gasped. 
“This guy could go to prison,” 
Che said, gesturing toward Mey-ers and Schaettle. “Like, adult prison.”
Che and Thompson were paid 
a combined $100,000, according 
to Alligator archives. Both per-
formed a half hour of standup comedy and participated in a question and answer period mod-erated by New York Times cul-
ture writer Dave Itzkoff.
Fifteen minutes before the 
doors to the show opened, the 
line of students wrapped around to neighboring Tolbert Hall. Mia 
Lestorti, a 20-year-old UF graphic 
design sophomore, said she lined 
up for the free event first at 3 p.m. 
“I just figured if I was gonna see them and wait in line, I want to be as close as possible,” Lestor-
ti said. 
Though Lestorti said she was a 
big fan of SNL and the sketches, 
she was excited to hear the ques-tion and answer portion. 
“You really only get to see 
their characters, so I’d like to see them as people as well,” she said. 
Shane Poole, a 31-year-old Sante Fe College business, finance and accounting sophomore, said 
he didn’t mind political comedy. 
“The thing I like about SNL the 
most is the comedic spin they put 
on real-life issues,” Poole said.
“Comedy is that barrier where 
you can talk about anything and 
it not be uncomfortable.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
ACCENT,  from pg. 1About 3,000 students attended the event at the O’Connell Centeror requests for notification,” according to an ICE press 
release. The report is made public as part of President Donald Trump’s public safety executive order. The de-tainer serves as a request from ICE to detain the person 
in question, and there is no legal penalty if local law 
enforcement does not agree with the detainer. 
For the reported week, Alachua County was at the 
bottom of the list, tied with Franklin County, Iowa, and 
Franklin County, Pennsylvania, with five. Clark Coun-
ty, Nevada, had the most, with 51 denied detainers. 
The ICE report noted that because of the counties’ 
individual polices, they expect all detainers to be de-
nied but will continue to issue the detainers regardless.  
Alachua County’s policy has been in place since 
September 2015, and it leaves the decision up to the 
sheriff currently in office. Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe said he is in full sup-
port of Darnell’s decision.
“What the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office is doing 
is following the Constitution and the law,” Poe said. 
“She (Darnell) made it pretty clear that to hold people beyond the 48 hours that is due under habeas corpus is a violation of people’s Fourth Amendment rights.”
Gainesville Police spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias 
wrote in an email that city police will not focus on im-migration status when making local arrests. Local of-ficers will only make arrests on behalf of ICE if issued a criminal warrant. 
“The Gainesville Police Department has not partici-
pated in nor are we aware of any type of ‘raid’ to seek out and take into custody individuals solely based on their immigration status,” Tobias wrote. 
                                                     @molly_vossler 
mvossler@alligator.orgIMMIGRATION,  from pg. 1Mayor Poe supports Darnell’s choice
“He can turn any room into a 
positive one.”
Andrew O’Neill
UF studentTHURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students studying abroad in Lon-
don are safe after an attack at the Houses 
of Parliament on Wednesday, university ofﬁ  cials said.
The BBC reported an unnamed man 
injured 40 people and killed three when he drove a car into a crowd of pedestri-ans on the Westminster Bridge. Pedestri-ans included a group of French school-
children and English university students, 
according to eyewitness reports. He got out of the car and continued on foot when he crashed into railing outside of the Houses of Parliament. 
Armed with a knife, the attacker ran 
toward a House of Parliament and fatally stabbed an unarmed Metropolitan Police ofﬁ  cer outside the building before he was shot dead by multiple ofﬁ  cers, according to the BBC. Although the identify of the attacker is unknown, British police told CNN they suspect he was a terrorist.
After the attack, UF sent an email to 
27 students in the city, including 24 who were participating in UF’s study abroad program in London. UF spokesperson Ja-nine Sikes conﬁ  rmed the students were safe in an email.
“There is no indication of any ongoing danger in London after this attack, but 
we will continue to monitor,” Sikes said.
Emily Stolberg, a 21-year-old UF pub-
lic relations junior, was in her apart-
ment in London when she saw the news. Friends and family in the states texted 
Stolberg to make sure she was safe. “It was pretty scary,” she said. “I 
didn’t know how big of a deal it was at 
ﬁ  rst. It was more reassuring that I know 
no one I knew was hurt.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
 UF students safe after attack in London
Stefan Rousseau / PA via AP
Conservative Member of Parliament T obias Ellwood, center, helps emergency services attend to an injured person outside the Houses of Parliament in London on Wednesday afternoon. London police said they were treating a gun and knife incident at Britain’s Parliament “as a terrorist incident until we know otherwise. ”
THE TEDMED EVENT WILL FOCUS ON 
HEALTH AND MEDICINE.
By Jessica Finkel
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF professor will help determine speakers for a 
large TED conference this November in California. 
Joshua Brown, a UF professor of pharmaceutical 
outcomes and policy, was announced as a 2017 TED-
MED Research Scholar in March, he said. With his ap-
plication to be a scholar accepted, Brown will spend 
the months until the conference helping select speakers for the yearly event, which brings together about 50 speakers to discuss how to make the world healthier, according to the conference’s website.  
Attending the California conference costs about 
$5,000, according to the website. 
Brown, along with 41 other scholars, will act as a 
peer reviewer of the potential speakers, he said. Speak-
ers who apply and audition must have a unique per-
spective on their topic focusing on health and medicine.   
“Being chosen is quite an honor,” Brown said. 
“When you think about the popularity of TED talks and the potential inﬂ  uence these have on the public, it in-stills a sense of pride and responsibility to take vetting these nominees quite seriously.” 
Brown said he is in charge of choosing speakers to 
talk about health economics and outcomes. 
He said each scholar reviews potential speakers 
independently in order to keep from swaying others’ opinions.
“TEDMED is an opportunity for thinkers, not poli-
ticians, to exchange ideas and network,” Brown said. 
Alex Touchton, a curator for TEDx at UF, a student 
organization that brings a TED-style conference to UF every year, said he’s excited for the opportunities this could provide for students. 
“It’s incredible to have someone from UF selected 
for this,” the 22-year-old UF chemistry senior said. “It fulﬁ  lls what I try to do on a daily basis by sharing and spreading ideas through TED.” 
By working with the conference, Brown said he 
hopes to show students that change can be made by younger individuals. Many of the potential speakers are young professionals who are still developing their ca-reers and starting out in leadership roles. 
“The willingness to listen to someone else’s ideas 
for just 10 minutes in a TED Talk may have a long-last-ing inﬂ  uence on health and medicine as these people transition to being leaders and experts,” Brown said.  UF professor to 
help choose 
Ted speakersBy Isa Perez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s part-time and full-time master’s 
of business programs are among the top 
in the nation.
The U.S. News and World Report re-
leased a ranking March 14, naming two of 
UF’s Hough Graduate School of Business  
programs in its Best Graduate Schools list. The part-time master’s degree was ranked 20th overall, jumping eight spots 
from last year’s ranking, according to a 
UF news release. The full-time program was ranked 40th overall among public and private universities.
University of California — Berkeley’s 
Haas School of Business ranked No. 1 for part-time programs, according to the website. Harvard University and the Uni-versity of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School 
tied for ﬁ  rst in the full-time MBA ranking. 
Christopher Pryor, a UF entrepreneur-
ship professor at Warrington, said he 
believes the college received the ranking because of its ability to attract quality stu-dents and faculty from across the country.
“What happens in the classroom is im-
portant,” Pryor said, “but it really is all about the networking, placement and the 
opportunities for students to interact with 
professionals in the ﬁ  eld overall.”
John Kraft, the dean of Warrington, 
wrote in an email that he declined to com-ment about the speciﬁ  c ranking.
“We participate in over 100 rankings 
of faculty programs and brand,” Kraft said. “We are on average in the top 10 (Association of American Universities) publics for faculty, and in the top 20 AAU 
publics for programs.”
Randy Perez, a full-time UF master’s of 
business administration student studying 
ﬁ  nance and strategy, said he appreciates the programs are small enough for stu-dents to receive individual attention.
“Not only am I getting hands-on ex-
periences, but I am also getting access to one-on-one time with my professors,” he 
said.
Perez, 27, said the program should 
continue on its current upward track.
“If the program continues to promote 
top talent within its instructors and stu-
dents, it will make it’s way to the top,” Perez said. UF’s  MBA programs nationally rankedThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Fuchs: Thanks to the shepherds and leaders
The most important leader at a great 
research university is not the presi-dent. UF has about 1,000 administra-
tive entities with leaders, including de-
partments, schools, colleges, centers, 
institutes, programs and divisions. I hope to visit all of these entities while I am president, 
which will require I serve until I’m 90 years 
old, longer than Presidents Albert Murphree and John Tigert.
Last weekend, I spoke to a national meet-
ing of electrical and computer engineering department 
chairs.
Three hundred universities have such departments. 
The leaders of those departments are responsible for 
their departments’ faculty, students, staff, curriculum, research, budget, alumni and facilities.
It is a challenging job — I know from ﬁ  rsthand ex-
perience.
For six years, I served as Purdue University’s elec-
trical and computer engineering department chair (the 
school head at Purdue). Those six years were the most 
difﬁ  cult of my life. Because of the weight of responsibil-ity, I often couldn’t sleep at night, and after napping for a few hours, would go into the ofﬁ  ce at 4 a.m., still exhausted, to work on my administrative duties. I was 
convinced for the ﬁ  rst several years I had ruined my career, since I gave up much of my research 
and teaching to serve as chair.
I’m so very grateful for all the leaders across 
our campus, but I have an especially soft spot in my heart for the chairs of UF’s roughly 120 academic departments. They are responsible for recruiting and supporting faculty, the suc-
cess of the students in their departments and 
the overall stature of their department, which directly affects our ranking as a university.
Communication was the subject of my 
hourlong address at the department chairs national 
meeting. I shared the lessons I am learning about com-
munication. I encouraged the department chairs to work to reach the hearts — not just the minds — of their stu-dents and alumni. I shared a photo of Century Tower lit 
with rainbow colors after the Pulse nightclub massacre 
last summer.
I talked about my successes and failures in being per-
sonal and not presidential in communication, and how being accessible and simply listening is often more im-
portant than what I say or write. I shared our plans for 
the historic town hall that was held Monday night.
Finally, I encouraged the chairs to communicate pur-
poseful fun, something I failed to do as a department 
chair. They laughed at the videos making fun of the 
president’s ofﬁ  ce, and my horrible dancing as Darth Va-der, and our April Fools’ Day pranks seen by millions.
UF is blessed with exceptional leaders across all ar-
eas of our university. I am particularly grateful for the 
academic department chairs who aren’t always appreci-
ated, but who are heroic in their work as shepherds and leaders. Thank you.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. His column appears 
monthly.
Stop trying to turn 
international attacks 
into personal ones
A gruesome attack happened in London on Wednesday, 
leaving ﬁ  ve dead and dozens more injured. It is a horri-ble, tragic event that occurred, despite increased security measures throughout Europe in the recent years. There’s a lot to take in. In the past two or three years, Europe has 
been struck by frequent terror attacks. The strategy behind this one — using a vehicle and then a knife to attack law enforcement ofﬁ  cers — is described by the British security service as a “ma-rauding attack,” something they have been preparing for. The British ofﬁ  cers were able to stop the attacker, and Scotland Yard is now working on protecting the city as well as investigating the attack as a whole.
Now there’s a lot — which is frankly an understatement — 
one could go into when analyzing terror attacks in Europe, taking into account socio-political relations, historical connotations, cur-rent politics and security, media focus on Western-centric events, the preparedness of the police force … the list goes on. It was hard to narrow down just one talking point.
But while trying to ﬁ  nd something worth delving into and ex-
ploring, we found a host of Americans making this international issue about themselves.
We’re not saying all Americans do this, but it’s worth noting 
that the ones who do are loud, proud and project themselves as the voice of our country. 
For some reason, there’s a group of people out there who are 
trying to make this terror attack in the U.K. about American gun control policies. There are groups saying this terror attack in Lon-don is anti-American. There are groups saying if this happened in good old ‘Murica, the police would’ve shot the guy down before he had a chance to hurt anybody. There are groups using this as an excuse to project hate toward an entire religion, even though currently, there is no evidence as to whether this attack was mo-tivated by religious or cultural beliefs.
There’s a global stigma that Americans are self-centered and 
uninformed. We’d like to think that’s not the case, that most of us are open-minded, aware of the world around us and understand the world is not centered around the U.S. But then events like this happen, events that occur in other countries involving complex foreign policies and situations, and instead of offering solidarity and compassion, some Americans like to stick their ﬁ  st in the air and claim that we could do it better, claim that this problem involves us, claim that we know how to ﬁ  x it. 
And for whatever reason, the Facebook search algorithm de-
cides to highlight and amplify these people’s voices. It’s no won-der the rest of the world thinks we’re narcissistic idiots. 
We don’t know how to ﬁ  x problems in foreign countries. We 
should stop pretending we do. We should stop making tragic in-ternational events about whatever hot-button issue is affecting America. Because the fact of the matter is that right now, it’s not about us. It’s about London. It’s about the U.K. It’s about Europe. It might affect us, sure — in terms of business, travel and politics. We can offer sympathy, compassion, support and aid. But it’s important to realize that this attack — and all the other attacks in Europe — are not about America, and therefore, we should not make those issues about us.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORGuest column
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“UF is blessed with 
exceptional leaders across all 
areas of our university.”Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Musician Zach Deputy to perform in GNV
He will play at Heartwood Soundstage, pg. 10THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
New music isn’t always good music
Which new releases to avoid, pg. 9By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
We The Kings reached fame 
in 2007 with their self-titled full 
length album, and 10 years lat-
er, the band is back without too 
many changes.
“It’s very nostalgic seeing a 
lot of familiar faces,” said Hunter 
Thomsen, the lead guitarist for 
the band. “It deﬁ  nitely feels a lot different. We all have beer guts and s---, but we still have the same kind of feeling we had when 
we wrote the songs and played 
them for the ﬁ  rst time.”
We The Kings will be hitting 
High Dive on Wednesday night 
with Cute Is What We Aim For, 
Plaid Brixx and Astro Lasso.
Although most rock bands go 
downhill after reaching celebrity status, We The Kings managed to 
continue being best friends and 
bandmates.
“It’s like with any family, you 
have obvious high points and low 
points,” Thomsen said. “We’re all 
thrust together living in a 75-foot rectangle, and it’s tough being away from girlfriends and kids, but it’s a passion and fans that keep us coming back.”
We The Kings started playing 
music in their hometown of Bra-denton, Florida, in high school. Travis Clark, Hunter Thomsen, Drew Thomsen and Danny Dun-can were the original four mem-
bers of the band.
Friends since childhood, they 
wanted to pursue their dreams 
together.
Despite their music style 
changing and having to relearn some of the songs for the tour, the band couldn’t be happier to bring back the album that started 
their career, Thomsen said.
“We’re a little slower with our 
rhythm, but it’s great going back 
to where we started,” he said.
Their “10” tour, celebrating 
a decade since their ﬁ  rst album, has been a success so far, Thom-sen said. 
The band played in Anaheim, 
California, last week with Wu-Tang Clan playing in the next room.
“I took my shirt off because 
I was pretty excited about that during the show,” Thomsen said. “Stuff like that doesn’t happen every day, but there’s a lot of average everyday stuff going on 
too.”
He said it’s the support of the 
fans and how receptive they are 
that makes touring all worth it.
“We got a great crew and sup-
port bands with us on tour,” he said. “It’s been a lot of fun, and we got a couple weeks left to con-tinue the success (of the tour).”
When asked about plans for 
the band after their tour, Thom-sen mentioned shows in Europe and one in Hawaii. 
“After that, who knows?” he 
said. Outside of Gainesville, the band will also play Florida shows in Tallahassee, Tampa, Orlando 
and Fort Lauderdale.
Tickets starting at $25 are still 
available online at ticketﬂ  y.com 
and at the High Dive Box Ofﬁ  ce. 
They will also be sold at the door 
for $28. 
 Doors will open at 7 p.m., and 
the show will start at 8 p.m.
“We’re gonna be playing all 
the hits and more at the show,” Thomsen said. “We might even play some songs twice, you never know.”We The Kings bring 10-year 
anniversary tour to High Dive
MUSIC
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
This weekend, the Hippo-
drome State Theatre will host a 
Cuban ﬁ  lm festival downtown. 
The festival, which runs from 
Friday at 6 p.m. until Sunday at 7 p.m., will feature three Cu-ban ﬁ  lms: “Before Night Falls,” “Cicho and Rita” and “Playing 
Lecuona;” a biopic, animated ﬁ  lm 
and music documentary, respec-tively.
This weekend’s ﬁ  lm festival 
is presented by Bulla Cubana, a 
new Gainesville organization that 
has put on events to celebrate Cu-ban culture since January. Bulla Cubana will have events running until March 31 that include ﬁ  lm 
screenings, art exhibitions, food 
and drink specials and academic conferences. 
“The project started on Jan. 
6 at the University Gallery, and 
it will end on March 31 at the 
Whiskey House with a mojito celebration,” said Randy Batista, the project organizer. “There are 
numerous events between now 
and then, like conferences at the university, and Sweet Dreams, which is a local ice cream shop, will be featuring Cuban ﬂ  avored 
ice creams in the last week in 
March.”
Bulla Cubana’s intent in put-ting on these events is to share Cuban culture with Gainesville 
residents. 
Though there are plenty of res-
idents with Cuban backgrounds, 
there are many who are not so fa-miliar with Cuban art, ﬁ  lms and 
food. 
Bulla Cubana works to bring 
more awareness and appreciation 
of Cuban culture to Gainesville. 
“What we do is about show-
casing the unique talents of Cu-ban artists,” Batista said. “We decided to run all of these Cuban-inspired events to give people an 
opportunity to dabble in different 
Cuban culture over the span of three months.”Several of the events Bulla Cu-
bana put on and will put on this 
year include Cuban Americans 
sharing their own work and expe-riences in person. 
In January, Cuban pianist Je-
sus “Chuchito” Valdes performed 
at Santa Fe College. 
On March 18, Gainesville resi-
dent and Cuban native Raul Vil-
larreal told of his father’s experi-
ence working as a groundskeeper 
in Ernest Hemingway’s Cuban home. 
On Saturday at 10:30 a.m., Cu-
ban photographer Ernesto Reyes 
will give a gallery talk at the Hip-
podrome Gallery about his work.
“As a Cuban-American, I ap-preciate what Bulla Cubana is try-ing to do,” said Gainesville resi-
dent Eric Entenberg, 21. “A lot of 
Americans think Cuban culture is just about food, but there is much more to it than that.”
Entry into each ﬁ  lm will cost 
$9, and advance tickets can be bought on the Hippodrome’s website. 
“Before Night Falls” will show 
Friday at 6 p.m. and Saturday at 3:30 p.m.; “Chico and Rita” will show Friday at 8 p.m. and Sun-day at 7 p.m.; “Playing Lacuona” will show only on Saturday at 1 
p.m. A full schedule of the Cuban 
festival’s events are available on its website, bullacubana.org.
 Downtown Cuban ﬁ  lm festival celebrates music, culture
LOCAL8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
An identity crisis has never sounded 
so good. At this point in his career, Drake 
could rap the alphabet and it’d chart on the Billboard Hot 100. 
While “More Life” is described as a 
“playlist,” I’ll call it for what it is: an al-bum. It has its highs and lows, but there were a lot more lows than I expected from someone of Drake’s caliber.
“Free Smoke” is a strong start to the 
album and one of the better rap perfor-mances on “More Life,” but it’s not an indicator of the rest of the album. With Drake tapping into sounds from the U.K., Jamaica, Texas, Georgia and Canada, “More Life” feels like a trip around the world. It’s no secret Drake is a wave rid-
er: If there’s a new trend in hip-hop or an 
artist on the rise, chances are Drake will adopt it or collaborate with the artist. Another decent rap performance from 
Drake follows with “No Long Talk,” which is nearly ruined by Giggs’ verse, 
which could’ve been left off. Any cri-
tiques I have of “More Life” are put to the side when “Passionfruit” comes on. Sim-ply put, this song is a gem and easily one of the best songs Drake has ever made. 
My opinion of “More Life” may seem 
all over the place, but so is the album. Even though “Passionfruit” is amazing, it is a prime example of what Drake’s prob-
lem is: He has no identity. 
Sure, Drake can rap, sing, make dance-
hall records and take almost any style and 
make it his own, but as a fan, I feel like I don’t know who Drake is. Many artists will explain that they use music as their outlet to express themselves, but Drake constantly switching styles makes his music and personality feel forced, and it 
doesn’t seem genuine. 
“Gyalchester,” “Portland” and “Sacri-ﬁ  ces” are all bangers and deﬁ  nite high-
lights of “More Life,” but the second half of the album makes it unimpressive. 
“Nothing Into Somethings,” “Teenage Fe-
ver,” “Lose You” and “Can’t Have Every-thing” are all forgettable and sound like throwaways forced into the tracklist. 
As a whole, “More Life” is a decent al-
bum, but with Drake being as successful and talented as he is, “decent” isn’t how any of his projects should be described. 
Ever since Drake’s beef with Meek 
Mill, his rap has sounded defensive and overly aggressive, almost like he’s trying to prove to the world he can rap when we already know he can. It seems like almost every rap verse has subtle disses toward either Meek Mill or Tory Lanez.
Musically, Drake doesn’t have an iden-
tity, and it’s very apparent. If you’re look-ing for the album version of the movie 
“Split,” “More Life” is just the album for 
you.
Reviewing Drake’s latest: ‘More Life’ is an identity crisis
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer 
In the ﬁ  rst three months of 2017, 
we’ve seen amazing releases from 
artists like Drake, Ed Sheeran, Fu-ture and many more. However, 2017 has also already had some lackluster 
music. Here are some 2017 releases 
to keep off your playlist:
“It Ain’t Me” — Kygo feat. 
Selena Gomez
Following Selena Gomez’s accep-
tance speech at the 2016 American Music Awards, fans looked forward to her music representing her new, unapologetic approach at life and 
her craft. However, her collabora-
tion with electronic dance music art-ist Kygo only offered what we are all used to: a song about her love life.
Besides the unoriginal sub-
ject of the track, the mixing of the song just seemed sloppy, as if Kygo was attempting to give the song a psychedelic twist that just wasn’t 
there. The song would’ve been bet-
ter suited for artists like Tove Lo or Bebe Rexha, whose vocal ranges are wider and stronger than Gomez’s. If you want to get into Kygo’s music, I would suggest starting with his other hits like “Firestone” or “Stole the Show.” 
“Something Like This” — The 
Chainsmokers feat. Coldplay
If you are a fan of the summer 
2016 favorite “Closer” by the Chain-smokers, you will love their song with Coldplay — unless you were hoping for something different.
Premiering this epic collabora-
tion at the Brit Awards, fans were anticipating a seamless mesh of 
Coldplay’s uplifting lyrics and pow-
erful stage presence with the Chain-smokers’ catchy EDM beats. Sadly, they were left with deja vu.
Not only does the song mirror 
“Closer,” with both tracks having identical drops during the chorus, but it also has a strong resemblance to their other hit “Roses,” which was released in 2015. This rehash gives an impression that the Chain-smokers are sticking to their same formula in hopes of climbing the charts.
To get a dose of Chainsmokers, I 
suggest listening to their song “Par-is” instead; it’s not the EDM track of 2017, but at least it’s something “new-ish.”
“When I Was a Boy” — A 
Great Big World
Ed Sheeran’s new album “Di-
vide” raised the bar for all 2017 re-
leases in the pop genre, and the new 
track by singer-songwriter duo A Great Big World does not compete.
The duo, comprised of Ian Axel 
and Chad King, is most famous for 
their 2014 hit “Say Something,” 
which uses clean music to allow powerful lyrics to take center stage.
The duo recently released the 
track “When I Was a Boy,” attempt-ing to recreate the success of Lukas Graham’s hit track “7 Years.”
The song, which is told from a 
child’s perspective, tries to achieve 
the same feeling of nostalgia while 
complimenting the lyrics with com-plex and catchy music. However, the lyrics get lost in the overly com-plicated music.
Although A Great Big World at-
tempted to use their new release as a way to demonstrate their ﬂ  exibility as artists, this track took away from 
what they do best: writing songs. If 
you’re looking for a softer pop song, stay away from this track.
“Good Life” — G-Eazy feat. 
Kehlani
Movie soundtracks are an easy 
way for listeners to introduce them-selves to artists they are unfamiliar with. This collaboration by rapper G-Eazy and rhythm and blues singer Kehlani for the “Fate of the Furious” soundtrack just falls short.
The mixing used to accompany 
Khelani’s vocals does not blend 
well with the harshness of G-Eazy’s 
lyrics. The intro is meant to have a catchy, EDM-like tempo, but it merely sounds like a missed attempt at a Sean Paul-inspired sound. The track also falls short in showcasing G-Eazy’s ability as a legitimate rap-per.
If you’re looking for new mu-
sic, the “Fifty Shades Darker” soundtrack delivers a good variety.
New music isn’t always good music: Here’s what to skip10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Indie rock fans will be able to 
catch New Orleans-based band 
Generationals on Sunday at the High Dive as the band begins its spring 2017 tour.
Generationals, who describes 
its music as a mix of new wave and indie rock, will be playing alongside Baltimore-based band 
Raindeer on its tour.
Charlie Hughes, a singer-song-
writer and the creator of Raindeer, 
said that while the tour doesn’t 
ofﬁ  cially start until Friday, the 
band is already excited just getting 
ready to leave.
“It’s so great to be able to tour 
with a band as good as Genera-
tionals,” Hughes said. “It really 
makes a big difference playing 
with someone every night who you really respect.”
Raindeer was created by ac-
cident in 2010 when Hughes 
was originally doing a recording 
project that evolved into a fully formed band consisting of friends Hughes made while playing music 
over the years.
Hughes spoke fondly of his two 
other band members, Jason Iden, 
the bass player, and Jordan Good-man, the drummer. Hughes said the second anyone meets Iden, they immediately leach off his ex-citement and happiness. Hughes also said Goodman improves the band’s music mentally and soni-cally with his drumming.
Goodman, who had prior com-
mitments and couldn’t attend the 
tour, will be ﬁ  lled in by Kenny 
Fisher.
Hughes said that while Rain-
deer is excited to travel 15 hours to escape the Baltimore winter and explore Florida, this tour is much more than just a vacation. 
He said it’s about giving back to 
their audience through music.
“I hope anyone who sees us 
will just get a hint of what in-spires the music transferred into 
their heads,” Hughes said. “We let people space out for a while, 
and then maybe they get to dance, be sad, be happy and forget about 
their life for a little bit and be in 
the moment.”
Raindeer’s drive to provide 
positive vibes through its music is showcased through the band’s 
new album, “Neon Death.”“‘Neon Death’ is mainly fo-
cused on being happy with your-
self and not letting anyone inﬂ  u-
ence you too much,” Hughes said. 
“There are songs about friends 
being in abusive relationships and 
people who feel like they can’t be who they really are because of a 
fear of criticism or even violence. 
I want those people to be happy 
and have fun.”
Me-Sa Vu, a 20-year-old UF lin-
guistics sophomore who described herself as a High Dive frequenter, 
said she’s been wanting to see 
Generationals live ever since she discovered them a year ago, and High Dive is the perfect venue to 
see them.
“I just love the vibe of the High 
Dive and the feel of live music ver-
sus the studio version,” Vu said.
While Vu said she’s looking 
forward to hearing her favorite 
Generationals songs live, “When 
They Fight, They Fight” and “TenTwentyTen,” it’s not the only thing she’s excited about.
“To be honest, I’m really ex-
cited to take home a guitar pick or the set list,” Vu said. “I usually convince the band to give those to me. It’s sort of a collection.”
The concert opens at 8 p.m. 
and starts at 9 p.m. Tickets are $10 in advance and $12 at the door. Tickets can be bought in ad-vance from ticketﬂ  y.com or Hear Again Music.Indie bands Generationals, Raindeer to perform in GNV
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Generationals, an indie-rock band from New Orleans, will play at the High Dive on Sunday alongside Baltimore band Raindeer. Tickets are $10 in advance or $12 at the door of the show. 
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
South Carolina-based artist Zach 
Deputy will be bringing his talents 
to Gainesville with a concert at Heartwood Soundstage tonight.  
The show, which will be one of 
the many times Deputy has played in Gainesville, will take place from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Artists Andrew Fagin, Dillon Rose and Drew White will open the show. Tickets range from $12 to $20. 
The event will be one of the ﬁ  rst 
held at Heartwood Soundstage, a performance venue and recording studio that opened in Gainesville on Feb. 25. 
Deputy is known for his one-man 
shows, utilizing looping technology, instruments and vocals to create a unique experience for concertgo-ers. His funky, soulful sound comes to life onstage, something Deputy does effortlessly and with a constant 
smile. 
Deputy’s love for music is evi-
dent through every track performed, 
but it doesn’t stop there. 
His dedication goes so deep that 
he’s spent the past nine years tour-ing the country, and he doesn’t plan on slowing down anytime soon. This cycle began in 2008, when the 25-year-old Deputy decided to leave South Carolina and began touring around the U.S.  
“I made the conscious decision 
to go out there and try to see if I could get any attention across the country,” he said. “I went broke, and then I went broker so many times. Instead of giving up, I bor-rowed money from friends and just kept going and kept believing that it would work out.” 
Deputy said he still faces these 
struggles now, just in different ways. For him, money has nothing to do with it. 
“All the money that I make, I’ve 
invested it right back into my art,” he said. “I don’t need money. I just want a house, and I want to play mu-sic. If I got a million dollars today, 
you wouldn’t believe how quick it 
would go to equipment that I want. That’s how I’ve always been.” 
Two Gainesville production com-
panies, Over Easy Creative and Or-ganic Vision Presents, teamed up to bring this event to Gainesville. 
Deputy is an unexpected artist 
for Over Easy Creative, a mostly 
electronic-focused team, to recruit 
for a show. Les Voss, the owner of Over Easy Creative, said the move made sense given the technology Deputy utilizes. “This show deﬁ  nitely sits outside 
our usual electronic sound,” Voss said, “but, these days, more artists than ever before are using electronic tools to craft their sound. Zach Dep-uty is the master of loops, and all 
of his instruments are ran through 
software to allow him to play mul-tiple instruments at the same time while still keeping full control of the output.”
Voss said he became friends 
with Charlie Bilsker, the founder of Organic Vision Presents, after he at-tended one of their shows back in 2011. The two groups have teamed up more and more over the years.
“For a crossover act like Zach, it 
makes perfect sense for us to get in-volved too,” Voss said. 
Beyond being blown away by 
Deputy’s talent, Voss said Deputy’s passion for what he does is a moti-vator for him. 
“Music is what he loves, and he 
gets to do it every single day,” he said. “Zach is as nice and genuine as that grin you see in all his pic-tures would lead you to expect. See-ing anyone doing what they love so endlessly inspires me to push on with my projects.” 
This love for the music is some-
thing guaranteed to strike listeners, no matter what Deputy song they’re listening to, from his “Wash It in the 
Water” album released last fall to 
what should be a memorable live al-bum set to be released this summer. 
“I’m always excited to play,” 
Deputy said. “I don’t care if it’s one person or no people — I love music. It blows my mind that I get to do the thing that I love most, and people like it too.” 
Zach Deputy to play new Heartwood Soundstage tonight
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Zach Deputy, a South Carolina musician, will return to Gainesville tonight at 8 p.m. to play 
one of the ﬁ  rst shows at the new Heartwood Soundstage. Tickets range from $12 to $20. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *
2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
A PRIVATE COTTAGE 2BR/1BA
Fenced, hardwood, W/D hk-ups, 4 minutes 
to Everything. SW area. $1200/mo. 352-260-
2209    3-29-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
University Club Apts Summer Sublet 1/1 in 
4/4, M or F, (3 F roommates). Fully furn, w/d, great location, 24 hr study lounge & gym. No sublet fees, rent incl WiFi, cable, utils, ame-nities. Call now for more info 954-494-5759    3-29-5-3.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDSony Bravia 40" 1080 HD TV $175
Model KDL-40V2500
Older Model Still Working
Contact Me at (850) 293-8878. Please leave a Voicemail or Text    3-24-2-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change
$1000 discount off the finest price
www.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Looking for someone to drive a beverage cart at our golf course selling beers, soda & snacks to our golfers. PT, hours flexible. Easy, fun, casual work environment. Salary + tips. 352-807-3176 ask for Doc.    2-28-5-14
Part time Babysitter wanted, for summer into fall. $12/hr for kids age 8-14. Babysitting experience and car required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    3-27-17-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must ow n a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-29-17-55-14Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal-ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 15 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     3-27-17-9-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
P/T front desk receptionist for dental office in Haile Plantation in Gainesville. Afternoon and evening hours. $12-16 per hour. Send CV to gdentaljob@gmail.com. No phone calls please.              3-27-17-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatestTYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Breast Cancer  Research Foundation
Research A ssistant positionrequires Javascript, AWS,  email 1 page resume to science@mammacare.org    3-30-17-10-14
Artists, Creatives, Makers, Builders!
Come share your passion for being a 
MAKER with Kids this summer! Full Time 
Day Camp w/Competitive Pay
www.masterbuildercamp.com/jobs
3-30-17-12-14
Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
Sun Country Sports
is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,
Gymnastics Coaches.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     
4-3-17-14-14
ACROSS
1 Munro pen name
5 Fix, as faulty
code
10 Shorten14 Scoundrel of
“Tess of theD’Urbervilles”
15 One of
Chekhov’s“Three Sisters”
16 Sharpen
17 7-Eleven’s Big
Gulp, for one
20 Prepare to relax21 “__ Pointe
Blank”: 1997 film
22 Shipping
nickname
23 Marketing
gimmick
25 It makes for
easier reading
31 McKinley’s first
lady
32 Like mud in
election season
33 Serious
violations
35 PC’s spacebar
neighbor
36 Mayor pro __37 Swallow40 Replayed
service
41 Lay on the line43 “The Haywain
Triptych” painter
45 Keen perception
46 Teased style50 Many a “Call the
Midwife”
character
51 Part of FWIW52 Yak-like55 Honeymoon
spots
59 What a deejay
might do to
create energy ...or a request thatmay lead to 17-,25- and 46-Across
62 Digital imaging
brand
63 Lodging
64 Highly prized65 Exec’s dispatch66 iPods since
2005
67 “The Facts of
Life” mentorGarrettDOWN
1 Get fresh with
2 His, in Le Havre
3 Didn’t surrender
4 Old-style
hangover relief
5 Devoted follower6 He played Frank
on “CHiPs”
7 Commercial URL
suffix
8 French article9 Many an
infomercialoffering
10 Greek
personification oftime
11 Lane often in
distress
12 Honeymoon
options
13 Long-haired lap
dog, familiarly
18 Most interesting
to a collector
19 Minute amount23 Element in pewter24 Swallow25 Accusatory retort
26 Impulsive line
27 “I’m walkin’ here!”
speaker of 1969
28 “Dancing With the
Stars” dances29 Persian Gulf
sight
30 Massage
34 Texas ALer38 Pulls off
39 “Oh yeah?”
42 Spicy Chinese
dish
44 A47 Fish whose
preparation isstrictly regulatedin Japan48 Griddle
alternative
49 Lover of Tristan
52 Virtually bombard
53 Voluminous54 Switch on a radio
55 Modernize
56 Kicked oneself
about
57 IRS agent58 Vaccines60 Placeholder abbr.61 Sweetheart
By Matthew Sewell©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/23/1703/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR  13 
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the 
night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
Divorce - Paternity - Child Support
Sharon L. Neil, Esq.
(352) 494-8848
www.neilcivillaw.com/family-law
3-23-7-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area announces a public meeting 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: April 3, 2017 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation – MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least seven (7) days before the public 
meeting.      3-23-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance accepted
Marcywilson.com ½ price for
veterans or cancer patients
Call/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/27-
3/30 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.      3-27-5-20
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please .
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/Notices 16 Health ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Mike White awarded District Coach of the Year
The National Association of Basketball Coaches awarded Florida's Mike 
White coach of the year for District 21, which is made up of all SEC teams, 
the NABC announced on Wednesday.Aleshia Ocasio and the Florida 
softball team steamrolled their way to another win on Tuesday. Read the story, pg. 16By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
In August, Maegan Chant’s life 
was uprooted.
The freshman made the 1,180-
mile trip from her home in Water-down, Ontario, to Gainesville to compete on a new team in a coun-try she hadn’t grown up in.
She also had to adjust to the 
academic demands of college after taking a gap year to focus on try-ing to make the Canadian Olympic team.
For a 19-year-old, that can be 
overwhelming.But from the 
moment Chant stepped on cam-
pus, she didn’t skip a beat.
“She has 
shown no signs what-soever of any 
homesick(ness),” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said on Wednes-day. “She’s a great role model her-self, very mature for her age. And just can adapt, can handle, can adjust to various situations very easily.”
Although she was far away from her family, her Florida team-mates welcomed her and helped ensure a smooth transition.
“Yeah, moving away from home 
and moving to another country is obviously a big change,” Chant said. “But I had a family to come to that has provided me with so much support and encouragement.”
Even with welcoming team-
mates, however, she's has to battle for the chance to compete for the Gators.
After competing on bars, vault 
and ﬂ  oor in the ﬁ  rst two meets, she was out of the lineup after she in-jured her ankle during a tumbling pass fall against Kentucky on Jan. 13.
Though she enjoyed cheering 
for teammates, she wasn’t comfort-able not being able to contribute.
Those weeks spent on the side-
lines pushed her that much harder toward a comeback.
“I think it made her hungry,” 
Rowland said. “It’s so much fun to be a part of the team, even if you’re not on the ﬂ  oor, but to be compet-ing is a whole different level.”
Chant regained her spot on bars 
four meets later and has not let go.
She has also competed on vault 
twice in the last ﬁ  ve meets.And while she is used to com-
peting on big stages as an individ-ual, with the NCAA Gainesville Re-gional just nine days away, Chant will have to deal with the pressure of having to contribute.
Her teammates aren’t worried if 
she will deliver.
“She deﬁ  nitely adds depth to 
this team,” freshman Rachel Gow-ey said. “We can still count on her to go up and a hit a routine when she needs it to be hit.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org 
 Chant clawing her way into UF gymnastics lineupBy Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Standing in Florida’s Indoor Practice 
Facility, Feleipe Franks a few feet to his 
left, Kyle Trask realized something.
“I’m always in a competition,” he said, 
laughing.
That was true even in high school. 
Trask — a 6-foot-4, 238-pound quarter-back from Texas — served mostly as a backup at Manvel High.
When he enrolled at Florida before the 
start of last season, he was a backup again — this time to Luke Del Rio and former UF quarterback Austin Appleby.
But this year, he’s aiming for something 
different.
“I feel 100 percent more conﬁ  dent 
at the line of scrimmage,” Trask said on Wednesday. 
“I think I can bring the offense to a 
higher level.”
Trask is one of four quarterbacks on 
UF’s roster along with Franks, Del Rio and incoming freshman Kadarius Toney
Del Rio will miss all of Spring practice 
as he recovers from his shoulder surgery in early March. And while coaches have been impressed with Toney’s athleticism, UF hasn’t started a true freshman quarterback in its season opener in at least eight years.
That leaves Franks and Trask as the 
two frontrunners in UF’s quarterback com-petition this Spring, and leaves Florida 
with another offseason full of questions at 
the position.
“Me and Kyle are both here to make 
each other better,” Franks said. “Iron sharpens iron.” 
UF’s quarterback problem is not a new  Another season, another QB competition
When Yadier Molina was asked how much 
winning the World Baseball Classic meant to him, he didn’t hesitate. 
“It means just as much, if not more,” he 
told USA Today. 
Puerto Rico’s catcher was referencing winning the 
World Series, a feat he’s done twice as a member of the St. Louis Cardinals. He then uttered the words that fuel the World Baseball Classic.
“This is for our country,” he said. “You get emotional 
when you play for your country.”
I’m writing this hours before either Puerto Rico or the 
United States, two teams who’ve never won the classic, are crowned world champs at the title game in Los An-geles. So why not shine a spotlight on baseball’s Olympic Games?
This tournament, one that takes place every four 
years, is the real World Series. That’s evident by Mo-lina’s words.
Earth’s greatest baseball players congregate to repre-
sent their respective home countries. Some leave their MLB teams' spring training schedules behind for what becomes the planet’s pastime, not just America’s. 
The result, as you’d expect, is spectacular. Take the Netherlands’ Wladimir Balentien for exam-
ple. He served up one of the most absurd and obnoxious bat-ﬂ  ipped home runs of all time vs Puerto Rico. The World Baseball 
Classic is every bit 
fun as it is important
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
Chant 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kyle Trask (11) stretches during practice on Wednesday at the Sanders Practice Fields. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
one. Since 2010, the Gators have started nine dif-
ferent quarterbacks, mostly producing mediocre results. 
UF’s most efficient passer of the last six sea-
sons came in 2012, when former quarterback Jeff 
Driskel threw for 12 touchdowns, five intercep-
tions, 1,646 yards and had a 63.7-percent com-pletion percentage. That year, Driskel was the SEC’s 12th best quarterback (out of 14 starters) 
in passing yards per game.
Even last year, in McElwain’s second season 
as head coach, Florida and its staff believed it 
had found an answer to its quarterback struggles.
In the end, though, its quarterback situation 
still remained one of the team’s biggest question marks. Del Rio was named the starter for UF’s season opener but started just five more games 
due to injuries. He finished with eight touch-
downs and eight interceptions. 
Austin Appleby, now graduated and prepar-ing for the upcoming NFL Draft, started seven games, throwing for 10 touchdowns and seven interceptions.
And as Del Rio and Appleby played, Trask 
and Franks redshirted, learning from both.
“You could tell they were experienced,” Trask 
said. “As they approached the line of scrimmage, they were telling people where to go. I was trying to pick away at their brain and just trying to get that into my game.”
According to teammates and coaches, Trask 
and Franks have both made significant improve-ments since last season. 
But they have improved in different areas.Trask is more consistent, offensive coordina-
tor Doug Nussmeier said, makes less mistakes and understands the offense better. But he tends to overthink.
“He’s deadly accurate,” Nussmeier said. “The 
biggest thing with Kyle is just getting repetition, getting in the game and playing ... (because) he may overanalyze a little bit.” 
Franks has a stronger arm, is more mobile and is a superior athlete. But he struggles with consistency. 
“We’ve got to teach him that you can’t make 
every throw, and sometimes you can’t throw it through three guys,” Nussmeier said.
But off the field, the two share many of the 
same interests.
They play ping pong and basketball on the 
weekends, and even play the occasional round of golf.
“It’s not what people make it out to be — ha-
tred,” Franks said.  “It’s a friendship that could possibly last for a lifetime.”
But with Florida’s annual Spring scrimmage 
on April 7, Trask and Franks have just two more 
weeks to show coaches they deserve to be con-
sidered for the starting job.
“It’s the best competition I’ve ever been a part 
of,” Franks said. “We’re going to grind it out ev-ery day to see (who wins).” 
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Trask and Franks play ping pong and golf together
And everyone loved it, partially 
because you’d never see that in the 
MLB.
There’s the USA, which wows 
with breathtaking plays. 
Giancarlo Stanton blasted a home 
run that nearly knocked over an in-dustrial building at Petco Park against the Dominican Republic. In that same 
game, centerfielder Adam Jones 
robbed Baltimore Orioles teammate Manny Machado of a home run, giv-ing us not only the catch of the year so far, but a wondrous, patriotic mo-ment. 
One also can’t forget the Domini-
can Republic’s Fernando Rodney, who pulled a rally plantain out of his pants during introductions two weeks ago.
Then there’s Puerto Rico. Oh, the blond-haired, slick-field-
ing, exciting Puerto Rican team.
Besides the fact that its mem-
bers died their hair blond (because blondes have more fun, obviously), there’s so much to love about this squad. 
It features one of baseball's great 
young players in the Houston Astros’ Carlos Correa, and one of the flashiest — no wait, the flashiest — player in the game in the Chicago Cubs’ Javier Baez, who has impressed with no-look tags and swim-move slides. 
And you can’t leave out Molina, 
the veteran backstop who can seem-ingly do no wrong when behind the plate. 
There’s a lot to love about the 
World Baseball Classic. Too much to fit in this column. 
During a time when the NFL is 
talking about banning field goal leaps and everything else that makes its sport entertaining, the World Baseball Classic is doing the exact opposite. 
Combining fun and meaningful 
baseball? Nothing beats that.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Feleipe Franks calls out a play during practice on Wednesday at the Sanders Practice Fields. 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Doug Nussmeier gestures during practice on Wednesday. 
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2017
NORTH CENTRAL FLORIDA YMCA
5201 NW 34th Blvd        www.NCFYMCA.comCOMMUNITY
YARD SALE
Proceeds raised from this event will support the YMCA’s mission to be an inclusive organization of men, 
women, and children joined together by a shared commitment to nurturing the potential of children, promoting healthy living, and fostering a sense of social responsibility.Shop or Sell
352-374-9622
Sat., March 25
7 am - 12 pm
Spaces are $30 for one or $50 for two. Rent the space and keep the profit. Spaces are limited so reserve your spot today.One man’s trash is another man’s treasure. 
Come sell and shop at the North Central 
Florida YMCA’s Community Yard Sale.
Get Involved
Join our member 
advocate group on 
Facebook to learn more 
about how you can show 
your support for our 
community’s YMCA
Facebook.com/
groups/NCFYMCA
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
Jordan Roberts started back to 
home plate.
The ball she slammed deep to 
right ﬁ  eld looked to cross over the 
foul line before sailing over the fence. But after a lengthy pause ﬁ  lled with confusion, the home plate umpire called the ball fair, giving the freshman catcher her 
ﬁ  rst career grand slam and sending 
USF coach Ken Eriksen down the ﬁ  rst-base line in rage.
The Gators used that grand slam 
and subsequent ﬁ  ve-run third in-
ning to shut out a sloppy USF team 
that collapsed after ﬁ  ve frames, 8-0. 
Florida (27-1, 5-0 SEC) used 
strong defense and a couple great 
catches to ﬁ  re up the team.
In the top of the third inning, 
USF right ﬁ  elder AnaMarie Bruni 
cranked a foul ball to the left. What looked like a near impossible ball to 
catch found the glove of freshman shortstop Sophia Reynoso.
Her diving catch inspired the 
team’s offense, which ripped off 
ﬁ  ve runs in the bottom half of the inning.
“I think you saw the excitement 
level, not only from her making the play... but the whole defense it-self,” coach Tim Walton said. 
By the time the third inning was 
over, the Gators had a commanding six-run advantage.
Florida pitcher Aleshia Ocasio, 
meanwhile, tossed another score-less performance and earned her ﬁ  fth victory on the season. The ju-nior only allowed two hits in her 
ﬁ  ve innings.
“Aleshia, she’s just a strike 
thrower,” Walton said. “I think we 
do take a lot of pride in how we do things on defense. We’re not just 
trying to make routine plays rou-
tine, but also special plays routine 
as well.” 
No USF player reached third 
base until the ﬁ  nal inning. And while Ocasio only struck out four batters, the Bulls couldn’t ﬁ  nd a break in Florida’s outﬁ  eld.
Senior Justine McLean and 
sophomore Amanda Lorenz both had multi-hit games, and Hoover scored twice for the Gators.
Heading into a matchup with 
SEC powerhouse Auburn, the Gators hope to use this game as momentum against a strong oppo-nent.
“To me, it’s all about the time 
and preparation it takes to face an SEC opponent,” Walton said. “I’m excited the way we came out and played today. We brought our A-
game.”
The Gators are currently perfect 
in SEC play with sweeps against 
Missouri and South Carolina.
Florida starts its series with 
Auburn on March 25 at 6 p.m. in 
Gainesville.
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org  Gators wrangle Bulls in shutout
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida’s win over Northwestern 
State on Feb. 17. 
SOFTBALL: UF 8, USF 0