We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 117 TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
Florida gym excelling on vault
The Gators are tied for second in the country 
on the apparatus, pg. 13
It’s election day in Gainesville
Meet the seven candidates for city commission, pgs. 8 and 9
Local restaurants oﬀ  er Pi Day deals
Check out our list of deals, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorHE APPEARS TO BE 
PUNCHING A WITNESS 
IN FOOTAGE.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
In the aftermath of the drunken 
arrest of UF’s incoming Student 
Body President Smith Meyers, 
some students plan on calling for 
his resignation today in a Turling-
ton Plaza protest. Anthony Rojas, a 21-year-old 
UF political science junior, orga-
nized the protest, which is at 12:30 
p.m., and started an additional on-
line petition at change.org calling 
for Meyers’ resignation. He said he 
wanted to create the petition, to be 
given to Dean of Students Jen Day 
Shaw, to allow students who can’t 
attend the protest to have an outlet 
to voice their concerns. 
He said he also wanted to show 
UF’s administration the students 
don’t want Meyers in ofﬁ  ce. The petition has more than 253 signa-
tures as of press 
time. 
The protest 
comes a day after 
the Key West Po-
lice Department 
released a police 
body camera 
video showing 
the events lead-
ing up to the arrest of the incoming Student Body president.
Rojas said he believes more people will show up to the protest 
now that there is visual evidence of 
Meyers’ arrest.
“The main point here is that 
now, everyone has direct visual ev-
idence of how irresponsible his be-
havior and actions were,” he said. 
“The narrative can’t be spun.” 
The footage, requested by the 
Alligator following Meyers’ arrest, 
appears to show Meyers punching 
a witness before running away. It 
also features witnesses speaking 
with police ofﬁ  cers, accusing the 22-year-old of attempting to steal 
scooters and drive one on a  road-
way before opening the door of a car and demanding its driver get out.
It also shows police ofﬁ  cers 
speaking with Meyers, questioning 
him about what he was doing and 
eventually arresting him for what 
one ofﬁ  cer called “some bull----.” 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said university administration is  Footage of Smith Meyers’ arrest released; protest planned
Meyer
Courtesy to the Alligator
An osprey stands in its nest above UF’s Alfred A. McKethan Stadium with its two eggs. The future baby 
osprey’s parents, a male and female captured through a livestream established by the UF Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, conceived the eggs within the past week.
ONE BIRD LAID TWO EGGS 
WITHIN THE LAST WEEK. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Perched on a 90-foot light pole, 
UF’s two resident ospreys will soon 
add baby birds to their nest.
The male and female ospreys 
captured on a livestream above Al-fred A. McKethan Stadium became parents to two eggs within the past 
week, and more may come. 
The second egg came three 
days after the ﬁ  rst one, which was conceived on March 9, said Mark Hostetler, a UF professor in the De-
partment of Wildlife Ecology Con-servation who helped set up the livestream.
The ospreys, who arrived at the 
nest on Jan. 28, and their eggs don’t have names, but they have admir-ers; people around the world will welcome the newborns whenever 
they hatch.
The livestream video of the nest, 
hosted on the department’s website, 
has been viewed more than 12,000 
times on Facebook and includes 
comments from people in Germany, Dubai, Egypt and Argentina.
Hostetler said he hopes to host 
a fundraiser when the eggs hatch 
where people can possibly choose 
names.
The livestream will operate until  What to expect when 
UF ospreys expecting
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students came back from 
Spring Break to a half-renovated Pla-
za of the Americas — and some were not impressed with the university’s latest project.The construction, which started 
November 2016, is halfway done and should be completed in June, said Robert Hatker, the project man-ager.
The east side of the ﬁ  eld facing 
Peabody Hall, which was previously fenced, is now uncovered, and the west side facing Leigh Hall is being worked on. 
The project’s total budget was 
set at $2.2  million, and construction costs have not yet exceeded that, Hatker said.
Harold Barrand, UF’s director of 
minor projects said workers replaced all sidewalks and added new ones, 
re-planted grass and landscaping, 
replaced the roadway in front of Pea-body Hall with a pedestrian walkway and built a new irrigation system.
Constructors still have to add re-
cycling and trash bins, establish the plaza’s Wi-Fi and add new benches 
and tables.
“I think it’s exceeded everybody’s 
expectations,” Barrand said. “It’s a 
nice feeling to see the plans become a reality.”
Gabby Quintana, a UF political 
science and philosophy senior, said she’s missed laying in her hammock on the plaza since part of it closed in November.
Now, the 21-year-old said the 
renovations seem overpriced since it looks like volunteers could have 
completed them.
 Construction on Plaza of the Americas halfway doneSEE FOOTAGE,  PAGE 4
SEE OSPREY,  PAGE 4
SEE PLAZA,  PAGE 4Some students were not impressed “Now that the eggs have laid, 
now I’m 100 percent conﬁ  dent 
they’re staying at the nest.” 
Mark Hostetler
UF ProfessorCAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 116
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  66° LOW  40°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
RUB Entertainment Flower and 
Garden Festival 
Today at 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union Amphitheater, the Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
Flower and Garden Festival 
will focus on creating crafts that resonate with the season. RUB Entertainment is celebrat-ing Plant a Flower Day and the upcoming spring equinox. They will provide all decorating mate-rials, music and seeds to sprout. Also a slice of pie will be avail-
able for a picnic on Pi day.
UF’s University Galleries 
presents the MFA Thesis 
Candidates Exhibition IThe University Gallery is pleased to present the Master of Fine Arts Thesis Candidates Exhibition I from today to March 
24. The exhibition features art-
work by graduating UF MFA students. Media represented in-cludes graphic design, ceramics, installation, painting, printmak-ing, sculpture and video. The exhibition and the opening re-ception are free and open to the public. The opening reception 
will be Thursday at 5:30 p.m. 
Participants include Brianna Angelakis, Bridget Jeanne Hogan Fairbank, Ashley Fuchs, Brielle Jenkins and Megan Paige Ward.
The Saint John’s Bible: A Bible 
for the 21st Century
The Saint John’s Bible is the first 
handwritten, illuminated Bible commissioned by a Benedictine Abbey in more than 500 years. It took six scribes, six artists and a team of scholars, all working under the direction of Donald Jackson, senior scribe to Queen Elizabeth II, 15 years to com-
plete. Saint John’s University 
has created the Heritage Edition, a very high quality facsimile manuscript. David Allaway, the director of the Heritage Program at Saint John’s, will talk about the Bible on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Judaica Suite on the second floor of Smathers 
Library. A volume from the 
Heritage Edition, “Gospels & Acts,” will be on display before and after the presentation.
Authors@UF: Thomas S. Bianchi
Thomas S. Bianchi is a UF geol-ogy professor and the Jon and Beverly Thompson chair in geo-
logical sciences. He will discuss 
his book “Deltas and Humans: A Long Relationship Now Threatened by Global Change” on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Humans have had a long rela-tionship with the ebb and flow of tides on river deltas around the world. This book provides information on the historical re-lationship between humans and 
deltas that will hopefully en-
courage immediate preparation for coastal management plans in response to the impending inundation of major cities as a result of global change around the world.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
TAKING CARE 
OF BUSINESS
352-226-3879
tcbautosinc.com
2027 NE 27th AveAUTO SALES
by appointment onlyPi Day Deals and Events
Blaze Pizza
Deal:  Any pizza $3.14
Location:  3617 SW Archer Road
From open to close, Blaze will sell any pizza for $3.14.
Sherry Bayless, general manager of the Gainesville lo-
cation, said Blaze Pizza employees made about 2,000 pies during last year’s National Pi Day.
“Our goal on that day is to bring the Gainesville com-
munity together, it’s not about the money,” Bayless said. “This year we’re hoping to make at least 2,300 pies.”
Bayless said she needs to prepare the restaurant for 
Pi Day because the weather is predicted to be around 30 degrees and rainy.
“So I’ve had to add to my to-do list,” Bayless said. “I 
have to make sure I am getting propane for our heaters 
and extra umbrellas to put out.”By Isabella Arjomand
Alligator Contributing Writer
In celebration of National Pi Day, pizza restaurants are prepping deals throughout Gainesville.
Domino’s Pizza
Deal:  Carryout medium one-topping pizza 
for $3.99
Location:  Any in Gainesville
If Blaze is not your style, there’s always 
Domino’s Pizza. Domino’s promotion is a me-
dium one-topping pizza for $3.99, carryout only.
Even though Blaze Pizza is 85 cents cheaper 
than Domino’s, some students are taking dis-tance and convenience into consideration.  
“Even though I don’t think Domino’s would 
be better than Blaze Pizza, I would still go with 
Domino’s because it’s more convenient to get 
delivery and avoid a very long line,” said Traci 
Post, a UF accounting junior.Boston Market
Deal:  Rotisserie chicken with purchase
Location:  6483 W. Newberry Road
Not feeling pizza but still want a deal on 
food? Boston Market is giving guests who 
bring in a Pi Day coupon from the Boston 
Market website, a free rotisserie chicken 
pot pie with the purchase of any individual meal and drink.
Blaze Pizza
Deal:
  Any pizza $3.14
Location:
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
aware of the video and petition, 
but that is the extent the adminis-tration will comment on it.“We don’t talk about student 
conduct matters,” she said. 
In the video, when police con-
front Meyers about the allegations, he claims a witness was “overre-
acting,” and that he was tired and wanted to go home.
“Like literally, I’m trying to go 
to sleep right now,” Meyers tells an ofﬁ  cer in the video.
When the ofﬁ  cer asked Meyers 
where he goes to school, Meyers said UF.
“It’s always UF,” the ofﬁ  cer 
said. “For a (practically) Ivy League school, it’s ... yeah.”
When asked why the police was 
receiving reports that he was try-ing to steal scooters and knocking 
down motorcycles, including what one ofﬁ  cer identiﬁ  ed as a $40,000 
Harley Davidson motorcycle, Mey-
ers said, “It’s not my fault.” 
Meyers could not be reached for MEYERS,  from pg.1In arrest footage, a witness told police Meyers tried to drive
“It’s pretty,” Quintana said. “But 
it’s not as cozy as before.”
Construction was funded 
through two UF alumni’s $1.3 
million donation, with remaining 
money from the ofﬁ  ce of UF Chief 
Operating Ofﬁ  cer Charlie Lane, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
Charles Shields, a UF political science graduate student, said UF didn’t prioritize its spending. 
Shields, the communications di-
rector for Graduate Assistants Unit-ed, said the union is negotiating a new contract for graduate students’ 
health care program with UF.
UF told the union they had 
to ﬁ  nd $900,000 to keep the cur-
rent health care plan, equal to the amount of money UF put into the renovations, Shields said.“So you can throw almost a 
million dollars for some landscap-ing, but on the other hand, you’re telling us our health care is costing you too much?” Shields said. “That makes me mad.”
Barrand said the renovations 
will improve the life of future stu-dents. 
“This will be a nice plaza for ev-
erybody to enjoy for many years to come,” Barrand said.PLAZA,  from pg.1Two alumni helped fund construction
Alan Alvarez/Alligator Staff
A portion of the newly renovated Plaza of the Americas reopened during Spring Break. The 
construction will add wider sidewalks and expand on-campus Wi-Fi.
the baby ospreys hatch from their 
eggs in about a month and leave the nest, about two months after being 
born, he said.
“They literally don’t get pushed,” 
Hostetler said. “The parents can be 
encouraging. It’s natural. Even our 
humans, they don’t get pushed out 
the nest, but there’s a natural pro-cess that happens.”
Hostetler said he wasn’t sur-
prised to see the eggs, but he was 
relieved. 
Now that the female osprey laid 
the eggs, the pair won’t leave the 
nest, so he can continue to operate 
the livestream — which costs about 
$10,000 to install and $250 monthly to run.
“Now that the eggs have 
laid, now I’m 100 percent conﬁ  -dent they’re staying at the nest,” 
Hostetler said. “Up to that point, 
they could have moved to another nest if they so desired.”The livestream will begin again 
in February 2018 at the start of mat-ing season, he said.
 Jeanette Klopchin, a 36-year-
old former UF employee, said she 
was excited get a closer look at the 
birds. 
She said she hopes the livestream 
will spread awareness of wildlife to people who wouldn’t typically be 
interested.
“It’s just really neat and interest-
ing to get a close-up look at a spe-
cies we don’t really get to see up 
close,” she said. “We can see the 
ospreys ﬂ  ying in Gainesville, but I don’t think anybody’s seen the in-side of a nest before.”
Though only two eggs have been 
laid, Hostetler said ospreys typically lay anywhere from one to four eggs, so more could be on the way. 
“People just have to wait and 
see what happens,” he said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org OSPREY,  from pg.1The livestream has been 
viewed across the worldTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After UF proposed a new, more 
expensive health care plan to its 
graduate assistants, they quickly pushed back.
UF presented the proposed plan 
on Jan. 30 to Graduate Assistants United, which represents graduate assistants and negotiates their con-tracts with the university. The pro-posed contract, part of the graduate assistants’ overall contract renego-tiated every three years, includes a $10 monthly premium and would increase copays for some services, 
said Charles Shields, GAU’s com-
munications chair.
In their counterproposal sent 
March 6, the union reversed all changes and sent back the original plan, Shields said.
“It was kind of a ballsy move on 
our part to make a counterproposal that didn’t move in their direction at all,” he said. “But we kind of wanted to make a statement about where we stand on this.”
Shields said there are about 
4,000 graduate assistants at UF.
Bobby Mermer, GAU’s health 
care chair, said if students can’t 
pay for the insurance they may be 
forced to drop out of school.
“It’s not so much about the plan 
being rich, it would be one of the best plans if we all made 50, 60, 70,000 (dollars) a year, but we’re not, and that’s the key,” he said.
Mermer said GAU needs more 
information to decide the best deal 
for graduate students. He said in-
creasing costs will make it more expensive for students who are pregnant, have cancer, diabetes or HIV/AIDS.
“This is something you want to 
go at with a scalpel, not a sledge-hammer, which is what their pro-posal currently does,” Mermer said.
Bill Connellan, UF’s chief bar-gainer, said the proposals address that graduate students are using the program more than expected. The inclusion of premiums would help cover about half of the million-dol-lar deﬁ  cit.
Connellan said premiums would 
spread costs of expensive proce-dures, such as chemotherapy, be-tween all graduate students, so some wouldn’t have to pay more for costly treatments. 
He said the current graduate stu-
dent plan is one of the best offered through the university. 
“It’s better than what we have 
as faculty and staff, is it not?” Con-nellan said. 
Shields said contract negotia-
tions continue through March, and the union and UF are trying to de-cide the health care portion by April 15. The hard deadline for negotia-
tions is June 30. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  Graduate assistants push back 
against UF health care proposal
By Jamie Honowitz 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF health care center in Jack-
sonville is one step closer to be-
coming a hospital. 
UF Health North, located at 
15255 Max Leggett Parkway in 
Jacksonville, was recognized by 
a national nonproﬁ  t for its acute stroke program, which treats pa-
tients immediately after a stroke 
on an emergency basis. The certiﬁ  -cation will help the facility become an ofﬁ  cial hospital, said Jesef Wil-liams, a communications coordina-tor for UF Health Communications. 
The facility was notiﬁ  ed of the 
certiﬁ  cation on Jan. 25, said Mar-sha Walker, the nurse manager at 
UF Health North’s emergency de-
partment.
The Joint Commission, a na-
tional nonproﬁ  t organization which accredits and certiﬁ  es hos-pitals and health care centers, rec-ognizes facilities with outstanding care through stroke programs, Williams said. Along with serving as an emergency center for stroke 
patients, UF Health North, which 
has been open for two years, also provides emergency medical care. 
“Especially as it relates to the 
northeast Florida community and Georgia with the emergence of Health North, we’re able to pro-vide those robust reserves to this area that didn’t have the access 
that they have now,” Williams 
said.
Walker said UF Health North 
met the qualiﬁ  cations for the rec-ognition, which included having qualiﬁ  ed medical professionals, a stroke-focused program and the 24/7 ability to test and diagnose patients, according to UF Health’s 
website. 
“I think it lets people know that 
we are dedicated to the commu-
nity,” she said. “It ensures that we don’t just have the drugs available; we have the processes available.”   UF center recognized 
for stroke programThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
The double standards in shaming Smith Meyers
I ﬁ  rst discovered Jon Ronson’s book “So 
You’ve Been Publicly Shamed” last sum-mer during one of my regular podcast 
loops at work. Ronson discussed his latest 
literary endeavor with Chris Hardwick on 
the Nerdist podcast and shed light on a topic I had never truly thought about on a deeper 
level: public shaming in the social media age. 
Cases like those of Justine Sacco, Lindsey Stone and Jonah Lehrer form the backbone of the book as Ronson depicts the swift-moving and often life-ruining mob mentality of public 
shaming on sites like Twitter and 4Chan.
In every one of these cases, the results of the on-
line backlash far outweigh the severity of the target’s 
transgressions. Lindsey Stone, who posted a photo of 
herself on Facebook in 2012 making an obscene ges-
ture at Arlington National Cemetery, was ﬁ  red from her job as a social worker due to an overwhelming amount of online backlash. She also received death threats and didn’t leave her house for a year in fear that she would 
be recognized in public. 
Yet, the book’s real draw is Ronson’s discussion 
of the sadistic enjoyment shamers seem to get out of 
“punishing” people like Lindsey Stone. Public shaming 
is, in fact, a group effort that requires a sort of mob 
mentality in order to be efﬁ  cacious. And while public shaming can be incredibly useful to hold corporations and elected ofﬁ  cials accountable, it’s hard to ignore the disastrous effects it can have on its less powerful tar-
gets. There is no “innocent until proven guilty” rule in 
the world of Twitter.
This discussion inevitably leads us to the case of 
Smith Meyers, who, in case you were living under a 
rock during Spring Break, was arrested last week in Key 
West after police said he drunkenly knocked over mo-torcycles and reportedly didn’t even know he was in Key West. Needless to say, a lot of people were waiting for something like this to hap-pen, and they ﬂ  ocked to social media as soon 
as the story broke. Some called for his re-
moval as the incoming Student Body presi-dent, some merely posted his mug shot with the caption “Go Gators lol” and some com-
mented that they “want what he’s having.”
But beyond the instantaneous social me-
dia coverage was a deeper sense of schaden-
freude in regard to Meyers’ misfortune. While this probably stemmed from students’ 
overwhelming dissatisfaction with everything Meyers stood for (Impact party, Greek life, the UF establish-ment), it manifested itself in an extremely problematic fashion. While I have little to no sympathy for someone 
who blacks out so hard he doesn’t even know what city 
he’s in, I do have sympathy for someone whose life will be seriously impacted by one stupid decision he or she made in college. We should indisputably hold incom-ing-Student Body President Smith Meyers accountable 
for his actions, but we should also have some compas-
sion.
I’ve never been arrested or run for an elected po-
sition, but I have deﬁ  nitely done some incredibly stu-
pid things in my 21 years of life. I’m sure we all have, 
and perhaps we should keep that in mind when we’re laughing at a fellow student’s misfortune. Meyers ran for Student Body president with full knowledge that he would be held to a higher standard, so there should be 
some consequences to his arrest. But we should also 
remember how easily we could have been in the same position and give him the same consideration we would want for ourselves.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Don’t let the White 
House control the 
narrative 
In case you haven’t heard, there might be cameras in your mi-
crowave detecting your every move. That’s a claim made by good old Kellyanne Conway, counselor to President Donald Trump, now infamous for using the term “alternative facts” to describe lies. So really, we shouldn’t be that surprised that 
her most recent stint involves a technology that doesn’t exist to defend a claim that has no basis.
Let’s take a step back and look at that line.We aren’t surprised the counselor to the president has made 
an absurd claim (microwaves have hidden cameras) to support an early morning Twitter accusation (Barack Obama, himself, or-dered a wiretap of Trump’s personal phones).
This is the state of our country right now, dear readers. What is the truth of the situation? Well, it’s incredibly unlikely 
that Obama personally ordered the wiretaps (you know, despite Trump saying speciﬁ  cally otherwise), though certainly, the ties to Russia that are currently under investigation were picked up by wiretaps. But that was likely the work of a government agen-cy and not a direct order from former President Obama, which would, honestly, be just stupid and sloppy. Those wiretaps were not done to help Hillary Clinton win, but to detect foreign inter-vention in our elections. And most likely, those wiretaps were on Russian organizations, not speciﬁ  cally Trump Tower. 
Now, OK, maybe Trump was just making a general, charac-
teristically angry statement about the wiretapping that did go on. And certainly, if he was still just a celebrity or a person on Twit-ter, he could get away with it. But (as we at UF are all familiar with now), as an elected ofﬁ  cial — as the president of the U.S. — one must be held to higher standards, which in this case in-cludes not making dangerous accusations on Twitter out of mis-construed facts. 
One of the particularly dangerous things is that some people 
believe whatever the White House says, without question, and try to discredit the media that is attempting to get the facts straight. For some reason (a reason that, apparently, was not the same in the last administration), they will believe whatever Trump says, even if it goes against what actually happened. And sometimes, especially if it goes against what actually happened, it is what the “liberal” news is reporting on.
The president should not control the media; in fact, if anything, 
the media should be used to make sure that no single political ﬁ  g-ure controls the narrative. This isn’t some hippy-dippy left-wing ideology we’re trying to spread; this is a fact. From both extremes of the political spectrum — fascism and communism — one of the biggest staples of government control is taking over the media and essentially saying that whatever the party or the person in power says is fact, no questions asked. Just look at communist China, where the press is strictly regulated by the government. Just look at World War II era fascist Germany, where the Nazi party took control of radio, newspapers and other forms of press. 
We’re not at that level yet. But with each baseless assertion 
that our political leaders make, with each failure of the press to call attention to just how absurd the claims are, with each person who does not question what @POTUS says on Twitter, we get closer.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Apology accepted
I am writing to voice my support for in-
coming Student Body President Smith Mey-
ers and speak on behalf of the thousands of students who have read his statement and accepted his apology. I don’t know Smith well, but what I do know from mu-tual friends is how much this situation has weighed on his heart. Smith has worked for four years advocating for students and por-traying UF in a positive light. That should not be erased by the actions of one night. 
I also ﬁ  nd it puzzling that the majority of 
students calling for his resignation — be-cause he embarrassed the university — are the same students sharing the stories and videos all over social media, presumably spreading the embarrassment they claim to oppose. I also ﬁ  nd your publication’s criti-cism of his transparency to be unfounded. As anyone who has ever found himself or herself in a legal situation knows, you do not talk about your case with anyone other than your attorney before it is decided so as not to impact the outcome. This holds especially true for media outlets. What in-formation are you asking from Smith that he could ever possibly give you? Finally, your criticism of administration for their lack of comment is also unfounded. No universi-ty ofﬁ  cial is able to comment on the legal proceedings of a student due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, a Fed-eral law that protects the privacy of student education records. Do you expect adminis-tration to ignore this for your interviews? Please practice more responsible reporting in regard to this issue.
Cameryn Schultz is an 18-year-old UF 
applied physiology and kinesiology fresh-man.
 Papa John’s Pizza driver should not have been ﬁ  red over joke
This is in reference to an Alligator story 
published March 13, in which a Papa John's Pizza employee was ﬁ  red after writing a joke about domestic violence on the inside of a 
customer's box of brownies. The joke asked, 
"What do you tell a woman with two black 
eyes? Nothing, you already told her twice."
First off, I would like to give you some 
background on how I formulated my opinion. 
I am not the person to give sympathy to some-
one for making sexist remarks or joking about 
the very serious issue of domestic violence. I am an avid supporter of equality. I agree that this is not a “cool” joke, and I can understand 
anyone who is offended by it. But, that will not 
be the basis for my argument today.
The argument for why I believe it is the 
wrong decision to ﬁ  re the delivery driver who wrote this joke is much more simplistic: Peo-
ple make mistakes, especially when they are 
young. I can conﬁ  rm, through sources I have 
spoken to, the driver that was ﬁ  red is under the 
age of 20. How many mistakes did you make before you were 20 that could have gotten you 
ﬁ  red? Probably a lot — I know I did. In this 
age of social media and a 24-hour news cycle, 
companies attempt to placate the digital angry 
mob by sawing off their arm. Well, while you 
can live without your arm, having it does make things a heck of a lot easier!
 That is not the right reaction. Now, if the 
delivery driver was regularly late on deliveries 
or ate the pizza on the way to drop it off, those 
would be reasons to ﬁ  re a driver. But, because of one mistake, the company should disregard his performance record? That does not quite 
add up. Even if we can agree that the driver 
should not be ﬁ  red, then I already know the 
anonymous social media commentators will demand I spell out exactly what an appropri-ate punishment would be. Well, if Papa John’s 
Pizza truly does not “condone his actions” or “any violence of any kind, particularly against women,” as they were quoted as stating in 
the article, then they should join the ﬁ  ght for 
women’s equality and help combat domestic 
violence, rather than sweeping it under the rug. By ﬁ  ring this employee, they wipe their 
hands clean of this issue, shake their ﬁ  ngers 
in their workforce’s face saying, “don’t do this 
again,” and things proceed as they were. That 
affects no change in behavior, it affects no change in society, and it ultimately serves to 
dismiss this incident as a blip that will contrib-
ute nothing to women’s equality or the societal 
change needed to combat domestic violence. 
Instead, Papa John’s should, if they truly care 
about women’s rights and domestic violence, educate their workforce about the real strug-gles women face today in the workplace. They 
can educate their employees about how they 
can help battle domestic violence, even to 
the smallest degree, within their realm of in-ﬂ  uence. If they meant what they said in their statement, their actions would not have been 
to ﬁ  re a young delivery driver who made a 
stupid mistake. They would have taken that 
opportunity to change a life, impact others and teach a kid to think before writing a dumb joke next time.
Chip Lowe is a 24-year-old UF alumnus. 8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
Sheryl Eddie
 Perry Clawson
 Harvey Ward Jr. 
Gainesville City Commission Elections
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Perry Clawson felt the city commission wasn’t listen-
ing to Gainesville residents, so he decided to get involved 
in local government.
For the past six years, Clawson has voiced concerns 
about Gainesville Regional Utilities rates, the Biomass 
plant, student safety and employment rates to the city 
commissioners. But after the 59-year-old attended count-less meetings, he said he grew tired of commissioners politely nodding to the concerns of Gainesville residents and not taking action. Now he’s campaigning for the District 2 city commission seat against Sheryl Eddie and Harvey Ward Jr. to replace Commissioner Todd Chase. 
The city needs a commissioner who will listen to the 
public, Clawson said.
“I just got tired of complaining about my local govern-
ment and decided since I’m retired I can do something about it and run,” he said.
But as Clawson campaigned, he ran into trouble with 
his past.
 In January, he said, someone anonymously distrib-
uted about 300 letters detailing his criminal record.
His arrests include battery, larceny, domestic violence 
and driving while intoxicated, the Gainesville Sun re-
ported.
An order was also filed in November to restore a civil 
lawsuit from 2010 where Clawson is accused of stabbing 
a man in South Carolina, according to a police report.
“People get arrested, that happens every day,” said 
Clawson, who has lived in Gainesville for the past six years, when he moved after getting married. “In my case, the charges were dismissed in almost all the cases.”
Clawson, a retired Army Colonel and Purple Heart re-
cipient, has never run for public office. He said he wants to manage Gainesville’s growth to prevent transportation problems such as heavy traffic.
For students, Clawson said he wants to make the in-
tersection of 13th Street and University Avenue safe by creating an overhead crosswalk.
Clawson said he wants to redistribute the city budget 
to put more money toward basic services such as infra-structure and fire rescue. In addition, he would like to 
see lower rates for GRU and make careful decisions re-
garding the decision to buy the biomass plant, a renew-able energy site.  
“We had a lot of people who spoke out against the 
biomass plant,” he said. “The city commission didn’t lis-ten to that.”
Kimberly Clawson, the candidate’s wife, said people 
don’t know her husband’s compassionate and generous side. The two met in a restaurant in Winter Park, Florida, 
when Clawson was visiting his sons in Orlando.
“He goes out of his way to help perfect strangers,” she 
said. “That’s just Perry’s nature.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgBy Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Sheryl Eddie is hoping to bring attention to women’s rep-
resentation in Gainesville’s government.
The 51-year-old is running for Gainesville City Commis-
sion District 2 because she is horrified that despite the nearly 
equal presence of both genders in the city, there’s only one woman among 12 men on the Gainesville and Alachua com-missions.
“That’s pretty scary to me,” Eddie said. “Not to be rude, 
but if we keep putting the same white guys on government, we’re going to keep getting the same things over and over again.”
Her goals for the commission position are focused mainly 
on public transportation, including replicating UF’s Regional Transit System bus program on a larger scale for the city.
She wants to establish bus routes that only go up and 
down the main urban streets, like University Avenue, 13th 
Street and 34th Street and make connecting routes from the 
outskirts of town to those main streets.
Although she knows buying buses will be expensive, she 
also hopes to raise the drivers’ pay to encourage more peo-ple to work for RTS.  
Eddie said she’s passionate about public transportation 
because her grandfather used to be a streetcar and bus driver in New Orleans.
“Transit is, I guess, kind of in my blood,” the Florida 
State University communications alumna said.
Linda Williams, the Democratic Women’s Club of Ala-
chua County president, said she knows Eddie is capable of accomplishing her campaign promises. She watched Eddie, her predecessor as president, push club membership from 
roughly five members in 2014 to 67 members in 2016.
“She’s always concerned about other people’s problems 
and wanting to solve them,” Williams said. “She’s compas-
sionate.”
Laurie Porter, the development coordinator for Catholic 
Charities, said she has seen that compassion firsthand as Ed-die’s next-door neighbor for the last 15 years.
“If I wasn’t home, and I needed someone to check on my 
kids, I would trust her with the keys to my house,” Porter 
said. “I don’t think you can give someone a bigger compli-
ment than that.”
Porter said she thinks Eddie would be a great city com-
missioner because she’ll advocate for women’s rights and 
equal pay. She also likes that Eddie can relate to the single 
parent experience, having been a single mother for a few years.
“As a voter, those are all things I care about,” Porter said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgBy Max Chesnes 
Alligator Staff Writer
As a fourth-generation Gainesville native, Harvey 
Ward Jr. hopes to make Gainesville “the next great 
American city.”
A graduate of Eastside High School and UF, Ward 
says he takes great pride in his hometown. 
His largest inspiration stems from being a father 
to his three daughters, he said, and that’s why he’s running as a candidate for the District 2 City Com-mission seat.  
“The biggest reason I’m running is so that they 
can look around and say there is no place they’d rath-er be,” Ward said.
If elected, Ward aims to eliminate the gender pay 
gap, increase voter turnout by moving the city’s elec-tions to the fall, and ensure that the Wild Spaces and Public Places initiative is executed appropriately, he said. 
He also wants to invite additional internet provid-
ers to lower the cost of broadband in the city and work to improve transportation, including for bicy-clists, in Gainesville.
His ultimate goal is to push Gainesville into be-
coming “a city where every child has an opportunity to succeed, every working family can thrive and ev-ery elder can age with dignity.”
Ward is currently serving as executive director of 
the Holy Trinity Episcopal Foundation, the co-chair of City of Gainesville Empowerment Center Work Group and is a board member of Friends of Grace Marketplace and the Hippodrome State Theatre, he said.
“Gainesville is a place of opportunities and more,” 
Ward said. “I’m the candidate with the most experi-ence in Gainesville and the longest track record.” 
He said he takes pride in the fact that he has not 
accepted money from any political action committees or incorporations but has raised around $34,000 from over 350 individual donors. 
He updates his supporters continuously through 
Facebook livestream and says they’re the reason why he feels democracy is flourishing in Gainesville. 
His involvement in the community is one of the 
reasons why Susan Bottcher, a former Gainesville city commissioner, endorsed Ward’s campaign. 
“Harvey Ward understands the many needs of our 
community and more importantly, how the govern-ing process works,” Bottcher said. “Harvey will come into the job with these skills and abilities already in place.” 
@chesnesmax 
mchesnes@alligator.orgCandidates for District 2TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Candidates for Gainesville City Commission — Seat 2
Jenn Powell
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Jenn Powell decided to run for a 
City Commission seat just over three 
months ago. 
The 38-year-old mother of four 
made her decision in January after 
she read an Alachua County Labor 
Coalition questionnaire, in which current at-large commission incum-bent Helen Warren wrote, “the ma-jority of working people are doing fine,” in response to a question ask-ing about the issues working people in Gainesville must face.
Powell, who currently earns 
about $15 an hour as a bookkeep-er, doesn’t agree with Warren that working people are doing well. She said she’s running for the city com-mission seat to fight for the workers who are underpaid and forgotten.
“There’s a lot of people living 
paycheck to paycheck, who don’t have health insurance and are struggling. Right now, we don’t re-ally have anyone on the commission that’s hearing them,” Powell said. “People need representation.”
Powell said although she’s excit-
ed about the prospect of teaming up 
with UF to improve life in Gainesville 
and creating more affordable hous-ing options for students, she wants to make sure low-income workers are supported first.
“In Gainesville, you’re compet-
ing with students who sometimes are just working for beer money,” Powell said. 
Powell said although Warren 
obviously has more government 
experience than her, the incumbent 
hasn’t accomplished enough for her experience to be meaningful.
“My one campaign promise is 
that when I win, in three years, if I can’t run on the record of what I’ve managed to accomplish, I will not run for re-election,” Powell said.
A large part of her campaign plat-
form is devoted to creating a more transparent city commission, she said. She plans to do so by support-ing an anti-corruption bill to keep big money political action commit-tees out of local elections as well as making her votes available to the public.“Our trust in government and our 
trust in elected officials is really low. We can’t function like that,” Pow-
ell said. “It’s important that people 
have confidence in their elected of-ficials.”
Joy Pitts, an activist who met 
Powell through local organizations, agrees that the city commission needs to be more transparent in its dealings.
“She really believes in that open-
door policy, having it be a lot more transparent, which I think is defi-nitely needed in a city where citizens wants their voice to be heard,” Pitts, 34, said. “I think that’s important.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
Helen Warren
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
A passion for serving others led 
Helen Warren to Gainesville politics.
Having worked with local com-
munity organizations that benefit the environment, the elderly and at-
risk children since earning her bach-
elor’s and master’s degrees from UF, Warren decided running for the at-large city commission seat in 2014 was a better way to make an impact. 
Now, with three years of experi-
ence, she’s hoping to continue her efforts in helping diminish Gaines-ville’s large economic and educa-
tional disparity as part of her re-elec-
tion campaign for the seat.“I’m looking at a bigger picture 
because of my understanding of how complex the city system is,” 
Warren, 63, said. “My life experi-
ences are a little bit broader, too.”
Warren said she believes her past 
term has given her a deeper under-standing of the city’s complex bud-get, which will aid her in creating solutions to issues such as home-lessness, population increase, high utility costs and livable minimum 
wages.
She said she also hopes to work 
with UF on a strategic plan to im-
prove life in Gainesville, which would ideally include UF students volunteering to work with the off-campus community.“In order to make a change, 
we’re going to need people to vol-unteer and find ways to help mentor 
and provide guidance at every age 
level,” Warren said. 
Warren said one of her goals is 
to work with other commissioners to amend the living wage ordinance and alter the current budget to raise the current minimum wage of $12.25 to $15 an hour for all work-ers in Gainesville, including tempo-
rary employees.
“There’s nobody with a greater 
passion to get all of our workers up 
to $15,” Warren said.
However, Jeremiah Tattersall, 
lead organizer of the Alachua Coun-ty Labor Coalition, has worked with Warren in the past and said he was disappointed when she didn’t raise wages for part-time, seasonal and 
temporary workers during her first 
term.
He said if Warren is re-elected, 
he would love the opportunity to work with her in achieving a mutual living wage goal — he just doesn’t believe she has a plan to do so.
“I know she’s a good person, and 
this is something that means a lot 
to her, but I don’t believe she’s that 
effective of a commissioner if she can’t come up with some sort of a plan,” Tattersall said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
Candidates for Gainesville City Commission — District 3
David Arreola
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
David Arreola wants to repre-
sent immigrants in Gainesville.
The 26-year-old first-generation 
Mexican-American is running for District 3’s seat because he wants 
to represent the immigrant com-
munity and be a voice for stu-dents and residents under 30. His district, which encompases Butler Plaza and residential areas along Archer Road, is mainly populated by immigrants and students, he said.
As a native of Gainesville, he 
graduated from F.W. Buchholz 
High School before he majored in political science at Flagler College. 
He received a master’s at Saint Leo University.
“Being a first-generation Amer-
ican, especially growing up in Ala-chua County, it really insulates you from local politics,” he said.
Arreola said Gainesville was a 
welcoming community when his parents emigrated to the city in the ‘80s. His father is now a radiolo-gist at UF Health Shands Hospital 
and his mother is a professor at 
Santa Fe College.
“At first they didn’t speak the 
language too well, but Gainesville was such a welcoming place,” Arreola said.  
He said he feels the city com-mission lacks representation of other minorities. He said the gov-erning bodies have inclusivity 
problems.
“This is a major, major issue,” 
he said. “I think my candidacy is 
very timely.”
Although he has publicly 
supported the efforts to make Gainesville a welcoming city, he said more needs to be done to ease concerns of the immigrant 
community.
“If what it takes is making a po-
litical statement about becoming a 
sanctuary city, then so be it,” he said.
With negative statements from 
President Donald Trump and poli-cies toward immigrants, he said, the community is concerned.
“A city cannot live this way 
with a population living in fear,” he said.
Ken Cornell, an Alachua Coun-
ty commissioner, said Arreola would represent younger residents and immigrants. On issues like corporate welfare and the biomass contract, he agreed with Arreola.
“He is thoughtful, he is thor-
ough, he spends the time that is necessary to research the issues,” Cornell said. “He really listens to what the people are saying.”
@Merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
Craig Carter
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
An elderly man inspired Craig 
Carter’s bid for re-election. 
He ran into the man while walk-
ing through the Porters neighbor-
hood near Depot Avenue last year. The man, who Carter declined to name for privacy reasons, said he was surprised a city commissioner was willing to walk with him on the way back to his house. 
“That was very sad to me be-
cause that’s exactly what a city commissioner is supposed to do,” Carter said. 
The 56-year-old commercial re-altor, who was elected to District 3 in 2014, said if he’s re-elected 
in today’s city commission elec-
tion, he wants to lower utility bills, make sure his district is well-rep-resented in commission and make Gainesville friendly for businesses. Carter is running against David Arreola for the seat, which covers 34th Street and Interstate 75.
“I’m very proud of what I’ve 
done, and I’ve always told the truth,” Carter said. “Whether I win or lose, I’m not going to change who I am.”
In the past, Carter has owned 
several companies, including a golf cart business, a medical supply company and a construction busi-ness that did work for people with 
disabilities. This work in business, 
he said, showed him how to work with all different types of people.
“I want diversity in thinking on 
the city commission,” Carter said. “If all seven of us thought alike, it’d be a disaster.”
He said he wants to continue lis-
tening to and helping Gainesville’s people. He considers himself one of the most accessible commission-ers, giving out his personal cell-phone number on his official busi-ness card.
Mason Alley, Carter’s former 
campaign manager in 2014, said Carter was always open to hearing new ideas. He said he may have 
disagreed with Carter about some 
issues, like his endorsement of the Wild Spaces and Public Places tax, but that’s a good thing — Mason said Carter doesn’t make ideologi-cally driven decisions.
“What is interesting about Craig 
is the fact that he really, I think, represents in a lot of ways, what Gainesville should be striving for,” Alley said. “And I think we need more folks that are like that.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
* LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION *2 bedroom apt with wood floors and large screened porch located between UF and Downtown. $790/mth. Available March. 302 NW 7th Terr. Call 870-2760.     3-23-17-15-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-15-17-45-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
TEACHER FOR 1 yr old & 4 yr old
CLASSES FT/PT. Prefer experience with 45 
DCF hours and a FCCPC. $8.75 - $12 / hr. 
Call 352-375-8900     3-16-5-14
Marketing Representative wanted
Full time. Must me self-motivated and outgo-
ing. Please email resume to:
office@servproacw.com.      3-16-17-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS 
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from April – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-17-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Past due
5 Place for a safe9 Connery and
McCartney
13 “Don’t rub __”14 Geometry
calculations
16 Cool one’s heels17 *Performer’s exit
direction
19 Award for “Game
of Thrones”
20 Dangerous
Amazon fish
21 “Scotch” sealers23 See 47-Down24 *Immediately27 Handed out cards29 Oakland
Coliseum player
30 *High stadium tier34 Start of a
choosing rhyme
35 Step on it,
quaintly
36 Form 1099 ID
37 President pro __
40 Stretchy
bandage brand
41 Damage43 *Sports bet
based on totalpoints scored
46 Vote out of office49 Totally thrill50 *Like most TV
dramas
52 Speaks, biblically55 Texas shrine56 Almond or cashew
58 Luke Skywalker,
for one
60 In advance, and
where you might
find both parts ofthe answers tostarred clues
62 “Absolutely!”63 Schussing spot64 Novelist Ferber65 Starts to blossom66 Watches67 Paper quantity
DOWN
1 Speak like
Sylvester
2 Storage space
accessed via the
ceiling3 Pageant
accessory
4 “Prepare to duel!”5 “Sour to the
People” extremecandy brand
6 “Carmen”
highlight
7 A joker might pull
yours
8 Christine of “The
Blacklist”
9 Honey
10 “My parents are
gonna kill me!”
11 Glass edge
12 Mess of a room
15 Drummer Ringo18 Joins22 Free TV spot24 Fraud watchdog
org.
25 Stolen jewelry
seller
26 Onion ring 
maker
28 Jay with jokes30 “Yup”
31 Steinway, for one
32 Convinced33 “Hooked on
Classics” co.38 Crossword
solver’s smudges
39 Change
genetically
42 Small falcons
44 Really relax, with
“out”
45 Reply to bad
alternatives
47 With 23-Across,
priced separately,on menus48 Crypts, e.g.51 December 
songs
53 Swap
54 Reddish-orange
dye
56 “Don’t think so”
57 Red-coated
cheese
58 Fast punch
59 Australian bird61 Nemesis
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/14/1703/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, March 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
22 Tickets
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Softball game canceled
The Gators softball team was scheduled to go for a sweep of Missouri on 
Monday night, but the game was canceled due to rain. The game will not 
be rescheduled. Florida's next game will be played at home on Wednesday against North Dakota State. J.C. Deacon, coach of Florida's 
men's golf team, called his team's weekend performance "terrible. " Find out why on pg. 16By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer
Following FSU’s win over Flor-
ida in the 2016 NCAA Super Re-
gionals, Seminoles manager Mike 
Martin proved to be prophetic. 
“I really wish I could really 
say that was an important win,” 
he said after his team shut out 
the Gators in Game 1 of the three-
game series. “It’s not over.”
He was right. It wasn’t over. In the next two games, the 
Gators took revenge against the 
Seminoles, shutting them out 
twice to advance to the College World Series. 
Beating FSU was a common 
practice for UF a season ago, as Florida took ﬁ  ve of six games from its in-state rival. But that was a different team. 
That team entered its ﬁ  rst 
matchup with Florida State ranked No. 1 with a record of 17-1, while the Seminoles were ranked No. 11. This season, roles 
are reversed. 
No. 5 Florida will enter its ﬁ  rst 
matchup against FSU of 2017 to-
night at 6:30 with a record of 12-5. The No. 2 Seminoles, meanwhile, 
will arrive in Gainesville with a 
13-3 record and their last win be-ing a 13-0 stomping of Boston Col-lege on Sunday.
Florida is coming off a rough 
spring break during which it lost consecutive games to No. 21 Florida Gulf Coast and took two of three from Seton Hall. Entering 
the series ﬁ  nale with Seton Hall, 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan, in an un-usual display of urgency for such a young season, called it a “must-
win game.” 
But Florida won that game, 
and it had its pitching to thank. 
Sophomore starter Brady Singer allowed two earned runs in six in-nings before the bullpen — led by freshman Kirby McMullen — shut out Seton Hall to ﬁ  nish the job. 
The bullpen was one area 
O’Sullivan was proud of following the game, and understandably so. The Gators rank second in the SEC with a team ERA of 2.45. Howev-
er, he was critical of another area. 
“I can’t say enough about our 
freshmen arms out of the pen,” he 
said in a release. “Garrett Milchin is awesome. Tyler Dyson was great again. Kirby McMullen did a nice job tonight. 
“We’ve just got to get our of-
fense going.”
Florida’s offense has been 
largely ineffective all season. The Gators rank in the SEC’s bottom three in every major offensive 
category aside from home runs. 
And against the Seminoles, who sport a 2.50 team ERA, O’Sullivan knows hitting will be even more critical than it usually is, though he remains conﬁ  dent that he can jumpstart UF’s offense. 
“We will,” he said. “But it is 
getting to a point now where we’re going to have to settle in on a lineup. We’ve given a lot of guys different chances and we’ll settle 
in on the 10-12 guys and we’ll go 
with it and continue to work at it.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org 
UF  baseball hoping to rev up oﬀ  ense against FSU  
By   Lauren   Staff 
Sports   Writer 
 
As   soon   as   Sierra   Alexander   
stuck   her   vault   landing   on   Fri-
day,   a   huge   smile   spread   across   her face. It   was   the   first   time   she   had   
done   that   at   the   college   level. 
For   the   first   four   weeks   of   the   
season,   the   freshman   was   forced   to   watch   her   team   compete   from the   sidelines. 
But   when   illness   and   injury   depleted   Florida’s   roster,   the   
Fort   Lauderdale   native   made   her   
debut   in the   vault   lineup   at   Ala-bama   on   Feb.   3   and   never   left. 
Alexander   competed   in   all   
but   one   of   the   next   five   meets. 
So   when   she   earned  a  colle-giate-best   9.875   for   her   yurchen-ko   full   that   night   in   the   Gators’   regular season   finale,   it   was   a   testament   to    how   hard   she   had   
worked   to   stay   in   the   lineup   
since   that matchup   with   the   Crimson Tide. 
“This   one   kind   of   sets   herself   
apart   from   everyone   else,”   Flori-da   coach   Jenny   Rowland   said   on Monday.  
 “After   that   competition   you   
weren’t   going   to   stop   her.   …   We   
don’t   train   vault   every day, but   
she   does.” 
With   the   help   of   Alexander,   
as   well   as   improvement   with-in   the   lineup,   the   Gators   have   nearly mastered   the   event.  Gators gymnastics team excelling on vault ahead of SEC meetIT'S COHEN DOWN
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Min-
utes after defeating Georgia to 
advance to the SEC semifinals, 
Kentucky coach John Calipari 
was asked a question.
“Do you think Georgia is a 
tournament team?” 
It’s a question spoken in 
shorthand, understood by col-lege basketball players, coaches, fans and followers. 
In other words, do you think 
Georgia will make the NCAA Tournament?
“They deserve it,” Calipari 
said. “I believe that.”
He was speaking just one 
week before the NCAA Tourna-ment, college basketball’s pre-mier postseason championship competition. Sixty-eight teams 
are selected from around the 
country for a chance at advanc-ing to the NCAA Championship game in a single elimination for-
mat.
And for one week in early 
March, every college basketball 
coach in America is obsessed with it.March 
Madness is 
both fun and 
complicated 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kevin O'Sullivan speaks to an umpire prior to Florida's win over Miami on Feb. 25 at McKethan 
Stadium. “We’ve just got to get our offense going, " O'Sullivan said recently. 
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb
The competition starts Saturday  14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
But they also struggle to un-
derstand it.
During last year’s SEC Tour-
nament, SEC coaches lamented 
the inconsistent conditions by which the NCAA selection com-
mittee chose which teams to let 
in and which ones to shun. 
Before games, after losses and 
during halftime interviews, the central focus of the SEC Tourna-
ment was on the tournament that 
came right after.
And this year’s tournament 
was no exception.
For the most part, member 
teams of the SEC believe that they are underrepresented in the NCAA field each year. Coaches scour statistics and numbers 
— strength of schedule, Rating 
Percentage Index (RPI), head-to-head records — in hopes of figuring out the formula used by 
the committee to decide which 
teams get sent to the Big Dance.
Some find it harder to under-
stand than others.
“I struggle with it,” South 
Carolina coach Frank Martin said after South Carolina was elimi-nated in 2016. “I’m not real in-telligent, but I struggle with it.”
Last year, just three SEC 
teams made it into the NCAA Tournament — Kentucky, Texas A&M and Vanderbilt.
On Sunday, five SEC teams 
made it — Kentucky, Florida, Arkansas, Vanderbilt and South Carolina.
Last week, SEC Player of the 
Year and Gamecocks forward Sindarius Thornwell was asked what he understands about how teams are let into the NCAA Tournament.
“You know, I don’t know,” 
Thornwell said “I don’t really know how the RPI, wins, losses thing goes.”
And it’s not just players who 
don’t understand how their post-season fate is decided. At last year’s SEC Tournament, Calipari bashed the selection committee 
ad nauseam.“What disappoints me is that 
there are teams that lost, like 
some of our (SEC) teams have, and all of a sudden, it’s okay. They’re in,” Calipari said. “And 
then one of our teams loses, they 
go from eligible to first four out (of the tournament). You’re like, I don’t get it.” 
But maybe the most outspo-
ken coach at last year’s tourna-ment was Martin.
“I don’t care what anyone 
else has to say. I don’t care what 
their opinions are,” he said. 
“I’d like to see a lot of these 
so-called teams that got better 
looking numbers than us play 
in our league 18 games and see 
what their record would be at the end of the year.”
The mood at this year’s tour-
nament was more of the same.
And I find myself agreeing 
with the coaches.
Each year there are teams 
who are left out of the tourna-
ment who feel they should have 
made it, and teams that made it who may not be as deserving as others.
But, I get it — the selection 
system is complex. It’s intricate. 
But it is obviously flawed. So, selection committee, start 
here: After all 68 tournament 
teams are announced, publicly 
release a short, written expla-nation detailing why each team was allowed in. 
And for all the teams who 
didn’t quite make it (say, for ex-ample, the last 10 bubble teams), provide a short explanation for why they weren’t quite good 
enough in the committee’s eyes.
At the very least, it’ll help 
coaches and players understand 
what they didn’t do well enough to earn a shot at an NCAA Cham-
pionship, and what they need to 
do better for next year.
It’s not perfect. It’s not a per-
manent solution.
But for an admittedly limited 
selection system trying to choose between hundreds of schools across the nation, at least it’s a start.COLUMN,  from pg. 13By Sean Denison
Sports Writer
Rachel Madden was the last 
Florida athlete to qualify for the 
NCAA Championships. It was also 
a first for the diver.  
To qualify, Madden had to 
place within the top 10 in the 
1-meter dive. In the prelims, she 
finished sixth with a score of 
282.50, and later placed 10th  in 
the finals, putting up a score of 545.40 and earning her way into the NCAA finals. 
The Gators women’s swimming 
and diving team will send eight additional athletes to compete at the NCAA Championships, being held in Indianapolis from March 
15-18. 
The nine 
Gators who will 
compete are Emma Ball, Han-
nah Burns, Sa-
vanna Faulcon-
er, Kelly Fertel, Autumn Finke, Kay Sargent, 
Sydney Sell, Alyssa Yambor-Maul and Madden.
The Gators are sending four 
freshmen — Ball, Faulconer,  Fer-tel and Sargent — to the NCAA Championship meet, which is tied for the second most out of the 62 teams competing in Indianapolis. Faulconer, Fertel and Sargent 
are competing together in the 
400-yard individual medley, and 
Ball is competing in the 100-yard backstroke. Faulconer will also compete in the 500-yard freestyle 
event, while Fertel will swim in 
the 200 individual medley. 
“It’s a good thing for the fu-
ture,” coach Gregg Troy said after the Last Chance Meet in late Feb-ruary. “But they’re gonna have to find out how to put it in a little bit more of a pressure cooker situ-ation.” 
The NCAA meet, which Troy 
was referring to as the “pressure cooker situation,” is a good op-portunity for the Gators women’s team to gain experience on the big 
stage. However, alongside their 
four freshmen, the Gators will 
have three swimmers who have competed at the NCAA Champion-ship before. 
Both Yambor-Maul and Fin-
ke have competed at the NCAA Championship in three of their years at UF. Sophomore Hannah Burns, who qualified as a fresh-man last year, will be competing in her second-straight NCAA meet.  
“The NCAA meet is a little 
different dynamic,” Troy said. “There’s no swimmers that got there by accident. You had to re-ally perform to do it. Everything is a lot tighter.”The Gators women’s team, de-
spite finishing the season losing its last two meets and finishing sev-
enth in the SEC Championship in 
February, is going into the NCAA 
Championship with confidence. 
After performing well at the 
Last Chance Meet, Troy was 
pleased with the direction of the 
women's team.
“We got a little more confi-
dence on the women’s side,” he 
said. “They raced so well even 
though they’re a little inexperi-
enced. The big plus for them long 
term showed us what we can do.”
@seandenison
sdenison@alligator.org
Gators women's swimming and diving team to compete at NCAAs
Madden
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
After blanking No. 24 South 
Carolina 4-0, the Gators women’s 
tennis team didn’t celebrate. Play-ers didn’t jump up and down, nor did they scream down the court. While obviously happy with the 
win, Florida appeared all business 
— just how coach Roland Thorn-qvist likes it. 
“If you have a really good team, 
I think it’s to your advantage to be less emotional,” he said. “You’ll be able to play at a higher level if you take emotion out of it.”
With a veteran team dead set 
on reaching the NCAA finals in May, No. 1 Florida has maintained a strict focus all season. With a 12-0 record and three consecutive 
sweeps, it appears to have paid off. 
“It’s a very competitive team. 
That’s no question. We don’t want 
to give anybody an inch,” Thorn-qvist said. “These players are hun-
gry. You can definitely sense that.”
The Gators will carry that hun-
ger and determination with them 
when they travel to Orlando today 
to face No. 2 Ohio State. 
Boasting a 14-1 record and 
housing the No. 1 player in the 
nation, Ohio State is on par with Florida this season. Combined, the 
Buckeyes have dropped 11 match-
es in the course of this season com-pared to Florida dropping eight. 
Thornqvist says that the Buck-
eyes have a deep team, able to score at every position. And with 
games against No. 13 Georgia on 
Friday and No. 16 Tennessee on Sunday, the Gators are making a point not to overlook this game. 
Florida’s doing that by putting 
in extra effort. Practicing on Sun-day, a day the Gators normally take off, Thornqvist said the team was all business, training hard with great attitudes. And with a 
busy week ahead of them, the 
Gators are focusing on themselves above all. 
“We worry about the Gators 
more than anything else,” Thorn-
qvist said. “If we can make sure 
we feel good about our game, then we should be matching up pretty okay with just about anyone.”
This is a necessary approach, 
as the Gators have faced increased pressure as the season has worn on. Continuing its demanding schedule with multiple top-25 
teams still on the horizon, Florida has put an emphasis on its mental 
game. 
“You got to win with your head 
and legs sometimes and make good decisions,” Thornqvist said. “I think we’re doing that right now. We’re learning to play the 
right way under pressure.”
This may be something Florida 
will be forced to continue as it fac-
es Ohio State today at 6:30 p.m. at 
the UTSA national campus in Or-
lando. 
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
UF looking to continue business 
mindset against No. 2 Ohio State
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Roland Thornqvist looks on during UF's win over Oklahoma State 
on Feb. 18 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
MEN'S GOLF
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
 When coach JC Deacon walked 
into his press conference on Mon-
day after a disappointing trip to Las Vegas, he didn’t mince words. 
“We were terrible,” he said. 
“(Our play) cost us the week.”
At the Southern Highlands In-
vitational, the Gators men's golf 
team ended the weekend at 20 
over, 31 strokes behind victorious 
Southern California. Florida’s play 
was only good enough for a ninth-
place ﬁ  nish, highlighted by a 15-over 303 on the second day of the tournament.In a press release after the sec-
ond round, Dea-
con said it was 
a disappointing day for the whole team. 
“We had a 
chance to go 
out and execute 
all of the things 
we have been working on the last 
three weeks, but we weren’t able to do that, and our scores showed the results,” he said. “We’re at a big moment in the season as we’re ﬁ  nding out what this team is 
all about. We’ll see what kind of 
toughness we have tomorrow.”The struggles were evident by 
the scores across the board. Ale-
jandro Tosti cooled off after hot 
start to the spring, ﬁ  nishing tied for 32nd at 6 over. Freshman Andy Zhang shot 8-over, good enough for a share of 36th place. And Gor-don Neale and Ryan Celano shared 
53rd place after both shot duplicate 
rounds throughout the tournament (74, 78, 75).
Despite the struggles of the 
team, one Gator was able to turn the weekend into a positive. Sam Horsﬁ  eld, the sophomore out of Davenport, Florida, shot 2 under 
during the three-day tournament, 
placing him in a tie for 12th place.Deacon had high praises for 
Horsﬁ  eld despite a poor perfor-
mance from the rest of the team. 
“Sam (Horsﬁ  eld), from every-
thing that I can see, he’s playing 
his best golf right now,” he said. “He hasn’t had that really low round yet, but it’s coming. And if 
it doesn’t come this week, I’m sure 
it’ll come next week in Vanderbilt.”
With their worst performance of 
the year behind them, the Gators will look to bounce back this week-
end at the Schenkel Invitational, 
hosted by Georgia Southern Uni-
versity in Statesboro, Georgia.
Although a change in results has 
occurred from the Fall to the Spring 
season, expectations haven’t shift-ed. 
“We just have too good of a 
team to string three bad weeks in a row,” Deacon said. “I’m expecting 
a great week, and we’re just going 
to go and a have a lot of fun and spend a lot of time together and see 
what happens.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org  'We were terrible': Deacon reﬂ  ects after diﬃ   cult loss
Deacon
They   are   tied   with   Okla-
homa   as   the   second   highest-
scoring   team   in   the   country   
on   the   apparatus, trailing   
only   LSU. 
When   Florida   begins   its   
postseason   run   on   Satur-day   at   the    SEC   Gymnastics   
Championships   in Jackson-ville,    Rowland   is   looking   for   her   team   to   continue   that   dominance   from   the   regular   season not   only   on   the   vault   but   all   around. 
As   the   reigning   SEC   Cham-
pions,   the   Gators   have   even   more   pressure   to   try   and   re-peat   their success   from   last   year   against   stiff   competi-tion   within   their   conference. 
Four   SEC   teams   are   
ranked   in   the   top 10  nation-ally,   and   seven   of   the   eight   
teams   in   the conference   are   
in   the   top-25. 
However,   going   against   
that   level   of   competition    al-
most   every   weekend   for   the   last   nine   weeks has   seasoned   Florida’s   athletes   heading   into   the   most   important   part   of   the season. 
“SEC   is,   in   my   opinion,   
the   toughest   conference   in   college   gymnastics,”   Row-land   said.   “There   is no   down   week-
end.   …   I   think   it   just   helps   our   athletes   learn   how   to   compete.” 
But   while   the   Gators’   only   
two   losses   this   season   came   
against  teams   they   will   face   
in   the   SEC   meet —   Alabama   
and   LSU   —   they   are   looking   forward   to   the   challenge   and   opportunity   to   redeem them-selves. 
“This   team   thrives   on   SEC   
weekend,”   Rowland   said.   “It   is   one   of,   it   not   the   most,   ex-citing   meets   of the   year.” 
 
@lstaff27 
lstaff@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg.13Seven of eight SEC teams are 
ranked in the top 25 nationally
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Sierra Alexander prepares to execute her vault routine during Florida's win 
over Missouri on Feb. 24 in the O'Connell Center. 
“W e just have too good of a 
team to string three bad weeks 
in a row.”
J.C. Deacon
UF men's golf coach