We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 7 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
Veteran DB looks to lead
After Florida’s loss to Michigan, safety Nick 
Washington is tasked with teaching a young 
unit. Read the story, pg 14. 
Headstands for cancer awareness
A social media campaign aims to raise money, pg 5. 
GAU, UF still at standstill 
Months past deadline, contract negotiations are ongoing , pg 4.FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
PRESIDENT DONALD 
TRUMP MAY REMOVE THE 
PROTECTION.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
The day Giancarlo Tejeda 
learned he would receive DACA, his mother wept.
She and her husband brought Tejeda and his brother to the U.S. 
from Colombia when Tejeda was 
only 3 years old, hoping for a bet-
ter life. Tejeda said his family had 
more peace of mind after receiving Deferred Action for Childhood Ar-
rivals, a program that lets students 
brought to the U.S. as young chil-
dren work and attend school.
But now Tejeda’s peace of mind 
is gone.“We’re seeing our fears come to 
life,” the 20-year-old UF biomedi-
cal engineering junior said. “We’re 
fearing for our lives as we know it 
and our families.”
On Tuesday morning, President 
Donald Trump ended DACA and said protections would phase out 
in six months, according to the 
New York Times. 
Tejeda said he got the notiﬁ  -cation while in class and was im-
mediately angry. He wants to help 
somehow but doesn’t know what 
he can do. 
“This administration, President 
Trump, felt that it was okay to 
erase this program that was help-
ing so many Dreamers, so many 
people, obtain a better life,” Tejeda 
said. 
There are nearly 790,000 people with DACA protections, according 
to the Pew Research Center. UF 
spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote 
in an email that UF does not track 
how many of its students have DACA. 
DACA offers a chance to go 
about life without fear of deporta-
tion, Tejeda said. To beneﬁ  t from DACA uncertainty causes fear for undocumented students
SEE DACA,  PAGE 4By Jessica Giles and 
Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writers
Residents from the Caribbe-
an to Gainesville are on edge 
and preparing for a possible 
hit by Category 5 Hurricane 
Irma.
The hurricane has maxi-
mum sustained wind speeds 
of 185 miles per hour, accord-ing to the National Hurricane 
Center. Forecasts are unsure where and when the storm 
will land. Governor Rick Scott 
tweeted he declared a state of emergency in Florida on Mon-day. The storm is one of the 
strongest to form in the Atlan-
tic and is only surpassed in wind speeds by 1980’s Hurri-cane Allen, CNN reported.
Alachua County Emergency Response Team met Tuesday to discuss the county’s plan for the hurricane, according to 
an Alachua County Emergency 
Management Facebook post. The county is under a state of emergency. 
The City of Gainesville will 
hold an emergency opera-tions meeting sometime this week, said Chip Skinner, a city spokesperson. Skinner encour-aged Gainesville residents to assemble hurricane supplies, including enough food and 
water for 72 hours. 
“(The city is) well pre-
pared,” he said. “People just 
need to make sure that they’re 
prepared at their homes.”
After shoppers emptied-
shelves Tuesday afternoon, 
most Gainesville Walmart and Gainesville, UF prepares for Hurricane Irma
Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff 
LaT eresa Shearill, a 36-year-old engineer, searches the empty shelves of Walmart in preparation for Hurricane Irma.
THE VEHICLES MAY BE USED AS 
EARL Y AS FALL 2018.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
By next Fall, students traveling between 
downtown and UF’s campus might have a chance to ride autonomous RTS shuttle buses.
The City of Gainesville proposed a bid Aug. 
28 to supply self-driving vehicles for Gators Autonomous Transit Shuttle, or GAToRS, said Chip Skinner, an RTS spokesperson. 
The city’s proposed bid is for ﬁ  rms and 
vendors that can provide the vehicles to RTS, he said. 
Skinner said the shuttles will travel on a 
route along Southwest 2nd Avenue and South-
west 4th Avenue between the Southwest 13th 
Street border of UF and South Main Street in downtown.
Shuttles, which can carry 12 to 16 passen-
gers, will be tested on smaller roads by next Fall before they’ll ride major routes. Skinner said the project is an opportunity to push Gainesville into the future. 
“The intent is to put Gainesville and the 
University of Florida on the map,” Skinner said. 
The project, which is funded by the Florida 
Department of Transportation, is a joint ef-
fort between Regional Transit System, the UF 
Transportation Institute and the FDOT.
RTS did not disclose the exact funding 
amount because the transit system doesn’t want bidders to compare their offers to the 
state’s grant funding, said RTS director Jesus 
Gomez. 
Tiana Banda, an 18-year-old UF chemistry 
freshman, said she’d be excited to try out the 
shuttles. 
“I’d be down as long as they make trav-
eling more efﬁ  cient, and don’t add to my tu-
ition,” Banda said. 
dhoffman@alligator.org RTS driverless 
buses in works
SEE IRMA,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Online Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  83° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Blackadder Brewing Kick off 
NFL Football Season 
The Blackadder Brewing 
Company is hosting a kick off 
event for the first game of the NFL season on Thursday from 8:30 p.m. to 12 midnight at 
818-A NW 60th St. The Kansas 
City Chiefs versus the New England Patriots game starts at 8:30 p.m., but arrive early to claim a seat. There will be 
food at the Soup to Nuts food 
truck. 
GatorNights: Miami Beach
Find your groove at GatorNights: Miami Beach this Friday. Miami-born acous-tic artist Juan Alonzo will be performing in the Orange & 
Brew at 9 p.m. UF’s annual 
Multicultural Greek Council Showcase will take place in the Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. On the North Lawn Terrace there 
will be mechanical surfing, 
and a place to decorate flip flops. Don’t forget about the free craft in the arts and craft 
center on the lower level of 
the Reitz. Critically-acclaimed "Wonder Woman," starring Gal Gadot, will be showing in the Reitz Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is 
always Friday, always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate 
and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the 
event. 
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in Entomology Building Room 1031. Meetings are free 
to attend and open to all. Visit 
talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org for more informa-tion. 
English and Citizenship Classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program offers free English and citizen-
ship classes at the Millhopper 
Branch Library, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. Classes will be Tuesday evenings at 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through October 26. For more information or to register, visit latinawomens-league.org or email info@lati-nawomensleague.org. 
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad Fair at the Reitz Union North 
Lawn on Sept. 20 from 10 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. UF study abroad pro-gram directors and indepen-dent program providers will 
have table displays and be 
available to answer questions. Former study abroad students will share their international experiences.  The UF Study 
Abroad Services staff will be 
available to explain the appli-cation process and to help stu-dents find the right program. 
Overseas internship opportuni-
ties are available. Study abroad can be used to satisfy summer residency requirements and most financial aid can be used. 
For more information visit 
ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539. 
Apply to be an Assistant 
Supervisor of Elections for UF Student GovernmentApply to be a part of the Fall 2017 UF Student Government 
elections team as an assis-
tant supervisor of elections. Multiple assistants will work with the supervisor of elec-
tions in planning and holding 
elections for 50 senators based on where students reside in Gainesville. Visit sg.ufl.edu/get-involved/apply and select 
the “executive” link to apply 
no later than Friday at 4 p.m. Contact Supervisor of Elections Erica Baker at elections@
sg.ufl.edu with any questions.
LeadUF applications
 LeadUF is based on the un-
derstanding that leadership is 
a lifelong journey developed 
by our experiences and en-gagement in the community and world. The 2017 program 
through the David and Wanda 
Brown Center for Leadership and Service has been ex-panded to a semester-long, foundational leadership expe-
rience designed specifically 
for first- and second-year stu-dents, where participants will learn about, reflect on and 
develop their personal leader-
ship framework. Please apply to the program by Friday, and visit bit.ly/lead-uf for more in-formation.
Stand-up comedy show at High 
DiveEric Schwartz is a comedian, musician and content cre-ator. In addition to television 
appearances on Showtime, 
the Tonight Show, Comics Unleashed, BET and his one-hour special, “Surrender to the 
Blender,” on Hulu, Schwartz 
is known for his popular digi-tal stand-up clips, sketches and parody videos. He will be performing at High Dive, 
located at 210 SW 2nd Ave., 
on Tuesday from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Tickets for general seat-ing are $12 in advance, $14 the 
day of the show.  
 
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21
The David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and 
Service is holding a Fall 2017 
Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join several hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service 
for a wide variety of non-prof-
its, including Keep Alachua Beautiful, ACORN Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching 
Lab), Wilmont Gardens, The 
Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more in-formation, call (352) 392-1215, 
email cls@leadershipandser-
vice.ufl.edu, or visit bit.ly/daysofservice. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 7WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Alex Watson Tremellen 
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the past two years, UF has 
dropped in Times Higher Educa-
tion World University Rankings. 
UF ranked No. 143 this year, 
a decrease from UF’s previous 
ranking of 134.
The rankings are based on ﬁ  ve 
categories: teaching, research, ci-
tations, international outlook and industry income, according to the Times Higher Education website. Of those ﬁ  ve areas, UF dropped 
in the teaching and citations cat-
egory. 
Of Florida universities, UF is 
ﬁ  rst, followed by the University of Miami and then Florida State University. 
The largest increase came 
from the industry income cat-egory, with a score of 80.7 out of 
100, an increase of 15 points from last year’s score of 65.7. The in-
dustry income category examines how much research income a 
university earns compared to the 
number of staff employed.
UF remained stagnant in its 
overall score of 56.6.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlan-
do said he could not provide an exact reason for why UF dropped in this year’s rankings.
“As to what the cause was, it is 
not entirely clear at the moment,” Orlando said. “We haven’t really had a chance to sit down and look at them, but we will in the 
near future.”
More universities were includ-
ed in this year’s rankings, which 
could be a possible reason for UF’s drop, Orlando said. Twenty-nine out of 62 U.S. institutions in the top 200 dropped in world rankings. 
Austin Buholtz, a business ad-
ministration freshman, believes the drop could be due to the loca-tion of UF. 
“We’re deﬁ  nitely the best 
university in the state, but re-gardless of our academics, you can’t change the location of the university,” the 18-year-old said. “There’s not a lot of opportuni-ty for job growth in Gainesville compared to universities in Cali-fornia, Massachusetts or New York.”
UF drops in global university ranking for a second yearLawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
SELF-CARE CAFE
From left: Sara Ryals, 35, Jennifer Kennymore, 32, Sarah McConnell, 32, and Zully Rivera-Ramos, 35, 
host a panel at Cafe con Self Care on Tuesday. Ryals and Kennymore, both health promotion specialists for GatorWell services, came to speak along with McConnell, a psychology intern at the Counseling and Wellness Center, and Rivera-Ramos, a psychologist with the center. The panel answered questions on how to handle stress and to practice self-care in times of crisis.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
An hour before the ﬁ  nal dead-
line, Lauren Latimer toyed with her 
folder while waiting for her inter-view.
“I’m not super nervous, be-
cause I do understand it’s a very competitive process,” the UF busi-ness administration freshman said.
Latimer was one of 223 stu-
dents who showed interest in be-coming Student Government Sen-ate candidates for Fall elections, where 50 seats will be ﬁ  lled based on residential location.
Erica Baker, the SG Supervisor 
of Elections, wrote in an email that 96 students spoke to Impact Party and 43 with Inspire Party at the Re-itz Union on Tuesday, which was the last of three days for students to register. 
Over the three days, 153 stu-
dents interviewed with Impact, 
and 66 interviewed with Inspire, 
a party formed this Fall. Two can-didates registered as independent, and two said they were undecided, Baker said.
In Fall 2016, the total number 
of interested students was slightly higher, with 227 students regis-tering. Impact had 213 students interested, while 14 registered as 
independent, according to Alligator 
archives.
Latimer said she wants to run 
with Impact for a seat representing Inﬁ  nity Hall, and if she gets elect-ed, one of her goals will be to add more lights by the hall.
She said she chose to interview 
with Impact because she’s seen  
students wearing the party’s shirts 
on campus.
“I want to meet people, and 
they’re really connected in the community,” the 18-year-old said.
Zachary Delaney, a UF sustain-
ability and the built environment freshman, said he thinks he was the ﬁ  rst to meet with Inspire at 8:30 
a.m. Friday. 
The 18-year-old said he chose 
Inspire because he likes that the 
party members believe in repre-senting their constituents, instead of their personal interests. 
“It wasn’t as stressful as I 
thought it would be,” he said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgMore than 200 
students apply for SG Senate candidacy4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017By Vincent McDonald
Alligator Contributing Writer
In hopes of increasing graducation rates, 
incoming freshmen on the autism spectrum 
can now find peer support while adjusting to college life. 
SOCIAL Gators, a program which began 
this Fall, offers peer mentorship and group meetings for new students on the spectrum. 
The program is a collaboration between 
UF’s Center for Autism and Related Disabili-ties (CARD), the Counseling and Wellness Center and the Disability Resource Center. It also includes academic counseling and a sec-tion of the First-year Florida course.
“The main goal is student retention and 
graduation,” Ann-Marie Orlando, associate director of CARD said. 
SOCIAL Gators will accept students at any 
time, Orlando wrote in an email. 
Every Friday, program directors meet with mentors and mentees for an hour-long discussion group. 
“It’s more of a weekly review to sort of 
touch base and talk about your week and any concerns that someone has,” Orlando said. 
At the second meeting Sept. 1, about 
five attendees spoke about communication 
through body language, including Mary 
Neill, a 20-year-old statistics and economics sophomore. 
Neill, who works with SOCIAL Gators, 
hopes the program will help students with communicating their needs, she said.
Through the mentorship program, men-
tees can get help in areas they might have trouble with, like introducing themselves 
to professors or getting involved in social 
events, Neill said. 
“The sort of social skills and the general 
anxieties that they’re talking about working on are things that I know I struggled with my first year,” Neill said. New program offers support for 
students on autism spectrum
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After two bargaining sessions in the past 
week between the Graduate Assistants Unit-
ed labor union and UF, no agreement was reached. 
The initial deadline for negotiating sti-
pend raises was June 27. At the latest meet-ing Tuesday, GAU presented a counter offer of a $16,000 minimum salary, a combined $750 stipend raise and fee relief for the first year, and a combined $650 for the second year. 
During the meeting, UF said they could 
agree to the higher minimum salary, a change from the current $15,000, if a deal 
were made. They offered a lower combina-
tion of $700, between stipend raises and in-creased fee relief, for the first year and $400 for the second year. 
Bobby Mermer, the GAU bargaining chair, said he was unable to agree to a deal without first speaking to other union members.
On Tuesday, graduate assistants spoke 
about their troubles with current stipend rates. 
“I don’t want to be promised something 
special; I want to be promised something 
liveable,” said Andrea Medina, a 24-year-old 
English master’s student. 
Bill Connellan, UF’s chief negotiator, said 
graduate students have been offered better raises than faculty and administration on campus for the last three years.
Mermer said even though raises for 
graduate students have been proportionally higher than other faculty, they started from 
a lower salary. 
“The package is not as generous as UF is 
making it seem,” Mermer said. 
rellenbogen@alligator.org
@romyellenbogenMonths past deadline GAU, UF 
fail to reach agreement
the program, the recipients fill 
out an application and pay a fee. The program needs to be renewed every two years, ac-cording to the Pew Center. 
Diana Moreno, the assistant 
director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, said she’s seen more students stressed and asking for resources, es-pecially in the past weeks. 
For Moreno, the fear and 
uncertainty of being undocu-mented is a fresh memory. 
Moreno came to the U.S. 
from Ecuador in 1999, when she was 11. Her swearing-in ceremony for citizenship will be Sept. 21 — 18 years after her family brought her over.
“These students are the 
hardest-working and most resilient students I have the pleasure to work with,” More-no said through tears. “And I just really hope personally that I will have the chance to con-tinue working with them and they continue contributing their talents to our university.”
She said there are unique 
struggles for undocumented students. They are unable to receive federal financial aid like most other students, she said. Other challenges are more emotional.
Hernandez, a 19-year-old 
undocumented UF student who requested her full name be omitted, expected Trump to end DACA, but she still cried over the news. 
Hernandez was born in 
Mexico and crossed the bor-der with her parents when she was 3.
“This is the only country 
we’ve ever known since we were young, and we don’t want to make it worse,” she said. “We want to make it bet-ter.”
Though Hernandez doesn’t 
know what’s next, she hopes Congress will pass a law grant-ing DACA recipients protec-tion.
“Being undocumented 
doesn’t define us,” she said. “We’ll keep fighting, and we’ll keep trying to find ways to make a better life for us.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
DACA,  from pg. 1Trump ended the 
program TuesdayBy Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer 
Applying for Student Government funding 
should now be easier for student organiza-
tions. 
At Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting, ap-
propriations committee chairperson Janae 
Moodie (Impact, Liberal Arts) said she made 
the online funding request form easier. She said she received at least one request each week that wasn’t filed completely.
“If I see a pattern in the errors that have 
been made, I think to myself, ‘What can I do to make this better?’” Moodie said. 
Moodie said she made the online funding 
request form easier by reducing five separate tabs to two tabs. 
Senators also unanimously approved more 
than $4,000 in funding for five student orga-
nizations on Tuesday. Funding approvals include $1,600 for 
Young Life, $1,000 for Gator Anime, $765 for 
the Student Information Security Team at UF, 
$624 for L.A.D.I.E.S. and $397 for Knitting 
Gators.
Moodie said her committee will hear six 
more funding requests Sunday.
During public debate, Zachariah Chou (In-
dependent, Infinity) shared his concerns for members in the UF community who were af-
fected by President Donald Trump’s decision to end DACA on Tuesday morning. 
The Deferred Action for Childhood Arriv-
als allows undocumented immigrants brought to the country at a young age to get temporary 
protections.
“Aside from comfort, the biggest resource 
is the UF website,” Chou said. “That might be helpful in this time of need.” 
jtavel@alligator.org 
@taveljimenaSG approves funding, makes online request form easier 
Publix stores expect to have more 
bottled water on Wednesday at about 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. 
City of Gainesville Public Works 
Department will distribute sand-bags at 405 NW 39th Ave. from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesday or until 
supplies run out. Each vehicle can 
pick up a maximum of 10 sandbags but people will be required to show proof of city residency, according to the city’s website.
No decisions have been made 
about whether or not shelters will be open, but Skinner said if shelters are needed, the primary ones will 
be Easton-Newberry Sports Com-
plex, located at 24880 NW 16th Ave., and the City of Gainesville/Alachua County Senior Recreation Center, located at 5701 NW 34th 
Blvd.
Alachua County Public Schools 
is meeting with ACEM twice a 
day, said Jackie Johnson, a ACPS 
spokesperson. Johnson said some 
of the schools may be used as shel-ters.
UF locations around the state are 
reviewing preparedness plans and 
may implement them by the end of 
the week, said Janine Sikes, a UF spokesperson. An emergency team operation meeting will be sched-
uled for later this week.Sikes said students shouldn’t 
be concerned about their safety in 
Gainesville. 
“I can tell you that Gainesville, 
and especially in the University of Florida, is one of the safer places you could be,” she said. “We have many of the things that students 
would need on campus.” 
The hospital and dining halls 
will be open, Sikes added. Shelter 
locations haven’t been determined, as of press time.
The status of Saturday’s football game is also unclear, but the Uni-versity Athletic Association is moni-toring the storm, Sikes said. 
Sunil Mahajan, a UF biology 
senior, said his roommate tried to buy water but, due to shortages, left with 5 gallons of soda and tonic water instead.
Whether or not the storm is as 
bad as people anticipate, Mahajan is hoping for one thing.
“I hope classes are cancelled,” he 
said. “That would be really nice.”IRMA,  from pg. 1City to distribute sandbags W ednesday 
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
The empty shelves of a local Gainesville Walmart, days before Hurri-
cane Irma strikes Florida. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE CHILD’S FATHER DIED 
OF AN OVERDOSE.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Jacksonville woman was arrested Mon-
day morning for abusing drugs in front of her 
4-year-old daughter before the child’s father died of an overdose, Gainesville Police said. 
Taylor Cheyenne Perry, 23, told police 
that she was going into rehabilitation for her substance abuse problem but wanted to have “one last drug binge,” according to an arrest report. 
Perry invited the child’s father, Joseph 
Beavins, 29, to join. Perry told police she was already high on methamphetamine when he arrived with their daughter at the Sleep Inn, located at 4110 SW 40th Blvd., on Sunday, ac-
cording to the report. 
Later that night, Perry and her daughter 
went to bed, but Beavins continued to use the drugs, according to the report. 
In the morning, the child woke Perry up 
because Beavins would not wake up. After re-
alizing Beavins was dead, 
Perry left the hotel with her daughter, according to the report. 
Perry called the hotel 
about an hour and a half after she left and told hotel staff to send an ambulance. 
Beavins was pronounced 
dead at 7:50 a.m., accord-
ing to the report. 
Drugs and drug paraphernalia were found 
in the hotel, which would have been well 
within reach of a 4-year-old, police said. 
Perry was arrested on a charge of child 
abuse and taken to the Alachua County Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $40,000 bond. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgGPD: Mom abused drugs in 
front of 4-year-old child 
Social media campaign raises awareness, funds for brain cancerHE WAITED INSIDE A STALL 
IN THE STARBUCKS 
WOMEN’S BATHROOM.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Monday 
afternoon after he groped one woman at Pub-
lix and attacked another woman in a Star-bucks bathroom, Gainesville Police said. 
Robert Paul Munroe, 32, entered a Pub-
lix, located at 545 NW Eighth Ave., at about 2:34 p.m. on Sunday. Munroe approached a woman from behind, grabbed her buttocks and tried to lift up her shirt, according to an arrest report. 
After the woman ran away from Munroe 
he left the store. The incident was caught on video surveillance, according to the report. 
On Monday at about 2:04 p.m., Munroe 
was in the women’s bathroom of a Starbucks, located at 1520 NW 13th St. A woman told police that when she opened the door to her stall, Munroe grabbed her and held her close to his body, according to the report. 
The woman was able to break free from 
Munroe’s hold, and she screamed for help. 
A witness told police that Munroe attempted to walk out of the bathroom as if nothing happened, but he was detained by other cus-tomers until police arrived, according to the report. 
Police said Munroe 
seemed unremorseful and did not deny anything pre-
viously stated by the victim in an interview after his arrest. 
Munroe was charged with false imprison-
ment and battery. As of press time he remains in Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $200,000 bond. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgGPD: Man groped one 
woman, attacked another
Perry
Munroe
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite surviving cancer four 
times, Paul Hale battles the disease 
every day.
In April, the 7-foot-4 man limped 
into The Agency, a UF public rela-
tions ﬁ  rm, on crutches. He had lost 
a leg to cancer and was looking for help, said Andy Hopson, The Agen-cy’s executive director. The meeting between Hale and Hopson led to the Friday launch of an awareness and fundraising campaign called #Head-standAgainstCancer to commemo-
rate National Childhood Cancer 
Awareness Month. 
The campaign, which was mod-
eled after previous social media viral campaigns such as the ALS Ice Buck-et Challenge, encourages people to do a headstand and challenge other social media users. 
The campaign is also seeking do-
nations to the Children’s Brain Trust Group, a charity Hale founded in 2000. The organization will donate the funds to UF’s Brain Tumor Re-
search Program.
Kelli Kaufmann, The Agency’s 
business development coordinator, 
said headstands were incorporated because brain cancer turns your world upside down. 
“It’s our way to bring light to a 
very serious issue,” Kaufmann said. 
UF President Kent Fuchs will par-
ticipate by posting a video of himself doing a headstand and challenging other “high-proﬁ  le people,”  whose identities Hopson said he’s keeping 
secret to not ruin the surprise.
Hale, 60, said he has been raising 
money for his organization since he 
lost his son, Bret, to brain cancer 17 years ago. 
He said he’s wanted to organize a 
fundraising effort geared for students for eight years, and heard abou The Agency through his wife, a UF jour-
nalism alumna.He said his family has a rare ge-
netic mutation which makes them 
vulnerable to cancer. As a result, 
he has lost many aunts, uncles and 
his son. His brother has also fought cancer.
“I am dedicated to doing every-
thing I can to defeating this disease,” Hale said. “That is the only way I can justify all of the pain we’ve had to go through.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Column
It’s not uncommon to feel like you have a 
million things to do but not enough hours in the day to get them done.
As a college student, time management 
will quickly reveal itself to you as an es-
sential skill. Between classes, sporting events, extracurricular activities and some remnants 
of a social life, time becomes a valued com-
modity.
I personally struggle with procrastination 
when I really don’t like what I have to do (i.e., math). College quickly taught me that time is of the essence. 
I needed to just buckle down and get stuff done before 
I drowned in work. After struggling with time manage-ment my first semester of college, I learned to put my phone across the room and focus on the task at hand. 
The world is not going anywhere while you finish your 
to-do list.
I’ve found that, somehow, it feels like deadlines for 
every class end up around the same time. There will be weeks where you have two papers due, a huge exam to 
take and five chapters to read before it is even Wednes-
day. Weeks like these are when time management crawls to the top of your  most-important-skills list.
This semester, I have tried to complete all of my 
homework, readings and assignments early. The amount my stress level has decreased is amazing. Be-ing a journalism major, I am used to working on a tight deadline. I’ve tried to make my own deadlines for all as-signments. This has not only given me more time to do 
other school-related things, but has also given me time 
to enjoy things outside of class. When you work hard, you can play hard.
Fall semester is the extreme example of needing the 
skill of time management. Fall means football and foot-ball means losing a whole day (gameday) to do home-work. Believe me, you do not want to be that person who has to miss the pre-game to finish last minute homework you forgot to do. Get 
homework over with before the big game. I 
could not stress this enough.
Fall is also the best time to fall into a good 
routine. During the first few weeks of the se-
mester, you’ll find what works best for you — 
when to get up, when to exercise and when to do what homework.
I have found that writing everything down works 
best for me. Once syllabus week is over, I go through 
and put all the important dates for my classes into my 
calendar on my computer. My roommate finds that a physical calendar on her wall works best for her. This technique helps to visualize your week ahead and how 
you should be efficient with your time.
Another friend of mine likes to plan out his time day-
by-day. There are several ways to be productive in the 
few hours you have in a day.
You have an economics test Monday? Get your 
homework done for all your other classes early so that you can focus on studying for that test. Plan out your days based on your calendar.
Time management can be hard, but once you have 
the hang of it your life will become less stressful.
Be a master of managing your time. Get your work 
done so you’re not rushing to complete that discussion post an hour before it’s due. It is possible to finish your work ahead of time, and I can almost guarantee you 
that it will make your life so much less stressful.  Col-
lege is hard, but this skill makes it all that much easier.
Kacey Finch is a UF journalism sophomore. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Time management is a skill college students need
Kacey Finch
opinions@alligator.orgEditorial
Trump is a human, 
just not a very 
good one
At this point, we have seen our fair share of anti-Trump 
posts during his presidency. We realize, of course, that a lot of President Donald Trump backlash is driven by emotion. However, a lot of the resistance Trump is met with has been valid and important for Americans to 
take note of and discuss. 
This past week we came across one anti-Trump post that we 
found especially troubling and disappointing.
A tweet posted by Billy Eichner, a popular American co-
median, actor and writer, shed light on the fact that Trump has yet to meet with a single victim of Hurricane Harvey. The tweet was accompanied by four photos. One of former Presi-dent Barack Obama at a disaster site hugging an elderly woman while she weeps; one of former President Bill Clinton at a di-
saster site being kissed on the cheek by two small children he is 
holding; one of former President George W. Bush at a disaster site hugging a mother and her child; and lastly, one of Trump at a disaster site speaking from the top of a large car through a microphone, while shamelessly using the outing as a chance to promote his USA baseball caps. Notice any inconsistencies?
The tweet called Trump “barely human” and while that 
might be a bit extreme, his actions, or lack thereof, during the course of the Harvey disaster have definitely highlighted his 
lack of empathy and compassion. 
Our president has yet to meet with any victim of the storm. 
Not a single one. No handshakes, no comforting words, no 
hugs. Not even an attempt to show his constituents he cares about their well-being.
We realize there is little you can do when a disaster strikes, 
especially one of this caliber. Raising funds to repair damage is helpful, but impersonal. That is why customarily, in addition to raising funds and sending relief volunteers, world leaders do 
what they can to make sure victims know the country cares — 
that their president cares. For some reason, Trump didn’t get this memo.
What makes us even more disappointed in our commander 
in chief is that he seems to be using the disaster as an opportu-nity to promote the sales of his new baseball caps. 
On his campaign website, Trump recently started to sell a 
variety of baseball caps that say “USA” on the front of them. All of the money made from the sales of these hats will be going 
toward his re-election campaign. So far at every event Trump 
has appeared at concerning Harvey, he has been sporting one of these hats. Since a baseball cap isn’t typically paired with a suit and tie, one can only assume he is wearing them for a reason — free advertising.
Trump has clearly and blatantly been extorting this horrific 
event as a way to make money for himself. Perhaps we could let it slide if at least some of the money he makes from hat sales were going to a good place like a disaster relief fund. Instead, 
the money will go straight into the pockets of the multibillion-
aire as he vies for another attempt to disgrace our country.
This column does not call into question Trump’s policy. It 
does not call into question his campaign strategy or his attempts to raise money. What it does call into question is his character.
Trump’s display throughout the Harvey disaster has made 
us lose what little respect we had left for our president. His actions have been nothing but lazy, selfish and truly shameful. 
Trump is not “barely human,” as Eichner suggested. Trump 
is certainly a human. Just not a very good one.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING ONLINE 
EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
Yesterday, President Don-
ald Trump announced his decision to end DACA, or 
Deferred Action for Child-
hood Arrivals, the con-
troversial Obama-era executive order that allowed illegal immi-
grants who were brought here as 
children to remain in the U.S. and receive work permits. The fact is, DACA was the epitome of our nation’s foolish immigration policies, and President 
Trump was right to put a stop to it. 
For decades, self-serving politicians in 
Washington D.C. have deliberately ignored 
our immigration laws that currently exist on 
the books. From failing to secure our border 
(yes, Congress authorized the construction of a border wall more than 10 years ago), and essentially endorsing widescale illegal entry into our country, politicians in both 
parties have proven they have no desire to 
enforce our laws and solve this problem. On one hand, Republicans like Paul Ryan and Marco Rubio lie and pretend they care 
about illegal immigration and the border 
when they’re campaigning, only to ditch it once they’re elected in favor of the big busi-ness lobby that is in favor of cheap labor. Democrats, on the other hand, like Nancy 
Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, will stop at 
nothing to turn the U.S. into a third-world hellhole. The left believes in open borders and that anyone in the world has the right 
to enter the United States. If they could, 
Democrats would put no limits on the num-ber of poor, uneducated or unskilled immi-grants that could enter the country. Don’t believe me? Just ask a politician how many 
immigrants we should let in the country, or 
how many is too many. They can’t answer because there is no answer. The truth is the Democrats see one thing and one thing 
only: future votes. 
President Obama decided to act uni-
laterally on immigration when he first in-
troduced DACA in 2012. The Constitution specifically grants Congress authority on is-
sues dealing with immigration. The courts 
have even ruled against DACA. It’s simple — under the Constitution the president can-not grant these DACA children, or so-called “Dreamers,” status to remain and work in the United 
States. 
If the Constitution doesn’t 
convince you, consider this on a 
matter of principle: Why should 
we, as a country, reward those 
who break our laws? Why should we grant illegal immigrants great-
er privileges than citizens, or even legal im-migrants for that matter? We are essentially 
doing all of these things. Millions of people 
come or attempt to come to this country le-gally, and what message do we send when we deny many of them in favor of immi-
grants who have already broken our laws 
by coming here illegally?
Perhaps the most frustrating argument 
that’s heard when discussing DACA is that these children have dreams (hence “Dream-
ers”) and to end DACA would end their 
dreams. Scores of politicians have used this emotional argument to justify DACA am-nesty. These politicians will say something 
along the lines of, “We must let them pur-
sue their dreams, we can’t take it away!” Well to that, I say, what about my dreams? Or the dreams of other citizens or legal im-migrants? Will I be allowed to break the law 
in pursuit of my dreams? No other fabric of 
our society allows citizens to openly break laws and be forgiven for them because they are “following their dream,” so why should 
we allow it of noncitizens? 
President Trump once commented of 
Dreamers on the campaign trail and said, 
“I want dreamers to come from this coun-try. I want the people in the U.S. to have 
dreams.” By ending DACA, Trump is not 
only fulfilling a campaign promise, but he is restoring respect for the law from the high-est levels of government. In doing this, he is 
rightfully prioritizing the rights, education 
and employment of American citizens and legal immigrants. If people choose to live and pursue their dreams in our country, they must respect our laws. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. 
His column appears on Wednesdays. If you haven’t been living un-der a rock for the last week or so, you’ve probably read 
coverage on Hurricane Har-
vey.
The video and pictures have 
been devastating, to say the 
least. We’ve seen horrific imag-
es of people losing their homes, their families and even their pets. These people include journalists, who just like everyone else, have lost pretty much 
everything. Nonetheless, they continue to 
go to work every day to provide you with the news. 
Dear reader, the next time you feel the 
urge to call reputable newspapers and their dedicated staff members “fake,” think of this.
Now let me start by saying we are hu-
mans. Just like you and just like all hu-
mans, we make mistakes. By all means in 
those instances, call us out when we slip up. But when you leave a nasty or cynical comment on a story that’s based on proven 
facts because you don’t agree with what’s 
been said, that’s when you’ve crossed the line. 
This might be where I lose you, which is 
fine. I understand that this isn’t what most 
of you came here to read. The concept of 
“fake news” has become part of our every-day lives now. We say it without thinking because our president and everyone else 
does.
You might think it’s funny, and sure, 
you might make your friends laugh, as 
well, but there are people out there work-ing hard to provide you with quality news. 
When you write snide comments like that, 
please remember how they affect the real people who you are attacking. 
I’d like you to remember that nobody 
in journalism goes into this profession to spread “fake news.” In fact, most of us decide to stay for our love of people and stories. Any true journalist will tell you that making a factual error feels like get-ting your hand jammed in a car door. It’s equal parts awkward and humiliating when a source 
or a reader chimes in to let you 
know you messed up. 
I can’t attest as to why ev-
eryone stays in journalism, but 
I can promise you it definitely 
isn’t for the pay. Most journalists work long hours, weekends and 
pretty much every holiday known to man because we love our jobs. The majority of 
smaller newsrooms are often understaffed 
and trying to make ends meet. With this in mind, I hope you’ll think twice before you decide "fake news" is the appropriate way 
to respond.
You’re allowed not to agree with news-
papers. In fact, most newspapers are per-
fectly fine with readers striking up a dis-cussion on their websites or social media 
pages. But when you go as far as to call 
their writers and editors nasty names or try and shame the newspaper overall for writ-ing something you don’t agree with, it’s 
time for you to take a step back and reflect 
on your thought process. 
I’m not here to make you feel bad, I just 
hope that after reading this, you see the other side of journalism. The side where 
it’s everyday people in your community 
trying with all of their might to get impor-tant stories out. In a sense, we are public servants — here to serve you, here to tell 
your stories and, most importantly, here to 
inform you.
A little over a week ago, Mike Hixen-
baugh, a medical reporter from the Hous-ton Chronicle tweeted “Some have lost 
cars. One hitched a ride home on a jet ski. 
Water in their homes, but they’re still out reporting. #NotTheEnemy.”
I’d like you to remember this tweet the 
next time you think it’s funny to call your local or national news organization “fake.” 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
President Trump right to end DACA Just remember: The newspapers you 
call fake are run by actual people
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgEduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.org
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenueWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Featuring bands with spontane-
ous styles, this weekend at High 
Dive promises to be a unique musi-cal experience.
This Saturday the local venue will 
host bands The Heavy Pets, Whale Feral and Supamoon, with doors opening at 9 p.m. and music begin-ning at 9:30 p.m.
The Heavy Pets has been per-
forming together for 13 years, with more than 1300 performances under their belt. The band’s current lineup has been consistent for ﬁ  ve years 
with Jeff Lloyd (guitar and vocals), 
Mike Garulli, (guitar and vocals), Jim Wuest (keys and vocals), Ja-mie Newitt (drums and vocals), and Tony D’Amato (bass).
“Everybody in the band has 
known somebody since childhood,” Lloyd said. “We’ve worked off the strength of that tight unit, and it’s al-
lowed us to get really deep and really 
funky.”
This is not The Heavy Pets’ ﬁ  rst 
time in Gainesville, but this week they will introduce new music. The band just released “Higher,” the ﬁ  rst single off of their upcoming full-length studio album “Strawberry 
Mansion,” set to release this fall. The 
band will be leaning into new tracks from the album at Saturday’s perfor-mance, Lloyd said.
“We’re a band that really focuses 
on song craft,” Lloyd said. “We’re really showcasing that on our next record.”
The Heavy Pets is known as a 
jam band, which focuses on impro-visation. However, with years of playing together, Lloyd says that The Heavy Pets is “more of a band that jams.” They use spontaneity, impro-visation and creativity to create their music, but they are organized and know what they want from the mu-sic they create. 
Whale Feral is a Gainesville-
native band that formed in October 2016. The band is comprised of  Matt Urban (lead guitar and vocals), Ricky Cagno (rhythm guitar and vocals), William Bethea (bass) and David Havens (drums). The group quickly gained traction locally, per-forming parties, downtown venues 
and putting on shows at First Mag-nitude Brewing Company every Sun-
day night. 
“We’ve evolved a lot,” Cagno 
said. “It’s kind of the nature of what we are trying to accomplish with this band, keeping things fresh and exciting and having a lot of impro-visation.”
Whale Feral’s music is all about 
collaboration and improvisation. Cagno said that they want to create an immersive experience rather than 
performing a traditional set. Each 
member of the band brings different musical interests and tastes to the table, creating a blend of jazz, blues, country, folk, swing, bluegrass, R&B and Americana, Urban said.
“Everybody was playing such dif-
ferent styles of music when we all started playing together,” said Ha-
vens. “We were able to incorporate 
everything into what we think is a really different sound.”
Tickets are available at Hear 
Again Records, the High Dive box ofﬁ  ce and ticketﬂ  y.com. Tickets are $12 in advance, and $14 the day of. Guests under 18 must be accompa-nied by a guardian. Those under 21 
will be charged an additional $3 fee.
The Heavy Pets, Whale Feral and more to hit High Dive
Courtesy to the Alligator.
South Florida-born band The Heavy Pets will bring their 
talents to High Dive this Saturday night.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Brooke Bajgrowicz
Avenue Contributor
Loud music blasts through the speakers, 
people dance alongside strangers who quick-
ly become friends, and excitement rushes through the crowded room — this is just part of what makes a Family Force 5 concert so 
inviting.
Family Force 5 will turn High Dive into a 
high-energy dance ﬂ  oor on Friday night. The 
concert — which will feature openers Ar-rows in Action, Growing Pains and Kendall T. — is in support of their upcoming album.
The eccentric dance-pop band is excited 
to play in Gainesville, said Teddy “Holly-wood” Boldt, the drummer for Family Force 
5. The High Dive show extends the band’s 
spring tour, “The Label Won’t Let Us Put Out The Album Yet, Let’s Play The Whole Thing Live For You Before It’s Out” tour, he said.
“When we were on that tour, a lot of peo-
ple were like, ‘What about Florida?’” Boldt said. “So we were like, ‘Well, we love Flori-da, so we just got to make it work.’”
The band wants the Gainesville show to 
feel like a giant dance party, Boldt said.
“We’d love for people to come to our 
shows and lose themselves in the moment and not really care what everybody else thinks,” Boldt said. “Or how bad their dance moves are or what they’re wearing, because we’re all in the same boat.”
Although the concert will be energetic, 
it will also be personal. By playing at High 
Dive rather than a huge arena, the band will 
be able to more easily interact with the audi-ence, Boldt said.“We wanted to have these shows be in re-
ally intimate settings so that it’s just kind of a special moment for everyone even if there 
are tons and tons of people there,” he said.
Boldt and the other members want it to 
feel like they’re sitting in a living room, play-
ing whatever the audience wants them to play and having a good time, he said.
While Family Force 5 plans on playing fan 
favorites, the band will also play songs from their upcoming self-titled album. While the new album is reminiscent of past ones, it is 
driven by an ’80s pop sound, Boldt said.
“I like to tell people that if Prince was 
driving the car and Tears for Fears was con-
trolling the radio, we’re in the back seat just hanging out and taking notes,” Boldt said.
Although the album is fun and lightheart-
ed, the band also packed in songs with vi-brant meanings. “Nearsighted” talks about struggling with originality, while “Fire on 
the Highway” explores the feeling of escap-
ism on a late night drive, Boldt said.
“We did get a little deeper on some songs 
talking about, you know, being yourself,” he said. “Not being afraid to be who you want to be.”
The album doesn’t have a release date 
yet due to complications related to adding a second record label, but the band hopes fans 
won’t have to wait much longer, he said.
Family Force 5 will tweet their location 
from popular spots across Gainesville the 
day of the show so that fans can hear about the new album and hang out with them, Boldt said.
Gainesville native Holli Manche is one of 
many fans eager for the Family Force 5 show. Although she has been to six of the band’s concerts across Florida, this will be the ﬁ  rst time she sees them in her hometown.
“You could say they were my gateway 
band into live shows,” the 22-year-old said. “I was hooked on concerts from then on.”
Although Manche has now been to more 
than 50 concerts, Family Force 5 remains one of her favorite bands. The music has grown with her.
Manche said she owes her lifelong love 
for music and concerts to Family Force 5.
Tickets to Family Force 5 at High Dive are $17 in advance at ticketﬂ  y.com and $20 on the day of the show with an additional $3 charge for those under 21. The VIP package 
is $40 and includes early admission, auto-
graphs and pictures with the band. Those under 18 must be accompanied by their par-ent or guardian.
“We’ve got a pretty cool core of fans that 
love on us way too much,” Boldt said. “For anybody who hasn’t been a part of that be-fore, hopefully we win them over and they feel like they’ve always been part of the fam-
ily.”
Family Force 5 to bring energy and music to High Dive 
Courtesy to the Alligator.
Christian rock group Family Force 5 will perform at High Dive this Friday.
By Brooke Steinberg
Avenue Contributor
Gameday season is upon us, and 
with the Gators’ ﬁ  rst home football 
game approaching, it’s important 
to know how to get through the 
day.
If you haven’t been to a Gator 
game yet, you’re in for a treat. 
Home games are some of the most 
exciting times of Fall, and they con-tribute to a majority of memories made throughout college. With that being said, there are some 
things you must know before going 
full-swing into a gameday.
Many games start at either 3:30 
p.m. or 7:30 p.m., with tailgates beginning a few hours before. Whether you’re getting ready early 
in the morning or later in the af-
ternoon, it’s still crucial to prepare with a healthy start to your day.
Dylan Sowers, a 21-year-old UF 
sports management major, attends every home game. He said his go-to plan to prepare for gameday is to drink a lot of water in the morn-
ing and eat a large, healthy break-
fast. It’s also important to get a good night’s sleep before a game so you’re well-rested and ready to take on the day. 
“The most important advice I 
have for people participating in gameday would be to stay hydrat-ed,” the senior said. “It’s extremely hot outside, and it’s easy to forget to drink water throughout the day.”
Sowers also said to ﬁ  nd a solid 
group of friends to spend the day with.
“My friends and I tailgate to-
gether before heading over to The Swamp to cheer on the Gators,” Sowers said. “It’s more enjoyable when you have a group of people 
to go with.”
It is essential to make sure you 
bring the necessities with you. Al-
exandra Colangelo, a 21-year-old UF senior speech therapy major, never leaves the house for a game-
day without a portable phone char-
ger, a protein bar or other snack and a bottle of water.Colangelo, like Sowers, also 
stressed the importance of stay-
ing hydrated. The Florida heat is 
rough, and the only way to get through it is with plenty of water.
While staying healthy and hy-
drated is certainly a key compo-nent to surviving a Gator gameday, there are other aspects of football season that are equally critical and 
much more fun, like putting to-
gether the perfect gameday outﬁ  t. Colangelo puts a lot of planning into the outﬁ  t she wears for game-day.
“Be sure to wear comfortable 
shoes that you’re ﬁ  ne with get-ting dirty or wet,” Colangelo said. “Pay attention to the weather, too, because that will help decide what you’re wearing.” 
If it’s going to be hot outside, 
you might want to stick to a sleeve-less outﬁ  t, Colangelo said. On the 
other hand, long-sleeve Gator at-
tire might come in handy on the colder Florida days. Because there is unpredictable rain in Gainesville, you might want to check if you will 
need an umbrella or rain jacket. To 
Colangelo, the most important ad-vice for your ﬁ  rst Gator gameday is to enjoy yourself and make new memories. “Take lots of pictures and enjoy the people you are doing 
gameday with, because it’s some of 
the best memories you’re going to make,” Colangelo said. 10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
After two successful events, the Civic Media 
Center will host its third biweekly Open Jam 
and Art Show on Friday, Sept. 15. The free event will showcase local musicians and artists in a creative and interactive environment. 
Starting at 8 p.m., the Civic Media Center 
staff and volunteers will set up a drum kit, mi-crophone and bass ampliﬁ  er in the library of the media center while allocating the space in the courtyard for acoustic performances. 
As was done on Aug. 18 and Sept. 1, musi-
cians will get together on Sept. 15 to play their own songs, play with new people and gain ex-posure to different styles and techniques.
Visual artists will be encouraged to “pres-
ent, disperse, sell and create their unique ex-pressions” throughout the media center, creat-ing a collaborative synergy between music and art, according to the press release. 
The Civic Media Center was founded in 
1993 with a core mission that has remained consistent throughout the years: to provide ac-cess to information and perspectives that are 
left out of the mainstream corporate media. 
“Art and culture are always part of that 
(mission),” Civic Media Center coordinator 
James Schmidt said. 
Schmidt is the only paid staffer at the cen-
ter. The rest are volunteers. The center’s core funding comes from its membership program. 
“We’re a community-supported autono-
mous organization. We use our space for pro-gressive grassroots community organizing,” 
Schmidt said. “Groups can host meetings, 
workshops, ﬁ  lm screenings and arts and cul-tural events like the Open Jam and Art Show.” 
With the loss of venues like The Jam and 
Tim & Terry’s, musician and Civic Media Cen-ter board member Matthew Barker felt that Gainesville had lost the space for an open and creative jam type environment. 
“There are many open mics around town, but no open electric jams that I know of where the kit, bass and guitar amp are provided,” Barker said. “Also with us, there’s no sign ups, it’s all improvisation.”
The second show had more than double 
the turnout than the ﬁ  rst, thanks to word-of-mouth and the clothing vendor and volunteer bartender Barker invited to the event. 
“I’d like the possibilities for future shows to 
be ﬂ  exible. Perhaps we’ll have a band or two play, have a visual jockey presenting on the projector and have an artist decorate the whole place with an install,” Barker said. “I want oth-ers to feel free to approach me with any cool ideas they have for future events. I imagine the next one will be a blast.” 
One band that played on Sept. 1 was The 
Rick Ryan Band, of which Barker is a mem-ber. The band is comprised of members Gray Spengler (drums and vocals), Matthew Barker (bass), Matty Pelletier  (lead guitar) and Rick Ryan (lead vocals and rhythm guitar). Ryan formed the band over a decade ago with Bark-er and Pelletier joining in the last two years. 
Ryan says that the band’s musical style 
leans toward folk punk. He calls the group an “all-original band,” and thus it is difﬁ  cult for the group to develop a good following. 
“No one knows us, but with the material 
we got, we usually win,” Ryan said. 
A recent win for the band was at the most 
recent Open Jam and Art Show where they played their newest song, “Sanctuary City.”
Two years ago, Ryan suffered a heart attack 
after a performance. Looking to the band’s fu-ture, he is playing it by ear. 
“I’ve got a few handicaps associated with 
the heart attack, but it doesn’t happen while playing onstage,” Ryan said. “The best thing I can do physically and mentally is play with the band, so I’ll see how long I can go.”
The next show will take place at the Civic 
Media Center at 8 p.m. on Sept. 15. Musicians 
are asked to bring their own guitars. Admis-
sion is free, but donations are appreciated. Civic Media Center to host biweekly Open Jam & Art Show
A guide to surviving the ﬁ  rst football game of the yearCourtesy to the Alligator.
The Open Jam and Art Show brings together artists of all kinds.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-20-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-6-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-
3901     9-29-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Cabin in the woods, one room, peaceful, with wildlife and pond. 23 mi east of Gainesville. $500/mo. No smoking/drugs. Call 352-301-4707.          9-8-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1BR APT AVAILABLE
IN COUNTRY VILLAGEUF students only. Walk, drive or ride to cam-pus. Call 352-373-2700     9-8-17-2-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-11-17-7-14
Copytalk Business Services is a financial transcription company located near UF cam-pus in Gainesville and is currently offering flexible scheduling part-time transcriptionist positions.Ideal candidates should meet the following requirements:- Have excellent English grammar, spelling, and comprehension skills- Touch type 60+ wpm- Be able to work a minimum of 16 hours per week Monday through FridayAPPLY ONLINE ATWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM        9-6-17-5-14Caregiver for 30-yr-old w/autism.Training provided. Car, clean record, finger-printing required. $15/hr. P/T or F/T, Mon, Tues, Wed.    352-301-4707      9-8-17-5-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    12-6-17-40-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-25-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time CookNo Experience NecessaryCafé Risqué - Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Must be 18 Years or OlderDancer Auditions Ongoing      10-6-15-14
FOCUS GROUP MEMBERSwanted in Gainesville to discuss issues on real legal cases in north FL. Paid $35 for 3 hours of your time. Date of focus groups is Thurs Sept 7th. Morning and afternoon ses-sions available. Call Rita at 800-654-4659 M-F for more info.      9-13-17-5-14
BIG MILL'S CHEESESTEAKS
Now hiring line cooks, sandwich makers & 
counter personnel. PT, flexible hrs. Apply in 
person 2111 NW 13th St.     9-13-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-6-17-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-
ing of the Latin phrase “status quo”?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is a cenotaph?
3. MOVIES: What college did the 
characters in “The Big Chill” attend?
4. GEOGRAPHY: How many U.S. 
states are partly or wholly north of 
Canada’s southernmost point?
5. GAMES: What color is the No. 5 
ball in billiards?
6. GEOMETRY: How many faces 
does a tetrahedron have?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which first 
lady wrote a daily newspaper column 
titled “My Day”?
8. RELIGION: When was the King 
James Bible completed?
9. ART: What country was artist Joan 
Miro from?
10. U.S. STATES: What is Missis-
sippi’s official state tree?
Answers
1. The existing state of affairs
2. An empty tomb or a monument 
erected in honor of a person or group 
whose remains are elsewhere.
3. University of Michigan
4. 275. Orange6. Four7. Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of Frank-
lin D. Roosevelt
8. 16119. Spain10. Southern Magnolia
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 4, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"20 Events/Notices 20 Events/NoticesWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator! "Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 One taken for a
fool
5 Question at a
reunion
11 Game show hosts
14 Camped in a
trailer, for short
15 Sort of16 Spoil17 Tennessee
whiskey cocktail
19 MLB’s Indians,
on scoreboards
20 __ Alamos21 Groundbreaking
tool
22 Aquatic plant23 Fruity dessert28 “My package has
arrived!”
29 “Darn it!”30 Fun time, in
slang
31 “Othello”
antagonist
34 Unsurpassed35 One above
criticism
38 Good opponent40 Fair-to-middling41 MMDX ÷ V44 Actor Estevez
46 Stump speech
49 Pre-employment
investigation
52 Morsels
53 Conditions54 Done with one’s
career: Abbr.
55 Yale alum56 Influential pairing,
and a hint to thecircles in four
puzzle answers
61 President pro __
62 __ Jug: British
Open trophy
63 Take a long bath
64 Most GRE takers65 Iran, once66 Holy recess
DOWN
1 Hall of Fame
Sixer, familiarly
2 Charlottesville
sch.
3 Course that
makes you
sweat, briefly?
4 “How’m I doing?”
New York mayor5 Hr. segment
6 Swing voter:
Abbr.
7 Actor __ Baron
Cohen
8 Faint
9 Get by
10 Pupil’s place11 Magic Eraser
spokesman
12 Palmolive’s
corporate partner
13 Cooks, as
broccoli
18 Tennis legend
who wrote “Days
of Grace”
22 Traffic light
symbol
23 Sty dweller24 LAX posting25 Lindros in the
Hockey Hall of
Fame
26 Blackens, as
tuna
27 Former Labor
secretary Elaine
32 Prefix with
caching
33 Uses too much35 Jockey’s wear
36 Alter ego of 
7-Down37 Wood measure
38 Screen writer?39 Con targets41 Sugar-free soft
drink
42 Summer Games
org.
43 Tattoo, in slang44 __ Field:
BrooklynDodgers’ home
45 Colorful songbird47 Height: Pref.48 Where
Springsteen wasborn?
50 Tug __51 Operators56 Angel dust, for
short
57 Outdoor gear
retailer
58 Transp. group in
the Loop
59 Scale syllables60 Squeeze (by)
By Samuel A. Donaldson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/06/1709/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Most massive of
all known
elementary
particles
9 Storage spot
15 Place frequented
by John Jasperin Dickens’ “TheMystery of EdwinDrood”
16 Bird of baseball17 Aptly named
heavy-footed bird
18 Wow19 High school gp.20 Areas of interest22 Night sch. staple23 Twelve __:
neighbor of Tara
25 Pre-fax
communication
26 One who isn’t a
pro
27 Repeated phrase
in Ecclesiastes
29 Nile reptile30 Body part31 Stood for33 2000s “SNL”
alum
35 Eastern way
36 Game console
with a Mini
version
37 Where many
have gone onvacation
41 __ zoo
45 Get going46 Pickup hr.48 Mexican title49 Animal house50 Polynesian
people
52 Value
53 Take
responsibility for
54 California city
mentioned after
Kingman in thesong “Route 66”
56 “Yo!”57 Aficionados’
creations thatmay infringe oncopyrights, forshort
59 Oscillating curve
61 Cactus spine
source
62 Takes advantage
of63 Persian king
64 Hiker’s shelter
DOWN
1 Steinbeck
protagonist
2 Run3 Game item made
of cow leather,actually
4 In the capacity of5 Ballpark figures
6 Take
responsibility for
7 Lucille Ball, e.g.
8 Gets down, in a
way
9 Scrolls successor
10 Prominent
periods
11 Tina’s “30 Rock”
role
12 Cough syrup
alternative
13 Home Run Derby
competitor
14 Unsteady21 Counts while
working out
24 Overwhelm26 Decision maker
28 Online biz
30 Skips32 Extended period
34 Amaze37 U.K.-based
personal
organizer brand
38 “That comes as
no surprise”
39 Fidget __
40 First or second,
say
41 Bach work
42 Confused43 “Nice try!”44 Most dreary, in
Dublin
47 Anybody’s 
guess
50 Medieval clubs51 Like the Jefferson
Memorial’scolumns
54 Nastiness55 Old TV host with
an accordion
58 Kit maker60 Quick thinking
By David C. Duncan Dekker©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/02/1709/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com 1.  ____ show
1.  Outburst 5.  “Copy that”
2.  Hydrogen, to the rest6.  Spike, brier
3.  ____ wreck 7.  Wiped off
4.  Lent, advanced NETTLA
DITREAEORGR
NHRTO
TRHLGIE
USERVNORAEDSE
OLEDNAANSWERS: 1A-Talent  5A-Roger  6A-Thorn  7A-Erased
1D-Tirade  2D-Lighter  3D-Nervous  4D-Loaned  B-Long Island9-6-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to about 8 million people. 
BONUS
24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 21 Entertainment 23 Rides
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators redshirt freshman golfer Elin Esborn  helped 
Florida tie for third place in its ﬁ  rst tournament of the fall season. Read the story, pg. 15.Gators fall in T op 25 AP Poll
After losing its season opener to Michigan on Saturday, Florida's football 
team dropped from No. 17 to No. 22 in rankings released Tuesday. The Gators are the highest-ranked 0-1 team behind Florida State (No. 10).Anyone that’s ac-
tive on social media 
or has read the news 
knows that Hurricane Irma is coming.
How can you not?We’ve known 
about this storm for 
more than a week, 
and now that it has 
been upgraded to a 
Category 5 hurricane, people have started preparing for 
it.
Irma, one of the strongest 
storms ever recorded in the At-lantic, is slowly making its way 
toward Florida. It has already hit the Caribbean, and by the time this weekend rolls around, it will most likely 
be downgraded to a 
Category 4, prompt-ing Gov. Rick Scott 
to declare a state of 
emergency for all 67 of Florida’s counties.
I was at Publix 
Tuesday afternoon 
and all the cases of 
plastic water bottles 
were gone. I scrolled through Twit-
ter and saw pictures of the same 
thing happening at Walmart and other stores.
I drove around Gainesville look-
ing for any place that still had bot-With storm approaching, UF 
should move football game
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJakeBy Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
By the time Shawn Davis turned 
around, Tarik Black was gone. 
The Michigan receiver raced past 
Davis to the 15-yard line, stepped un-
derneath the high-arching pass and 
walked into the end zone. Touchdown.
Davis clapped his hands in frustra-
tion.
“We have to have them grow up,” 
redshirt senior safety Nick Washington 
said Tuesday. “They’re not young guys 
any more. They’ve got to come out and 
make plays.”
On Saturday, in its 33-17 loss to 
Michigan in Arlington, Texas, the Gators showcased a defensive back-ﬁ  eld that featured at least three fresh-men. At times, their inexperience showed. 
There was Black’s 46-yard touch-
down catch after a blown coverage by Davis in the ﬁ  rst quarter. There was a 37-yard catch over freshman corner-back Marco Wilson, again by Black, in the second quarter.
But there were also ﬂ  ashes of tal-
ent, like freshman CJ Henderson’s in-terception return for a touchdown in the second quarter, a sign of hope for a 
defensive backﬁ  eld littered with youth.
“They’re all talented, they all got re-
ally good ball skills, they’re all smart,” 
Washington said. “(But) sometimes, everyone has brain farts.”
This year, if Florida wants to re-
bound from its season-opening loss, it likely can’t afford many more mistakes from its younger players. 
The Gators entered the season with-out four of its starting defensive backs from a year ago. Quincy Wilson, Teez Tabor and Marcus Maye all declared for the NFL Draft, while returning safe-ty Marcell Harris was declared out for the season with a torn Achilles tendon in July.
“Every year, people count us out 
— the DBs — because we always lose great guys,” Washington said. “And every year, we always come back with just as much talent.”
With Harris unavailable, it has now 
become Washington’s job — suddenly the oldest member of a young defen-sive back group — to lead.
“They really don’t understand what 
it’s like to play in front of a crowd of 90,000 until it actually happens,” Washington said. “But I thought they did a great job.”
UF coach Jim McElwain agreed. On 
Monday, McElwain said he was im-pressed with the poise of the freshmen defensive backs in their ﬁ  rst college 
game.
“I was happy with, more than any-
thing, how they kind of stepped up to 
the moment,” McElwain said. “It was by no means too big for them.” 
And if UF’s young defensive back-
ﬁ  eld hopes to improve, it will likely rely on veterans like Washington to help players like Davis and Wilson in 
the ﬁ  lm room, at practice and on the 
ﬁ  eld during game day.
“They’re a good group of young 
guys,” Washington said. “... (But) I do feel like an old man. I will not lie.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgVeteran defensive back tasked with leading young unit
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Brandon Powell isn’t fazed by 
hurricanes.
He’s been through plenty of 
them before.
Growing up in Deerﬁ  eld Beach, 
Florida, the wide receiver has en-
dured everything from imposing 
Category 5 storms to meager tropi-
cal cyclones.
“You know, my family, we’ve 
been through Katrina and Hurri-cane Wilma,” Powell said. “There’s 
not too much to worry about.”
Ask around the rest of UF’s 
locker room and you’ll hear the ex-
act same thing. Most of its players 
are from Central and South Florida 
and are used to the annual mur-murings of devastating whirlwinds and catastrophic natural disasters.
But with Hurricane Irma —  one 
of the strongest storms ever record-ed in the Atlantic Ocean, accord-ing to CNN —  expected to hit the 
United States this weekend, Powell 
and the rest of his teammates can’t 
help but be concerned.
“I talked to my grandma and 
she’s got her generator ready,” Powell said. “She’s got water. If I 
got to send something back home 
to help her out, I will.”
Family isn’t the only thing on 
the players minds' this week, how-
ever. Florida, coming off a loss in 
its season opener for the ﬁ  rst time in 28 years last Saturday against Michigan, is looking to rebound this weekend in a matchup with Northern Colorado.
The game is currently scheduled 
this Saturday at 7:30 p.m., but with 
Irma looming in the distance, UF is 
preparing for possible alterations.
“We continue working with uni-
versity and government ofﬁ  cials 
to… determine the impact of the 
storm on our events in Gainesville this weekend,” Steve McClain, Florida’s senior associate athletic director for communications, said 
in a release.
Athletic director Scott Strick-
lin added in a series of tweets on 
Tuesday night that the university 
still hopes to play the game in 
Gainesville "if possible" and will get an updated forecast today be-fore communicating its plans to the  Gators preparing for Hurricane Irma
SEE HURRICANE,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Max Chesnes / Alligator
Florida's young secondary was exploited by Michigan after veteran safety Nick Washington (left) 
exited the game. "They're all smart ... (but) sometimes, everyone has brain farts, " Washington said.
Jake’s on a Plane / Opinion FOOTBALLWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Tyler Nettuno 
Sports Writer 
Windy weather and rough con-
ditions were not enough to stop 
the Gators women’s golfers on 
Tuesday, as they put together a 
strong ﬁ  nish in the third and ﬁ  nal round of play at the Ocean Course Invitational in Kiawah Island, South Carolina.
Florida sat in sixth place head-
ing into the round, but the Gators posted the second-lowest team score to move up to a tie for third with Wake Forest, ﬁ  nishing be-
hind only N.C. State and Florida 
State.
The Gators worked their way 
back into the mix despite difﬁ  cult course conditions and winds, a testament to the resolve the team showed in the season-opening tournament.  
“The conditions were tough 
today, much harder than yester-day,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “I know we were bat-tling and it was good to see that. 
I thought we showed some tough-
ness today, when it was easy to let the wind and the course beat you up. It was a tremendous 
learning week for us with a lot of 
positives.”
By the end of the tournament, 
four Florida golfers had ﬁ  nished in the top 25, headlined by red-
shirt freshman Elin Esborn.  She 
shot a 72 in the third round, put-ting her at 2 under for the tourna-ment and solidifying a ﬁ  fth-place ﬁ  nish. Esborn was one of only seven golfers to ﬁ  nish the tourna-
ment below par.
“Elin was a 
bright spot this 
week. I was re-
ally impressed. 
She is a tremen-
dous athlete and what I would call a ‘gamer,’” 
Glaser said. “I 
thought she handled direction 
very well and showed a lot of poise for her ﬁ  rst college event.”
Fellow freshman Addie Bag-
garly turned in a 78 on Tuesday, the highest score of her three rounds, and it was enough to hold on to a tie for 20th with Kaeli Jones of UCF.
Other Gators to bounce back 
from struggles in the ﬁ  rst two rounds included Carlotta Ricolﬁ  , who moved up 16 spots on the leaderboard, and Marta Perez, who jumped up 22 spots. Both 
ﬁ  nished tied for 22nd place. Tay-
lor Tomlinson placed 50th, mean-ing all ﬁ  ve Gators starters ended up in the top 50.
While this was a quality ﬁ  nish 
to the ﬁ  rst tournament of the sea-son, Glaser knows there is a lot of work yet to be done and some room for improvement from her 
team.
“Overall, I am really excited by what I saw out of this young 
team,” Glaser said. “We need to work on our management and discipline. The Ocean Course re-
quires your full attention and it 
exposed some weaknesses that we will hit head on.”
Florida, with only one return-
ing senior, showed potential and 
will look to capitalize on that 
moving forward.
“It’s going to be really exciting 
to see how much we can improve 
and how good we can be this sea-
son,” Glaser said.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
After shaky Day 1, Florida ties for third in opening tourneyBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
After a feverish ending to a 
matchup with Stanford that saw a barrage of shots and crosses into 
the Gators box in the ﬁ  nal minutes, 
UF goalie Susi Espinoza had one more obstacle to face: the press.
Before talking to the media after 
the 3-2 win over the Cardinal on 
Aug. 25, Espinoza said she was no 
good at answering questions. 
When a reporter asked her what 
was going through her mind at the end of the match, however, Espi-noza gave a fairly straightforward answer.
“Don’t mess up, obviously,” she 
said.Espinoza’s tentative nature 
toward answering questions off the ﬁ  eld does not extend into the 
goalie box. She 
often challenges 
attackers coming 
at her. She races into their path, exposing the net 
behind her and 
usually forces the opposition 
off the ball, or she clears the dan-
ger entirely.
“I’m always ready to go out 
when I need to,” Espinoza said.
When Florida’s season began, 
Kaylan Marckese was slated to start at goalie. The junior from St. 
Petersburg, Florida, was in goal for every minute of every game last season, allowing 1.13 goals per game with a .722 save percentage. But a hand injury suffered before 
the season opener forced Espinoza 
into the starting lineup.
The Gators may not be worse 
off for it. Through six regular-sea-son games, Espinoza is allowing 
just 0.66 goals per game and has 
a .778 save percentage. It may be a small sample size, but what the newly anointed starter lacks in 
game experience, she makes up for 
in conﬁ  dence.
“I’ve played with some of (my 
teammates) for a couple of years now,” Espinoza said. “I knew they 
were going to have my back.”
Coach Becky Burleigh said she’s also comfortable with Espi-
noza. However, she would not let on about Espinoza’s future once Marckese fully recovers from her 
injury.
“That’s very speculative,” Bur-
leigh said before the team made its 
road trip to Seattle this past week-end. “Let’s wait and see when 
(Marckese) comes back.”
The Gators returned from their 
West Coast travels having lost one 
game and won the other, both 1-0 
contests. Espinoza saved ﬁ  ve total 
shots on goal in games against the University of Washington and Port-land. She returns to Gainesville tied for second in the SEC in shutouts 
with three on the young season. 
The Gators face Florida State Friday night at 7 at James G. Press-
ly Stadium. The shortest keeper of the four on UF’s roster, Espinoza will more than likely be in goal, all 
5-foot-6 inches of her. 
As for any changes going for-
ward, Espinoza just hopes she can 
reassure her coaches of her ability to continue her brand of goalkeep-
ing.
“They were a little scared,” 
Espinoza said after the Syracuse 
game, which featured more of 
her aggressive tendencies. “I like 
to keep them on their toes, you know?”
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org
Gators goalie Espinoza’s aggressive style paying oﬀ   early
Espinoza
Esborn
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2017
UF yet to announce if game will be canceled
tled water and was turned down at all stops. I had to 
settle for a gallon of Zephyrhills spring water and way 
too much Gatorade. 
The hurricane, however, is not the only event 
happening this weekend.
The Florida football team plays Northern Colorado 
on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
The storm is supposed to hit the Florida Keys and 
South Florida around the same time.
I know it’s a bit early to call, but this game cannot 
and should not be played on that day. Instead, the 
game should be moved to Friday night.
It might be the unpopular and unnecessary op-
tion, but it will be the right call.
For starters, it gives the Bears enough time to 
come to Gainesville, play the game and leave before the storm hits. It also gives fans enough time to see the game and leave for safety as well.
But the biggest reason for moving the game is to 
help ease some of the players’ minds. The Gators have 92 players from Florida, and over half of them 
are from Tampa or farther south.
A hurricane of this magnitude is enough to cause 
those players to worry about their families stuck in the storm’s path. Moving the game to the day before 
would take away the conﬂ  ict of choosing between family and football.
Of course, UF would never do this, but it would 
make sense to if they want to ﬁ  t this game into the season without having to reschedule it.
Think of last year’s Florida-LSU game that was 
postponed because of Hurricane Matthew. The game got postponed only two days before the matchup was originally supposed to happen. The Gators only 
played ﬁ  ve home games instead of six as a result.
Do the responsible thing, UF, and get the game 
moved to Friday night. It’ll just make things a lot safer for everyone involved.
Or, you know, you could always move the game 
to LSU. Worked last time.
Look out for Jake Dreilinger's next column on Sept. 
14. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org and 
follow him on Twitter @DreilingerJake.Dear UF, move 
game to Friday
COLUMN,  from pg. 14public.
UCF’s football team has 
already rescheduled its home 
opener against Memphis from 
Saturday at 8 p.m. to Friday at 6:30 p.m. to avoid issues with team travel and fan safety.
The NFL has also report-
edly postponed this Sunday’s game between the Miami Dol-phins and Tampa Buccaneers due to similar concerns.
While no ofﬁ  cial decision 
has been made on Saturday’s contest between the Gators and Bears, Florida’s players 
are prepared if similar adjust-
ments need to be made.
“We’re just ready for any-
thing at this point,” Powell said.
Changes in scheduling is 
nothing new to Florida’s foot-ball team. The Gators matchup with LSU last season was post-
poned and relocated from Oct. 
8 in Gainesville to Nov. 19 in Baton Rouge due to Hurricane Matthew.
UF's players said that last 
year's postponed game does lie in the back of their minds heading into this weekend, but also stated they're concentrat-
ing much more on the future 
rather than the past.
"It's this year. We're fo-
cused on this year," running back Mark Thompson said. 
"So when we play this game, 
it will be ready to play.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgHURRICANE,  from pg. 14
Max Chesnes / Alligator
Gators receiver Brandon Powell has weathered numerous hurricanes throughout his 
life and said the Gators are prepared for whatever decision is made concerning this weekend's game. “We’re just ready for anything at this point, ” Powell said Tuesday.