By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld             
and Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writers
Surrounded by about 15 em-
ployees in his kitchen Saturday 
night, an anguished Randy Akerson folded his restaurant’s last burrito — a ﬂ  our tortilla stuffed with beef, beans, cheese, sour cream and let-tuce.
“It was heartbreaking,” said the 
white-haired, bespectacled owner 
of Burrito Brothers Taco Co., a res-
taurant that became one of Gaines-
ville’s most prized institutions over the past 40 years.
By Akerson’s account, the res-
taurant was strangled to death 
over the past 15 months — since 
construction on The Standard at Gainesville began next door, limit-ing parking and causing revenues 
to sink.
Since 2015, the restaurant sunk 
into a $300,000 hole. Fundrais-
ers helped but ultimately weren’t enough to keep the doors open at 1402 W. University Ave.
Its last day was marked by snak-
ing lines of customers waiting on the sidewalk to get inside. 
It had a total of 508 transactions 
— with an average of about three to four burritos per transaction, com-pared to the daily 150-customer average. The restaurant sold about 1,500 burritos Saturday. It started turning people away at about 6:30 p.m. — after all of its food was gone.
The last burrito Akerson rolled 
under his roof was a symbolic ges-ture, he said, and it was meant to honor a dear friend and customer who died a few years back.“The last one was for him, wher-
ever he is,” Akerson said.
Forty years ago, a thinner, 
younger Akerson prepared the res-
taurant’s ﬁ  rst burrito, back when he wrote the restaurant’s “Guac” sign 
by hand whenever he had ripe avo-cados. Now, closing the restaurant for the last time was not nearly as hard as saying goodbye to the res-taurant’s employees — his family.
“I’m beyond grateful,” Akerson 
said. “I’ve never been able to pay them as much as I’d like to, but they know I’ve always paid them as well as I could.”
As for his neon-green “Guac” 
sign, which long stood as a light-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 96 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
Florida knocks oﬀ   No. 8 Kentucky
The Gators are hoping to carry the momentum, pg. 13
Florida knocks oﬀ   No. 8 Kentucky
After women’s marches, locals continue ﬁ  ght
About 500 gathered at a church Saturday to organize, pg. 3
Petition calls for Gainesville to be sanctuary city
A woman’s petition has amassed more than 370 signatures, pg. 3FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Before the U.S. Senate votes on 
Betsy DeVos for secretary of educa-
tion, UF College of Education stu-dents and alumni are letting Sen. Marco Rubio, R-F.L., know their 
distaste for the nominee.
More than 140 people signed 
the “Open Letter to Marco Rubio,” 
which outlines why the group be-lieves DeVos is unqualiﬁ  ed to lead the education sector. Stephanie Schroeder, a UF education doctor-al student, helped write the letter 
after DeVos’ nomination passed 
through a Senate committee vote Tuesday. The ﬁ  nal Senate vote on the nomination is today.
Two Republican senators, Su-
san Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, have said 
they will vote against party lines, 
which would tie the results, leaving the ﬁ  nal decision to Vice President and Senate President Mike Pence. If one more Republican senator switches his or her vote, and every Democrat votes along party lines, 
DeVos won’t be conﬁ  rmed. 
Devos is an education philan-
thropist, Republican fundraiser 
and advocate for charter schools, according to The New York Times. She and her children have never at-tended public schools, according to 
U.S. News and World Report.
Schroeder, 30, faxed the letter 
to Rubio’s ofﬁ  ces in Florida and 
Washington, D.C., on Friday. She doesn’t expect Rubio to change his vote, but she wants to inform peo-ple about DeVos’ policies, she said.
“It’s fantastic that so many peo-
ple care about this issue, but I wish that our representatives would lis-ten to us,” Schroeder said.
Schroeder said she disagrees 
with DeVos’ support of school choice, which are publicly spon-
sored programs that give money to 
families for private-school tuition, according to NPR. 
The letter cited a study about 
state charter schools performing worse than public schools and 
said the school choice movement 
promotes segregation of low- and high-income students, she said.
“She’s willing to send taxpayer 
dollars to support private religious schools,” Schroeder said. “I think it’s kind of frightening for some-one to be in charge of our nation’s schools who basically wants to 
shut down public schools.”
In an emailed statement, the UF 
College of Education’s dean and as-
 UF education students petition Rubio to oppose DeVosGrace King / Alligator Staff
Randy Akerson, the owner of Burrito Brothers T aco Co., poses for a portrait on Saturday evening. “I’m beyond grateful, ” Akerson said of his employees. 
“They’ve done way beyond what you can ask of an employee. ” See page 9 for our photo story on Burrito Brothers’ last day.
 After 40 years, doors close for good at Burrito Bros.
SEE BURRITO,  PAGE 9
SEE LETTER,  PAGE4WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Diversity Project
The Diversity Project will ex-
plore issues with a focus on race and class through storytelling and theater. It will provide a safe 
environment to share your ex-
periences at UF. Your story may be incorporated into a live theat-rical/multimedia performance, which will become a platform for discussion and possible so-lutions. Students are invited to join Tuesday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 
2102 and Wednesday from 
4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3310. Faculty and staff are invited Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2315. Please con-tact Jeffery Pufahl at JeffPuf@ufl.edu for more information.
Kickin’ it with Cupid / RUB 
Entertainment With Valentine’s Day around the corner, come out to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. and make gifts for the special people in your life. The first 100 attendees will get the opportuni-
ty to stuff a bear. At this event, 
you will be able to make hand-made cards while decorating and snacking on sugar cookies. Don’t forget to bring your best friend or significant other so you can test your knowledge of each other in a fun best-friend game.
Visiting Artist Lecture Series 
with Sam HarveyThe UF School of Art + Art History and H.O.T. Clay is proud to present visiting artist Sam Harvey as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series on Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Fine Arts Building C, 
Room 201. Harvey is a ceramics 
studio artist and co-founder of the Harvey Meadows Gallery in Aspen, Colorado. The lecture by Harvey will offer the communi-ty an important opportunity for dialogue about contemporary art and culture in relation to na-tional and international trends. 
The event is free and open to the 
public. For more information about the Visiting Artist Lecture Series and Harvey, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Fulbright PechaKucha
“PechaKucha” is a presenta-tion format in which 20 slides 
are shown for 20 seconds 
each. Networking and refresh-ments will follow the presenta-tions Thursday at 5:30 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. Presentations will in-clude “Anthropology of Images” by Daniel Barroca, a visiting Fulbrighter from Portugal and doctoral candidate in cultural 
anthropology; “My Fulbright: 
Eating and Drinking My Way to a Master’s Degree” by Claire Friedrichsen, an American Fulbrighter to Italy and doctoral candidate in soil and water sci-ences; and “How to Select Fresh Fish” by Erangi Heenkenda, a visiting Fulbrighter from Sri 
Lanka and master's candidate in 
fisheries and aquatic sciences. Please RSVP at eventbrite.com.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum Spend Valentine’s evening at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia. The pro-
gram fee includes admission to 
the “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors” exhibit, special activities and a signature cocktail and des-sert bar. The museum is open from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The fee is $30 per person or $50 per couple. “A Valentine’s 
Night at the Museum” is for 
adults only (ages 18 and up). Pre-registration is required. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/valentine-event or call 352-273-2061.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with as-sistance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is produc-ing an empowerment art show and performance-art showcase 
for the semiannual anti-violence 
arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Friday and Saturday at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW Sixth St. Artists and performers of all styles are welcome to submit work that evokes themes of re-covery, healing from trauma, 
self-discovery and love. A public 
display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on both days from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a range of art workshops and art-making opportunities such as a public canvas and storytell-ing exercises. All couples are welcome to participate. Email 
rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or 
for more information.
An Evening of Finnish Folk 
MusicAlachua County Library District presents "Vellamo: An Evening of Finnish Folk Music on March 8 at 6 p.m. at the Headquarters Library. The per-forming and songwriting team of Pia Leinonen and Joni Tiala will perform songs in English as 
well as their native language, 
Finnish, and also perform tradi-tional ballads from the Finnish and Scandinavian folk tradi-tions. They have toured exten-sively in Europe, New Zealand and the U.S. Their self-titled first album came out in early 2013, and their second album “Trad,” 
released in June 2014, was re-
corded with a full band. Their third album, “Koskenkylä” (Whitewater Village), was re-leased in November 2015. This free musical program will be in Meeting Room A at the Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave. For more 
information about library pro-
grams, visit aclib.us/events or call 352-334-3900.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
writing competitionWrite yourself into the art mu-seum. Words on Canvas is a po-etry and prose writing competi-
tion at the Harn Museum of Art 
for UF and Santa Fe College stu-dents inspired by art. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The deadline is March 17. 
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: 
In an article published Feb. 3 
under the headline "Former UF 
coach Spurrier announced next Accent Speaker," the Alligator incorrectly reported Ted Spiker to be the dean of the UF Department of Journalism. He is the chair.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 96
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  78° LOW  53°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Help students gain a healthy perspective by advertising in 
The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is dedicated to giving students tips about healthy living and excercise. 
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP TODAY
advertising@alligator.org · 352-376-4482Deadline: MON., Feb. 6Run Date: Wed., Feb. 8
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsEmily Mavrakis / Alligator
CABBAGE PATCH KIDS
Kelsey Smith, a 21-year-old UF architecture junior, pulls weeds with UF’s Organic and Sustainable Agriculture 
Club in the Field and Fork Pantry’s Student Gardens on Friday. Smith joined OSAC because she is interested in looking into landscape architecture graduate school programs.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
Erin McConnell refreshed  
her online petition every 
10 minutes, hoping others shared her hope of turning Gainesville into a city of sol-
ace for immigrants.
Ever since creating the pe-
tition Saturday night, in the 
hopes of making Gainesville a sanctuary city, the 46-year-old Gainesville resident has watched the number of signa-tures grow to more than 370. 
The petition reads, “In light 
of the recent Donald Trump Executive Order on Muslim immigration, we are calling on Mayor of Gainesville Lau-ren Poe to declare Gainesville an immigrant Sanctuary City,” one that protects un-documented immigrants from prosecution or deportation.
“We are all immigrants in 
this country,” she said. “We should set an example for 
other cities.”
On Jan. 25, Trump signed 
an executive order threaten-
ing to cut federal funding to “sanctuary jurisdictions,” those that did not report un-documented immigrants to the federal government, ac-
cording to NPR.
On social media, Poe 
has spoken out against the 
threat before but did not ex-plicitly voice a hope to make Gainesville a sanctuary of any kind.
At about 4 p.m. today, as 
part of a different campaign, 
Poe will receive one of 150 
signs that the nonproﬁ  t Wel-coming Gainesville has been giving away for a $10 dona-tion, said Richard MacMaster, the chairman of the organiza-tion’s board.
The signs, written in Eng-
lish, Arabic and Spanish, say: 
“No matter where you’re 
from, we’re glad you’re our neighbor.”
“I think it ﬁ  ts the spirit 
of Gainesville very strong-ly,” MacMaster, 82, said. “It seems to be something that people want to say.”
Joy Pitts, a 34-year-old 
Gainesville resident, signed the petition Saturday and shared it on her Facebook pro-ﬁ  le, because she said she be-lieves it’s important to defend undocumented immigrants.
She said making Gainesville 
a sanctuary city would reduce crime rates. Because undocu-
mented immigrants fear de-
portation, they are less likely to report a crime, Pitts said. 
“Our city is safer when ev-
eryone works together,” she said. “If our police doesn’t worry about (federal immi-gration policy), they can just worry about doing their job.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org Petition calls for 
Gainesville to be sanctuary city
By Dominique T orres
Alligator Contributing Writer
After the Women’s March on Wash-
ington inspired hundreds of thousands 
across the country to take to the streets, more than 500 Gainesville area activists gathered at a church Saturday with one 
thing in mind: What now?
The meeting, hosted by the nonprof-
it Women’s March Florida, was held at 
Gainesville’s Unitarian Universalist Fel-lowship, but only 400 people could ﬁ  t inside. About 100 others stood outside, listening to the meeting through speak-ers.
Ashley Rella, an organizer for the 
Gainesville/Ocala chapter of Women’s March Florida, said residents should in-clude environmental protection, educa-tion, racial justice, immigration policy, LGBTQ+ rights and gun control in 
their ﬁ  ght for women’s rights. On Jan. 
22, when 500,000 protesters marched in Washington, D.C., about 500 pro-tested in Gainesville.
“This is a reminder that we are not 
going away and we are not going to stop this,” the 38-year-old said. “We are not going to let somebody stop everybody from just being able to live 
safely in our country.”
Iqra Ahmed, a UF environmental 
science senior, said she attended the 
meeting to speak out against President Donald Trump’s administration.
“I just wanted to ﬁ  nd something to 
do about what is happening with our current government rather than just sit-ting at home posting on Facebook,” the 22-year-old said. 
Olivia Stryker, a 72-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she’s spent 40 years involved in activism. 
“It’s hard, sad and de-energizing to 
know that we are still doing so much after so much time,” said Stryker, a founding member of the Gainesville Women’s Liberation.
Rella said Women’s March Florida is 
planning a future march in Gainesville, but dates and details haven’t been de-termined.
“We are going to need tons of vol-
unteers, because this is not a sprint: It’s a marathon,” she said, “and so we need to have the momentum to continue.”  After women’s marches, residents 
plan further activism in GainesvilleBy Chase Musselman
Alligator Contributing Writer
With live music and drinks, SweetBer-
ries Eatery and Frozen Custard celebrated 
its four-year anniversary Friday.
The restaurant and ice cream shop, 
located at 505 NW 13th St., recently ex-panded its hours to include breakfast. The 
Friday event was the first time owners hosted musicians to play live on the pa-
tio, said Jane Osmond, a co-owner of the 
shop.
“Hopefully we’re gonna have live mu-
sic out on our patio regularly,” she said.
The restaurant’s recent morning-hour 
additions include new coffee and pastry 
items, she said. However, breakfast is lim-
ited to weekdays. 
Osmond said she sat outside the store 
on a weekend morning and the streets were empty, but weekdays have been 
booming.  
Even with a slow start, business for 
breakfast has started to increase, and cof-fee has been a customer favorite, she said.
“People are ordering the espresso 
drinks all day long,” she said.
Andrew Sims, 24, said he thinks the 
restaurant should change its hours again 
to include weekend breakfast.
“It’s a better idea to have breakfast on 
the weekends than have it on the week-days,” the UF forest genetics doctoral stu-
dent said. 
Another addition to the store will be 
a deck above the patio, Osmond said. But she is still trying to have permits ap-
proved by the city. 
“We’ll have a much bigger celebration 
when our deck comes in,” she said.4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
sociate deans didn’t take a direct stance on 
DeVos’ nomination.
“We support our students and student 
organizations in staying informed and ac-
tively participating in education-related 
public policy,” the statement read.
Some senators have received thousands 
of phone calls, mostly in opposition to the nomination, according to CNN. Rubio’s of-fices have refused to say how many calls or emails have come in about it, according to the Tampa Bay Times. 
Desiree Harned knows Rubio has at least 
five of her calls in his inbox.
The 33-year-old UF education doctoral 
student signed Schroeder’s letter Friday. She said DeVos’ policies would affect her 
job and her 7-year-old autistic daughter’s 
education. 
“Having her in that position would do 
a detriment to the strides that have been made in special education,” Harned said. 
She said DeVos doesn’t have a strong 
knowledge of the Individuals with Disabili-ties Education Act, the law that ensures services to children with disabilities. The 
school choice movement would also take 
away public-school funding that helps stu-dents with disabilities, she said. 
“If we aren’t supportive of education, 
then what does that really say about us as a country?” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgLETTER,  from pg.1The letter was faxed to RubioPOLICE USED A K-9 TO  
TRACK HIM 
By Meryl Kornfield 
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was found on UF’s 
campus Friday burying marijuana, cocaine 
and ecstasy near Rhines Hall, Gainesville 
Police said.
Jamard Baker, 36, was a passenger in a 
black Buick that was pulled over for running 
a stop sign at about midnight on Northwest 
13th Street, according to a police report. 
As police were talking to the driver, Baker climbed from the back seat into the driver’s seat and drove off.
Police told him to stop, and an officer 
followed him with lights and sirens on, ac-cording to the report. Baker fled onto UF’s campus and ignored the officer’s command to stop. Police searched the campus and found 
the car abandoned near Rhines Hall on Gale Lemerand Road, according to the report. A 
police dog tracked Baker 50 feet away in 
bushes, where he was attempting to bury about 55.2 grams of marijuana, 0.75 grams of cocaine and four ecstasy pills. 
Baker’s driver’s license has been revoked 
since 2008, and he has previously been con-victed of driving with a suspended license, according to the report.
Police arrested Baker on charges of mari-
juana possession with intent to sell, posses-sion of a controlled substance, possession of drug paraphernalia, being a habitual traffic offender and fleeing and eluding officers. 
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County jail, where he remains as of press time in lieu of a $37,000 bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: Man tries to bury 
55 grams of weed at UF
Chase Musselman / Alligator
From left: Zach Montague and David Cotton performed at SweetBerries Eatery 
and Frozen Custard’s four-year anniversary party on Friday. The restaurant hosted live musicians on its patio for the first time.
SweetBerries Eatery hosts 
4-year anniversary party
EMERGENCIES INCREASED 
DURING HOLIDAYS AND 
SPORTING EVENTS. 
By Cecilia Lemus
Alligator Contributing Writer
When football fans chowed 
down on platters of chicken 
wings and heaps of nachos dur-
ing Sunday’s Super Bowl, they 
were at a higher risk of a medical emergency.
People are 10 times more 
likely to need medical attention for complications caused by food impaction during holidays and sporting events like the Super Bowl, said UF Health Jacksonville researcher Dr. Asim Shuja.
Food impaction is when food 
gets stuck in the esophagus. It can be caused by eating too much, eating too quickly or not 
chewing.
“People should be aware, be-
cause it is a very preventable gas-
trological emergency,” Suja said. 
The study, conducted from 
2001 to 2012, took data from Bos-
ton’s St. Elizabeth’s Medical Cen-
ter, he said.
Suja said 38 people underwent 
an emergency procedure on the esophagus within three days of 
a holiday or sporting event, and 
about 37 percent of those were due to food impactions.During other periods, only 4 
percent of people undergoing the same procedure suffered from 
food impactions, he said.
Patients should seek treatment 
within 12 hours of feeling some-
thing stuck in their throat or ex-periencing difficulty swallowing 
food, Shuja said.
Thanksgiving and Christmas 
had the most food impaction cas-
es, said Dr. Thormika Keo, a gas-
troenterologist in Temple, Texas, 
who worked on the study.
The result can be life threat-
ening because it can block a per-son’s airways, Keo said.
“So really the holidays that ev-
erybody thinks of in America as eating and being part of the fami-ly and a big meal, people got food 
stuck,” Keo said.Super Bowl could have caused 
more food-related emergencies
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
About a dozen people wait in line for The Social at Midtown’s 
Super Bowl Party and all-you-can-eat buffet. The buffet included macaroni and cheese, filet mignon, hors d’oeuvres and more.“So really the holidays that 
everybody thinks of in 
America as eating and being 
a part of the family and a big 
meal, people got food stuck.”
Thormika Keo
GastroenterologistMONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Maddie Harlow 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF professors urged about 100 
Gainesville residents Friday to 
consider ways to combat climate change.
Local environmental groups Pad-
dle Florida, Citizens’ Climate Lobby and Alachua Conservation Trust, Inc. hosted the Gainesville premiere of “Facing the Surge,” a 2016 docu-mentary showing the effects of ris-ing sea levels at the Prairie Creek 
Lodge in Norfolk, Virginia. After the 
ﬁ  lm, a panel including two UF pro-fessors answered questions about climate change.
Romain Gloaguen, a researcher 
with UF’s Agronomy Department, 
attended the screening to learn how 
the documentary suggested combat-
ing rising sea levels.
“If the message is to scare people 
about sea level rise, it was a perfect 
video,” Gloaguen said. “If the mes-sage was to say we have solutions, that wasn’t the perfect video.”
People can make environmental 
changes if they’re taught to con-
sume responsibly and reduce their 
carbon footprint, he said.
When the researchers answered 
questions, Brett Scheffers, a UF wildlife ecology and conservation 
professor, said in order to reduce water use, people can limit their beef consumption to once a week.
“Information is powerful, and so the more you educate yourselves 
and the more dialogue you have 
with other people, the better off we will all be,” Scheffers said.
Andrea Dutton, a UF geology 
professor who also spoke, said it’s 
difﬁ  cult to persuade people to care about climate change because the 
effects are often abstract, but it’s 
easy to see the damage already caused by sea levels rising.
“One of the most important 
things that we all can do is to just have conversations with people,” Dutton said.
Bob Tancig, a volunteer with 
Citizens’ Climate Lobby, said the group spreads awareness in com-munities across the nation and talks to elected ofﬁ  cials about passing a 
bill addressing climate change.
Tancig said UF students can help 
ﬁ  ght climate change by contacting 
their representative in congress.
“We as citizens have to assert 
our citizenship muscles,” he said.  UF professors discuss rising sea levels, climate change
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
A deputy with the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce was ar-
rested Friday and placed on paid administrative suspension after police said he physically abused a 
mentally disabled 11-year-old boy.
The deputy, 41-year-old Clin-
ton Carman Ferguson, is accused 
of hitting the boy Sunday evening and inﬂ  icting several bruises and red marks on his back and arms, according to a Gainesville Police report.
The boy — who has cognitive 
delay, chromosome abnormal-ity, seizures disorder, peripheral neuropathy and attention deﬁ  cit hyperactivity disorder — told his mother someone had kicked and hit him, although the person’s name was redacted from the re-port.
The police were called after the 
boy’s mother found the bruises on his back, according to the report.
The boy’s brother, who is 4 
years old, told police Ferguson hit the boy with a spatula several times on his back after the boy did not listen to something Ferguson told him.
Ferguson was arrested on a 
charge of child abuse.
After his arrest, Ferguson de-
nied hitting the boy, stating the wounds could have come from when Ferguson forcefully removed the boy from his car, according to the report.
Ferguson is suspended pend-
ing the conclusion of an internal investigation, said Lt. Brandon Kutner, a spokesperson with the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce, where Ferguson 
has been employed since 1999.
Kutner said Ferguson works 
as a school resource deputy at 
Gainesville’s Fort Clarke Middle School, located on Northwest 23rd Avenue.
He used to work in the K-9 unit 
and in Patrol Operations, Kutner said.
In 2014, Ferguson’s ex-wife 
ﬁ  led a petition for injunction against him for protection from domestic abuse, although that case was eventually closed, according to Alachua County Court records.
Authorities took Ferguson to 
the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Saturday on his own 
recognizance.Alachua County Sheriﬀ  ’s deputy 
abused disabled child, police say
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
FURRY PHOTOS 
Adam Goldberg, the lead photographer for AGoldPhoto Pet Photography, 
takes a photograph of a dog named Valentine at Swamp Head Brewery on Sunday afternoon. Goldberg has photographed about 300 dogs and has raised $12,388 for humane societies with his work, he said.  
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
How Donald Trump 
seduced America 
Enough with the Adolf Hitler, Voldemort and Emperor Pal-
patine comparisons. We’re going to go a little old school now, like pre-20th century. We’re going to do an old-fash-ioned literary analysis by comparing our president to a By-ronic hero.
Now for those of you who fell asleep during Advanced Place-
ment English Literature, here’s a refresher. The Byronic hero — named for Romantic poet Lord George Gordon Byron — was a staple of romantic gothic literature. Most often male (there are rare female examples within the time period, though they are more common now), the Byronic hero came at a contrast to the chivalrous and charming Captain Wentworth and King Arthur. They were bad boys, and usually, the good, virginal heroine of the novel would be completely enraptured and captivated by their 
moodiness, pride and general anti-social tendencies. 
Seductive, isn’t it?
For this extended comparison to really come across, we’re 
going to cast our country in the role of the sweet, fresh-faced darling. America was ready for a change. Having been romanced by a host of similar-minded suitors for the past 300 years, she was growing rather tiresome of the conventions and the customs. What America wanted was a bad boy, someone who wasn’t afraid to get his breeches real dirty, someone who wanted to build 
a wall. Screw what the rest of the government says!
Enter President Donald Trump. The fundamental traits of a 
Byronic hero are arrogance, rebellion and being somewhat of a 
social outcast. Let’s see how Trump ranked on those scales dur-ing the election season. There’s no doubt he was arrogant — even supporters of Trump say his pride is one of his most notable qualities, though they usually defend it. But hey, we’ll admit it, sometimes cockiness can be sexy. Trump represented a rebellion from the typical institution America was used to having. And as 
for being a social outsider, well, in the realm of politics, he cer-
tainly was an outcast. 
There are more niche traits of the Byronic hero that Trump ﬁ  ts 
as well. Emotional sensitivity and quickness to anger, as seen by Trump’s ﬁ  ery Twitter rants. His intensity, his drive, his rejection of social norms — all these are traits shared by the original 18th-century bad boys and our current president.
Now some people were telling America not to run away with 
this hot shot — just look at how some of your friends wooed by 
similar bad boys ended up — but America wanted a break from 
the norm. She wanted to be swept away by this brooding anti-hero, give some excitement to her humdrum life and maybe even change him in the end.
And sometimes that’s the case. The brooding anti-hero of 
Charlotte Brontë’s “Jane Eyre” was one of those cases — re-deemed by love, we all forgave him for locking his wife up in an attic and lying about her existence, just because he loved Jane so damn much. This type of redemption arc is popular with today’s 
anti-heroes, and both the sweet, innocent girl and the brooding 
bad boy beneﬁ  t. The girl learns to live a little, and the boy shapes up some. 
However, the problem is that in real life when you meet a 
brooding bad boy at a club, it doesn’t really play out with a happi-ly ever under. Despite all of America’s friends warning her about this potentially dangerous suitor, she fell for him. 
How will this love story turn out? Well, right now, it looks like 
we’re in the darker part. Mr. Rochester has just revealed his wife 
is locked up in his attic, and Heathcliff from “Wuthering Heights” 
has gone off brooding in the moors. Perhaps, like Rochester, this love affair can be redeemed. Or perhaps, as in the case of Heath-cliff, both parties will be destroyed by their own passionate affair 
We must support our public schools: Here’s how
Today, President Donald Trump’s nomi-
nee for secretary of education, Betsy DeVos, advances to her ﬁ  nal conﬁ  r-
mation vote in the U.S. Senate. Public 
outcry against DeVos has exploded in a 
big way (or, to borrow an expression from our president, “big league” or “bigly” or whatever). 
A spokesman for Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., 
said the Senate received about 1.5 million calls every day last week; a staff member of Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa., said his ofﬁ  ce received 80,000 letters pertaining solely to DeVos’ nomination. With a likely 50-
50 split for and against her conﬁ  rmation, Vice President 
Mike Pence might just make an unprecedented journey to the Senate ﬂ  oor to break the tie for a cabinet nominee.
I, too, have joined in the outcry, sending messages to 
multiple senators urging them to oppose her conﬁ  rmation. However, at the time of writing, I don’t know if the Senate has voted her in. With that in mind, rather than detail the many reasons DeVos should not hold any position in the department of education, I hereby dedicate this column to 
our public schools and, namely, what we can do to sup-
port them.
For one, hands-on assistance can help students in both 
their work and play. A little one-on-one homework tutor-
ing, for example, can motivate students to ﬁ  nish up their 
assignments, and an outdoor activity afterward allows them to let loose some energy and feel the positivity of a job well done. Public schools typically host after-school programs for these exact purposes, but they often need 
additional volunteers to keep them running. 
If you have a little extra time to contribute this semes-
ter, consider contacting a local public school and inquiring 
about volunteer opportunities like after-school programs. 
You can also do what I did for a semester and go through a 
program like MentorUF, which offers training and sets you up with a school program you can participate in during the week. Over the summer, you can reach out to programs like Kids Count in Ala-
chua County and see how and where they need 
help. This volunteering helps twofold. Not only will the schools and students beneﬁ  t from the help, but hanging out with the kids will remind 
you to keep up the positive energy — and just 
have fun sometimes.
If this semester is a particularly busy one, 
never fear: You can offer your time when you have the op-portunity later, and in the meantime, you can donate other 
resources to your local public schools. To give monetary 
donations, for example, you can donate to the Education Foundation of Alachua County, which invests in local stu-dents through scholarships and educational programs. Its 
website provides a list of programs you can support, in-
cluding Alachua County Public Schools’ Project Makeover and the science fair.
Sometimes we don’t always have money and time to 
spare, and that’s OK: We can still help our public schools 
through several free, relatively quick methods. Do you 
think we should provide better funding to particular de-partments like arts or music? Write or call your elected representatives. Do you think students should have access 
to more books at all age levels? Collect your old chapter 
books from home and ask your friends to contribute, and then take them to a local library.
There are plenty more ideas, and if you have any I 
haven’t mentioned, I encourage you to write them down, 
organize them into an opinion column like this one and 
submit them to this publication and others. No matter what happens today, we can keep working on behalf of education, kids across the country and our future.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF philosophy and criminology 
and law junior. Her column appears on Mondays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.I am attending school to become a jour-
nalist. This was not always my goal. I went through phases, as most children 
and adolescents do. My doctor phase 
was by far the longest and most in-
volved phase. I was pre-med for one se-mester before I jumped ship and realized 
my heart wasn’t in the right place to suc-
ceed and be happy in that career. I took a journey from the Chemistry Lab Building to Weimer Hall, and I never looked back. 
Part of the reason I was so afraid to 
make the change was fear of job security. As a pre-med student, I never worried about eventually having a job that paid money. As a future journalist, this is not 
the case. Plenty of people with journal-
ism degrees don’t have the job they went to school for. Now more than ever, my fu-ture career is under ﬁ  re. To make matters worse, my ﬁ  eld of interest within journal-
ism is science and health.
In the current political climate, journal-
ism is under attack. Proliferation of “fake news” and “alternative facts” 
has made a joke out of the me-dia’s dedication to providing 
people with real news.
Science is not safe, either. 
From climate-change denial 
to the creation of rogue Twitter 
accounts of government science 
agencies, this is not a particular-
ly good time for science or science media. 
I’m not writing this column to com-
plain. I’m writing this to make a point. My 
point is this: Do not give up. While I am admittedly nervous about what the future 
holds for me and those pursuing similar 
goals, I am not backing down. I am not going to change my mind and settle into a “safe” profession. Both journalism and science are 
dedicated to the truth. We’ve 
been taught from a young age that the truth is the most impor-tant thing. Time progressed, and 
we realized people can rise to 
the top by lying, cheating, deny-
ing and deceiving. While some people are okay with that, I am not. 
I am in no way saying you must pick an 
unstable career to be an effective person and help the world. We still need people to 
conduct business as usual. The world may 
actually explode otherwise. I am, however, saying that in order to ﬁ  x what is broken, we need people who are willing to adopt an unsteady role. Basically, the world 
needs you to be brave.
I will defend the truth until the bitter 
end. I refuse to sell out. I refuse to change 
my dreams because they aren’t as safe or 
stable as they once were. Most important-
ly, I refuse to stop trying to make the truth available to those who seek it. I will ﬁ  ght for what I believe in, even if it’s hard and some people make it extremely hard to do 
so.
In order to ﬁ  x what is broken, we have 
to take matters into our own hands. We 
can’t wait for those in charge to do it for 
us, because they won’t. The greatest tri-
umphs are often born from the most un-likely of circumstances. Here is our unlike-ly circumstance. Let’s get to work.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology sophomore. Her column ap-pears on Mondays.Don't give up on the truth: We must continue to defend it to the endColumn
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
A lot has happened since the last time you posted your food on Ins-tagram. Guy Montag from “Fahren-
heit 451” has ofﬁ  cially challenged 
his society. Anastasia Steele from 
“Fifty Shades of Grey” is beginning to un-derstand she is not as innocent as she, and 
everyone else, thought she was.
In our day and age, we have lost the art 
of pleasure reading, and that is not com-
pletely our fault. It is almost as though books have become shelf-decor items. I 
fully understand that college students are 
busy with class-reading assignments, lab work, part-time jobs and laundry, because I fall into the same category. In spite of 
this fact, we are also familiar with drink-
ing Four Lokos on any given day, watching shows on Netﬂ  ix, swiping through Tinder and Snapchatting nudes. For this reason, I am not convinced that squeezing in some 
extra time to read for fun will take away from the swamped schedules we 
all have.
In the simplest terms, a stan-
dard trade paperback book ranges from approximately 5-by-8 inches to 6-by-9 inches. This means that any standard book should be able 
to ﬁ  t in your purse, and, most deﬁ  -
nitely, your backpack. If it seems as though this is too much of a daunting task, bring your book instead of your cellphone with you while 
you’re dropping some loads on the toilet, 
pretending to focus on homework in the basement of your laundry room or even while waiting in line for some juicy chick-
en tacos at the dining hall.
Reading for pleasure is for people who 
want to meet and experience the cultures 
of people from the past. It is for adrenaline junkies, who would give anything to travel 
back and forth in time and space at any moment of their choosing. It is 
for people who feel the weight of the world pushing on their 
shoulders and want so desper-
ately to escape from reality.
Growing up in today’s world, 
as opposed to when our parents 
were growing up, we have been 
exposed to a limitless realm of technological advancements. Although these advancements 
have been used, for the most part, to im-
prove and simplify our lives, it has stunt-
ed us from growing intellectually. While I know that I am no scientist, when I am placed among people who have forgotten 
how to look up, engage in conversations 
and eat the food placed in front of them without feeling the need to snap a photo, I begin to question whether people are living in a world of complete satisfaction.
I will admit, getting into the routine of pleasure reading is tough for two main rea-sons. For one, you have to train your brain to be OK with temporarily leaving the me-
chanical world behind. Second, you have 
to open the book and start reading. 
While operating fancy devices and so-
cial media outlets can momentarily bring 
us joy, it becomes increasingly hard to 
go back to the simpler stuff. Substituting Snapchat for “Sense and Sensibility” can be the difference between living in 1792 with the Dashwood sisters and experienc-
ing life in England and recording yourself 
at a frat party to assure your friends you are having a blast. No ﬁ  lter can take you to the U.K. with Jane Austen by your side.
An original version of this column by 
Esther Yang originally ran in The Daily Emerald.
Reading for pleasure is the best way to leave your phone and the world behindUWire
Esther Yang
UWire“In order to ix what is broken, we have to take 
matters into our own hands. W e can't wait for 
those in charge to do it for us, because they won't.”8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Andre Valladon, dressed as Robin Hood, ﬁ  ghts with another dancer on stage during the ﬁ  rst act of 
“Robin Hood. ” Valladon is a principal dancer with Dance Alive National Ballet.
Dance Alive National Ballet performed “Robin Hood” at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Friday and Saturday. The ballet was choreographed by Kim Tuttle, the executive artistic director of the company. 
LOCAL
By Sophie Rose
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF student Gabrielle Garcia 
listened intently Sunday as she learned of the racism that plagues U.S. history.
One of about 200 in a crowd at 
the Alachua County Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. Univer-sity Ave., Garcia 
came to hear 
award-winning author and UF professor Ibram 
X. Kendi speak.
Kendi, a pro-
fessor of Afri-
can-American 
history, is the author of The New York Times Best Seller and winner 
of the 2016 National Book Award 
“Stamped from the Beginning: The Deﬁ  nitive History of Racist Ideas in America,” which details America’s 
deep-rooted racism and how its rip-
ples are still felt today.
“It was actually so cool to hear 
about all the things they keep out of 
our textbooks when we learn about racism and slavery in school,” said Garcia, a 20-year-old UF graphic de-sign sophomore.
Kendi’s appearance was a part 
of the third week of the Alachua County Library District’s 2017 Au-thor Series.
Kendi told the audience he stud-
ied more than 600 years of history that often excluded the history of African-Americans. 
“Students won’t know American 
history unless they know black his-tory,” he said. 
It’s common to believe igno-
rance and hate lead to racist ideas, which lead to racist policies, Kendi said.
“I decided I was going to differ-
entiate the producers of racist ideas and the consumers of racist ideas,” he said.
The next talk of the series will 
be held March 12 and feature au-thor Ann Hood, who has written  19 books  spanning the literary gamut.
 UF professor, best-selling author talks racism in AmericaROBIN HOOD TAKES THE STAGE
Kendi
He addressed a crowd of about 200 Grace King / Alligator Staff
Two dancers perform in front of a starry sky backdrop during Dance Alive National Ballet’s “Robin Hood” performance.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
house for devoted customers, Aker-
son said he plans on auctioning it 
off on eBay.
“It’s kind of an icon, I guess,” he 
said, “but I’d lose my mind if I had 
to wake up every morning and see 
it in my living room. So depress-
ing.” 
After news spread of the restau-
rant’s imminent closure, throngs of 
customers lined up for one last bite, 
straining Akerson’s workforce and food supply. He ran out of food ev-
ery night last week.
Employees had to work hard to 
serve five to six times more custom-ers than usual, Akerson said. And although they had no breaks, many showed up as early as 4 a.m., with-out being asked, to start each day.
“Loyalty like that can’t be pur-
chased,” Akerson said. “I’m really proud of those kids.”
The employees stood behind the 
restaurant’s bar in a row as Aker-son thanked them for their help at about 4:25 p.m. Saturday. They held hands and draped their arms over each other’s shoulders.
“I never could have done what 
I have done over the years without people like this and the ones that came before them,” Akerson said over the microphone used to call out orders. “God bless them, god love them.”
Akerson said he’s always tried 
to be there for them, going as far as making loans in the past to help out some of his employees with tuition. 
That mentality earned him the 
nicknames of “dad” and “grandpa,” despite not having any kids of his own.
Adam Mickler, 23, a Burrito 
Bros. manager who worked at the restaurant for nearly five years, said he enjoyed being a part of a local business.
“Seeing the person you work 
for every day is f------ amazing,” he said, adding that he has no idea where he’ll work next.
Employees opened the restau-
rant at 11 a.m. and worked until they sold the last burrito at about 6:30 p.m.
By the afternoon, the restau-
rant ran out of food and drinks. Staff started writing what custom-ers couldn’t order on a blackboard hanging over the bar. People who wanted sweet potatoes, soft tacos, corn salsa or cabbage were out of luck. The last pitcher of beer was sold at 3 p.m.
Michelle Tomlinson, 18, said 
she couldn’t order a pork burrito because the restaurant had run out of pork. She was debating between chorizo or chicken.
“I would get two burritos, but 
that’s a lot of money,” the UF biol-ogy freshman said.
Jim O’Sullivan, 44, ordered 
three burritos, two for him and one 
for his wife. 
“Maybe I’ll have the other to-
morrow,” he said.
Mike Thenn, 52, said he drove 
two hours from Orlando for his last 
Burrito Bros. meal, consisting of a burrito and taco. He said he would have driven five hours.
“It was well worth it,” he said. 
“We have lots of good memories here.”
Since he graduated in the ‘80s, 
Thenn has often traveled back to Gainesville for UF basketball 
games, always stopping at Burrito Bros. before going to the O’Connell 
Center.
But with the season in full 
swing, and his favorite restaurant on its last leg, he said he would need to start a new ritual. 
“There are plenty of options, but 
it won’t be the same,” he said. “We are losing a tradition.”
For Kim Le, 18, Saturday was a 
first. She waited for an hour before her chicken burrito was ready, but she said she was glad to partake in some Gainesville history.
“I’ve been wanting to go,” the 
UF biology freshman said. “We chose to come in between lunch and dinner. There’s a shorter wait now.”
After closing the restaurant, the 
employees, Randy and his wife took pictures together in front of the restaurant’s logo. They hugged each other and cried on each oth-
er’s shoulders as they said goodbye. 
Many employees had already 
packed up souvenirs: menus, wine 
glasses and as many T-shirts as they could find. 
Jack O’Connor, the staff’s lon-
gest-working employee, took the restaurant’s final serving of chips and guacamole for a friend. 
“It’s for my friend Gabi,” said 
O’Connor, who was hired in Octo-
ber 2005. “It’s in honor of her. She 
grew up here. I met her here.”
As for Akerson, he said he plans 
to spend the next four months hik-ing the Appalachian Trail.
“I want to be alone with my 
thoughts to deal with this level of grief,” he said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
BURRITO,  from pg.1The restaurant averaged about 3 burritos per customer Saturday
Jimena T avel / Alligator
From left: Karla Arboleda, a 20-year-old UF journalism junior, Chase Dryer, a 22-year-old UF telecommunication senior, and William McDavid, a 19-year-old Santa Fe College pre-nursing sophomore, hug on Saturday evening.
Grace King / Alligator
A look inside Burrito Brothers T aco Co. ’s kitchen after about 1,500 burritos were made on Saturday. 
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Burrito Brothers T aco Co. is packed with people hoping to get one of the last burritos on Saturday afternoon. People traveled from all over the state in order to eat at Burrito Bros. one last time.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-8-17-20-2HOUSE - 3BR/2BA, w/ fireplace off SW 13th St, near IHOP restaurant. 3627 SW 13th St. Big front yard, fenced backyard, close to Vet School, UF & downtown. $950/mo. Call or text 352-2327-2931, email: nghe@msn.com    2-10-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10CEMETERY PLOTS2 side-by-side, right by Hawthorne Rd in sold-out section of beautiful Forest Meadows - east Gainesville. Lot 194, Sec B, Spaces 3 & 4. $2000 each. Call 352-234-0286    2-10-5-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AAStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Good Times Outdoors, Inc. is seeking an
individual for promoting our brands on a
variety of Social media sites and forums.
The position is negotiable as to time
spent onsite and time spent remotely.
The successful candidate will have
experience and knowledge in social media
marketing, a knowledge of outdoor sports, 
boating, hunting and firearms is preferable. 
Interested parties may contact by email at:
doug@core15.com
2-8-17-6-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
***PROMOTERS WANTED***
Seeking health conscious entrepreneurs to 
build an at-home business and sales team 
in a global health and wellness company.
*Must be ready to start now!
*Money Motivated
*Willing to learn
No experience required,
full training provided, flexible hours.
Call 815-557-3209 serious inquiries only.
2-9-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/6-2/9 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-6-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Most musicals
have two
5 Start to faceted
or purpose
10 Modern
organizers, for
short
14 Countenance15 In front16 Wine prefix17 First chip in the
poker pot
18 Football with
scrums
19 Songwriter
Kristofferson
20 Player who
shoots parregularly
23 Malted relative24 Magnolia State
school, familiarly
27 Baseball
misplays
31 Calendar page32 Floppy disk
backup device
35 Forest official36 Angsty rock
genre
37 Michelangelo
statue
39 R&B’s __ Hill40 Changes gears43 Ballad for a
valentine
46 Start of a Poitier
film title
47 Seek 
ambitiously
48 O. Henry works50 Mexican dip54 Virtually zero,
and where theends of 20-, 32-and 43-Acrossare literallysituated
58 Slick-talking60 Jokes and such61 Cupid62 Save for binge-
watching, say
63 ’50s nuclear trial64 Dressed in
65 River of Hades66 Barcelona
babies
67 Joint commonly
replacedDOWN
1 Accumulate, as a
fortune
2 Easy-peasy task
3 Aquarium fish4 Moved stealthily5 Artist Chagall
6 “Nah”
7 __ Mason:
investment giant
8 No-nos
9 Poem of rustic life
10 Critters hunted
with a hugely
popular 2016
mobile app
11 Heroic exploits
12 Young Darth’s
nickname
13 Distress signal at
sea
21 La. or Dak., once22 Disaster relief org.25 Titanic rear end26 “So what”
shoulder gesture
28 Fabric flaws29 Egg: Pref.
30 Fishing line
holders
32 Thin citrus peels
33 Words spoken by
a sweater?34 Plant responsible
for much itching
35 Sitarist Shankar
38 High side41 Locomotive
furnace
42 Cereal coveted
by a silly rabbit
44 Former “formerly”45 Seattle football pro47 Sharp as a tack49 Wharton’s Frome51 Chihuahua citrus
fruit
52 Boring lecture, for
example
53 Share the same
opinion
55 Dark clouds,
perhaps
56 Aroma detector57 Leftover bits58 Classic sports cars59 Set fire to
By Jake Braun
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/06/1702/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. Name the first player in major-
league history to have an extra-base 
hit in his first six postseason games.
2. How many times has a New York 
Mets player hit 40 or more home runs 
in a season?
3. When was the last time before the 
2015 season that the Iowa Hawkeyes played in the Rose Bowl?
4. A.C. Green holds the NBA record 
for most consecutive games played. How many is it?
5. Who was the last rookie under the 
age of 20 before Edmonton’s Connor McDavid to average at least a point a game for the season?
6. At the 2016 Summer Olympics, 
cyclist Kristin Armstrong became the second American woman to win three gold medals in the same event in any Olympics. Who was the first?
7. In 2016, golfer Henrik Stenson 
tied a record for lowest final round in winning a men’s major (63). Who also holds the mark?
Answers
1. Colby Rasmus of the Houston 
Astros in 2015.
2. Three times — Carlos Beltran (41 
in 2006), Todd Hundley (41 in 1996) and Mike Piazza (40 in 1999).
3. It was after the 1990 season.4. He played in 1,192 consecutive 
games.
5. Pittsburgh’s Sidney Crosby, in the 
2005-06 season.
6. Speedskater Bonnie Blair (1988-
94).
7. Johnny Miller, who shot a 63 in 
the final round of the 1973 U.S. Open. 
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 6, 2017 King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Patriots defeat Falcons, 34-28, in Super Bowl LI
New England came back from a 25-point deficit to beat Atlanta in the 
first ever Super Bowl overtime. Super Bowl MVP T om Brady became the first quarterback to win five NFL championships.AJ McFarland didn't throw a 
discus until a high school coach suggested it. Now he's breaking throwing records at UF. Read the story, pg 15Re-energized UF basketball team flexing its ‘beer muscles’
SEE MEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Before the sold-out crowd cried 
out, before the Kentucky defender 
regained his balance, before the 
ball went in the basket, UF point 
guard Kasey Hill was already drifting back on defense. 
He knew it was going in. 
His crossover into a midrange 
jumper gifted the Gators a nine-
point lead that they never gave up.
“Kasey Hill is not known as a 
jump shooter,” Kentucky coach John Calipari said. “He made five straight shots.”
“That happens against us. 
Guys, they have beer muscles. All of a sudden they’re better than they are.”
No. 24 Florida flexed those 
beer muscles Saturday night in 
the O’Connell Center, beating No. 
8 Kentucky, 88-66. The Gators became the first team to hold the Wildcats to just 66 points along 
with a season-low 37.7 shooting percentage. 
UK’s offense came into the 
O’Connell Center scoring more than 90 points per game on better 
than 48 percent shooting from the field.
“We were very, very good 
defensively against one of the best offensive teams in the country,” UF coach Mike White said. 
It was quite a different tone 
than the one White carried two 
Saturdays ago, when UF dropped 
its first home game to Vanderbilt. 
After Vanderbilt, White said 
the Gators were at a “fork in the road.” “"People called each other out, 
but it wasn't personal. W e said 
we weren't going to be mad 
about anything anyone said.
W e took it all on the chest. 
Everybody was humble and 
humbled in there. No egos.”
Devin Robinson
Florida forward
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Florida women’s basketball 
coach Amanda Butler was less 
than pleased with her team’s effort following its seventh loss in nine SEC games this season.
The Gators fell to Texas A&M 
84-76 on Thursday night after a lackluster performance in the interior, allowing the Aggies to convert 18 offensive rebounds into 15 second-chance points.UF was outrebounded 44-28 in 
the contest and had no answer for 6-foot-5 center Khaalia Hillsman, leading Butler to call out her players in the postgame.
“I’m a little bit old fashioned,” 
she said in a video posted to YouTube. “When you’re a great rebounding team, it just has a lot to do with desire and not as much to do with technique. When you’re going against somebody that you’re giving up three or four inches… you’ve got to bend your knees a little bit more and dig down a little bit deeper. We didn’t do that.”
Now, after having a full weekend 
to reflect on the defeat, Florida (11-11, 2-7 SEC) will need to improve its energy on the offensive glass when it 
Women's basketball team hoping to rebound by grabbing reboundsWOMEN'S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
In what coach Roland Thorn-
qvist described as “high-level tennis 
throughout,” the Gators women’s tennis team defeated No. 3 Pepper-dine 5-2 Saturday to earn its first 
road victory of the season and earn 
Thornqvist his 450th all-time win. 
“I thought we were outstanding,” 
Thornqvist said in a release. “We competed really, really well.”
Florida had a rough start to 
its weekend after Friday’s match against No. 22 Southern California was cancelled due to rain. 
With this news, Florida was forced to turn its attention immedi-ately to Pepperdine, which houses three top-25 singles players and two doubles teams in the top 10. 
The Gators earned their first point 
of the match in doubles play, which has proven to be the team’s strength early in the season. The pair of Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock were first off the court after defeat-ing Dzina Milovanovic and Ashley Lahey 6-4. 
Anna Danilina and Ingrid Neel 
then continued their dominance, defeating the No. 8 doubles team of Apichaya Runglerdkriangkrai and Luisa Stefani 7-5. Danilina and Neel are now 3-0 as a pair. The defending national champion 
doubles team of Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan continued to battle this weekend as they did not fin-
ish their third consecutive doubles 
match. The pair was tied 5-5 with the No. 3 team of Christine Maddox and Mayar Sherif Ahmed when the match was ended. 
The Gators continued to fight in 
singles play, as four sets went to tie-breakers with Florida winning three of them.
Kuhlman continued her accom-
plished start to the season as she was first off the court for the second con-secutive time, defeating Laura Gulbe 6-4, 6-1. Austin was next off the court, defeating Runglerdkriangkrai in dramatic fashion 7-6 (9-7), 6-3. 
Ingrid Neel was handed her first 
singles loss of the season Saturday, 
losing a close match to No. 21 Lahey 
7-6 (7-5), 6-4. Keegan was the decid-ing factor in the match, capturing a 6-1, 7-6 (7-0) win over Milovanovic. 
Although Florida won the match 
at 4-1, the game continued as Danili-na defeated No. 22 Sherif Ahmed 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, and Woolcock was also handed her first singles loss of the 
season, going down to No. 8 Stefani 
2-6, 6-1, 6-3. 
Altogether, Thornqvist said he 
was pleased with what he saw from his team this weekend. The team will return home this 
week before heading to Connecticut to compete in the National Team In-door Championships Friday through 
Monday. 
“Overall, I think we were able to 
do the right things under pressure,” 
Thornqvist said in a release. “We had to come in, had to play great de-fense at the right time and keep our poise. I'm just really proud of how we performed and look forward to coming home for a couple of days 
and then set sail to the National In-
door Championships.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org
Gators defeat No. 3 Pepperdine in “high-level tennis” matchCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill dribbles during Florida's win over Kentucky on Saturday. The senior led the Gators with 21 
points. 
SEE W. BASKETBALL,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9th
faces Ole Miss tonight at the O’Connell 
Center.
Like Texas A&M, the Rebels boast 
a roster full of players that clock in at over six-feet tall.
Taylor Manuel, a 6-foot-4 forward 
who came to Ole Miss as a graduate transfer from Loyola Chicago, has started all but one game this year and is shooting 47.3 percent from the ﬂ  oor.
Shequila Joseph, a 6-foot-3 senior 
forward, has corralled a team-leading 43 offensive rebounds this season while also knocking down 14 jumpers from behind the three-point line.
Shelby Gibson, a 6-foot-3 freshman 
center, logs 15 minutes of action per game and is one of two Rebels with a ﬁ  eld goal percentage above .500.
Freshman forward Kate Rodgers, 
sophomore center Cecilia Muhate and senior forward Bretta Hart all also check in at 6-foot-1 or taller, meaning Florida will need strong frontcourt play if it wants to combat Ole Miss’ 
size.
One player in particular Florida 
will need a big outing from is senior 
forward Ronni Williams.
Williams, the SEC’s leading scorer 
at 19.4 points per game, is coming 
off one of her worst performances of 
the season on Thursday against the Aggies, when she totaled just nine 
points on 4-of-12 shooting.
UF is winless in conference play 
this year when Williams scores less 
than 10 points, putting an emphasis on the Daytona Beach native to improve on her previous outing if the Gators want to beat the Rebels.
“She just played with a little bit of 
frustration,” Butler said. “That’s not the way that Ronni plays.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgW. BASKETBALL,  from pg13UF hasn't won an SEC game when Williams scores fewer than 10MEN'S TENNIS
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Alfredo Perez stood on the 
baseline and watched as the ball sailed just wide. His teammates dogpiled him. 
The sophomore and No. 13 
ranked player in the country had just defeated the No. 11 player in the country, UCLA’s Gage Brymer, and clinched a Florida victory over the No. 6 Bruins. 
Florida kicked off its brutal 
February schedule against the No. 8 USC Trojans on Saturday, followed by a matchup with fellow Pac-12 powerhouse UCLA. 
And on both Saturday and 
Sunday, the Gators started off their matches from behind.
Florida narrowly lost both 
doubles matches against its Pac-12 opponents, but it came back ﬁ  ghting in singles play.
“One of those buzz words is 
resiliency. We really talk about that a lot,” coach Bryan Shelton said. 
“(We) really sent them a message 
early that, ‘You’re not going to roll through us. We’re resilient and tough, and we’re going to compete until the last ball is struck.’”
Florida came 
out ﬁ  ring in singles play on 
Saturday.
Led by the performances of senior 
captain Elliott Orkin and sophomore Alfredo Perez, the Gators were able 
to win ﬁ  ve of the ﬁ  rst six sets over 
USC. Orkin and Perez were the ﬁ  rst 
two Gators to ﬁ  nish their singles matches, winning by respective scores of 6-3, 6-3 and 6-1, 6-2. 
And needing to win four out of 
the six singles matches, Florida won the ﬁ  rst four matches, clinching the victory when sophomore Mcclain Kessler hit a forehand winner past USC’s Thibault Forget.
Against UCLA, the Gators 
responded in similar fashion. Trailing after doubles play, the Gators took 
control of singles, capturing four of 
the ﬁ  rst six sets. And with early match wins by 
Kessler and freshman Johannes Ingildsen, the Gators were able ﬁ  nish the match on the backs of Orkin and Perez once again and knock off a top-10 team for the second time in as many days. 
“It comes down to belief,” said 
Shelton. “They see themselves as a tough, resilient team. And it feels great for our guys to get some validation for the hard work that they’ve put in.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Gators sweep weekend series against top-10 opponents
Alfredo Perez
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams drives into the paint during Florida's loss to South Carolina on Jan. 8 in the O'Connell Center. Williams leads the SEC in points per game. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer 
Florida redshirt sophomore 
thrower AJ McFarland said his 
magic number for the 2017 season 
was 70. 
McFarland said reaching 70 
feet in the weight throw indoors 
and 70 meters in the hammer 
throw outdoors would make him 
competitive at a national level. 
He entered the Virginia Tech 
“Doc Hale” Elite Meet on Friday 
ranked third on UF’s all-time indoor top 10 with a personal record fewer than six inches away from the magic number of 70. 
Well, there was “magic” 
in Blacksburg, Virginia, this weekend. 
McFarland threw for 71 feet, 
1.25 inches in the men’s weight throw finals to break the Florida men’s all-time indoor record – a record that has stood since 2012. 
Not only did the DeLand, 
Florida, native beat the record, but he also the got the win. 
McFarland said he started 
competing in track after a coach 
at his high school approached 
him and said he’d make for a good discus thrower. So the following year, he tried it out. 
“January came around, and 
I went out and just threw the discus,” McFarland said. “I kind of fell in love with it.” 
McFarland, who also competed 
in varsity football and lacrosse in 
high school at Father Lopez High 
School in Daytona Beach, Florida, said he hadn’t even begun thinking about competing in track at the collegiate level until the 
summer before his senior year.
That year, he became a state 
champion. 
Now at Florida in his redshirt 
sophomore season, his record-
breaking mark is currently ranked 11th in Division I, which keeps McFarland in contention for an NCAA Indoor Championships 
berth. 
And he saved a little magic for 
his teammates over the weekend 
as well. 
On Day 2 of the meet, junior 
thrower Lloydricia Cameron won the women’s shot put final with the third longest throw of her indoor career: 54 feet, 10.25 
inches. Her longest throw of the 
season — 57 feet, 3.75 inches — is currently ranked sixth in Division I. 
Cameron also had success in 
the women’s weight throw finals, placing fourth with a throw of 63 feet, 9 inches. She was followed by her teammates Amara Wiggan, 
who placed 9th, and Jontavia Dykes, who finished 11th. 
Freshman Connor Bandel 
made the Gators 2-0 in the men and women’s shot put finals at 
the meet with an event-winning throw and personal record of 59 feet, 1.25 inches.  
Up next for Florida, the team 
fully returns to the rubber Feb. 10 and 11 at the Tyson Invitational in Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the Iowa State Classic in Ames, Iowa. 
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.orgMcFarland breaks record in men’s weight throw for UF track
Courtesy of UAA Communications
AJ McFarland competes at the 2016 SEC Indoor Track and Field Championships on Feb. 27, 2016. 
McFarland broke the Florida men’s all-time indoor record for weight throw at Virginia T ech on Friday.
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
After a slow start to the 2016 
season, the Florida men’s golf team found its rhythm and has been playing with confidence.
Following a fifth-place finish 
at the Carpet Capital Invitational in Dalton, Georgia, the Gators re-bounded to finish in the top two of their final three events of the Fall season. 
Thanks to the two team wins, 
the Gators go into the Spring season as the No. 3-ranked team in the country, trailing Vanderbilt and Illinois.  
After finishing first at the Tavis-
tock Collegiate in mid-October, the Gators began a break in between tournaments that spanned three and a half months. The team will finally return to action today, as it will travel fewer than two hours to Ponte Vedra for the Sea Best Invi-tational, an event the Gators won last season. 
At that tournament, four Gators 
finished in the top five, and the team won the event by 23 strokes. After Sea Best, the team will host the SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course and then travel to UNLV, Georgia Southern and Vanderbilt before competing at the SEC Champion-ship tournament from April 21-23 in St. Simons Island, Georgia. The team is full of talent, includ-
ing a freshman who once played in the U.S. Open, as well as a sopho-more with three individual tourna-ment titles. 
Andy Zhang, the only newcom-
er to the team, became the young-est person to ever participate in one of the golf world’s most prominent tournaments, the U.S. Open. 
At the age of 14, Zhang com-
peted with some of the best golfers in the world at the Olympic Club in San Francisco, California. Four years later, Zhang was ranked the No. 1-overall golf recruit in the na-tion by Golfweek.com. Now, with a few tournaments played and a top-10 finish at the Windon Memorial Classic, Zhang goes into the Spring season as a player to watch for the Gators.
Another guy to keep an eye on 
is First-Team All-American sopho-more Sam Horsfield. 
Horsfield, the 2015-16 SEC 
Freshman of the Year, is looking to improve his game after finish-ing outside of the top five in every tournament during the Fall. After a dominant freshman year during which he captured three individual tournament titles, eight top-five finishes and competed in every tournament, it was announced that he would be going pro at the end of the Spring season. 
Coach J.C. Deacon, who is en-
tering his third year as the Gators’ head coach, had high praise for the young Horsfield. 
“It’s tough for all of us that 
Sam is turning pro,” Deacon said. “We’re gonna miss him as a friend and a teammate and a person. And obviously, it’ll be tough to replace those golf scores. He’s been such a great player. But at the same time, we’re all really excited for his fu-ture and what’s coming up.” 
Last year, Horsfield won the 
Sea Best Invitational, the Southern Highlands Collegiate and the Ma-son Rudolph Championship, three tournaments the team is playing in again this year. 
And both he and his teammates 
are hoping for repeat performances in 2017. 
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org
Florida men’s golf team looking to be the best at Sea Best
Alligator File Photo 
Sam Horsfield lines up a shot during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. Horsfield is planning on turning pro after the upcoming season. 
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2017
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  ZellerOwner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER 
TIME THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE 
THE BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
They had just lost their second straight 
SEC game with a disheveled defense and an 
offense averaging under 60 points per game 
during that slide. 
Now the Gators have rattled off a three-
game streak of 30-point wins and knocked 
off the SEC’s perennial top dog by more 
than 20 points. 
White credits the transformation to a 
team meeting the players held after the loss to Vanderbilt. 
For about two hours, UF’s players 
hashed out their issues.
"People called each other out, but it 
wasn't personal. We said we weren't 
going to be mad about anything anyone said," junior forward Devin Robinson told FloridaGators.com. "We took it all on the 
chest. Everybody was humble and humbled 
in there. No egos.”
White said the meeting was largely about 
the players recommitting to each other on defense, holding each other accountable.
Four games later, the Gators are 
playing their best basketball of the year, as 
evidenced by their ﬁ  rst win over a ranked 
team on Saturday.
“Hey beating Kentucky is great. They’re 
one of the best teams in the country,” White said. “But we’re 8-2. We’re halfway 
through league play. We’ve got a ways to 
go.”
UF’s ﬁ  rst stop is Athens, Georgia, for 
part two of the Bulldogs-Gators season series. In January, it took overtime for UF to pull out a come-from-behind 80-76 win.
With that on his mind, White said the 
Gators can celebrate the Kentucky win for all of an hour before shifting their focus. 
“I’m gonna go home and hug my kids 
and have a big pizza with my wife and feel good about it,” White said. 
“And then we’re on to Georgia. That’s 
it.”                                   
   @MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg13The Gators play Georgia for the second time on Thursday in Athens
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill drives to the rim in No. 24 Florida's 88-66 win over No. 8 Kentucky in the O'Connell Center on Saturday.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White gestures from the bench with a 
ripped shirt. “I’m gonna go home and hug my kids and have a big pizza with my wife and feel good about it, ” White said after the win over No. 8 Kentucky. 
