STUDENTS VOICED THEIR 
DISMAY ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Amid controversy over reconstruction, 
the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures 
and the Institute of Black Culture were de-molished Saturday. 
Christopher Wilde, a 21-year-old micro-
biology and cell science senior who served on Multicultural and Diversity Affairs’ ren-ovation advisory committee before, said the demolition surprised him. He expected more notice for the exact day. 
“That’s a really unpleasant image to see 
for people who have a strong connection to those buildings,” he said.
On the “No La IBCita” Facebook page, created to protest the uniﬁ  cation 
of the two buildings, students expressed their surprise that the buildings were sud-denly torn down. 
Will Atkins, the executive director of 
MCDA, said they let the community know around mid-summer that the demolition would happen around this time. 
Atkins said the community had been 
made aware that the buildings would be destroyed through social media posts, an email and announcements in live webinars. 
“The community was very well-aware 
that they were going to be demolished,” he said. “In order for us to rebuild two new buildings on the same site, the buildings had to be demolished.”
The institutes had been the source of We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 1 MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
Zaire adds to QB race
The acquisition of transfer Malik Zaire 
has thrown a wrench in UF’s quarterback competition. Read on pg. 25
Richard Spencer denied speaking request
UF cited safety concerns, pg. 10
Standard opens to some complaints
Some amenities are incomplete, pg. 13FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Welcome Back
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
COULD NOT RELEASE 
HOW MUCH IT IS PAYING 
THE ARTISTS.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Rapper Snoop Dogg and pop 
singer Daya will be the next Gator 
Growl entertainers. 
The two artists will come for 
Gator Growl, UF’s Homecoming pep rally, which will take place Oct. 6 at 6 p.m. on Flavet Field, said Millie Llanes, the event’s executive producer. 
Student tickets are $15, 
and general public tickets are $25. Tickets can be bought on Ticketmaster, through gatorgrowl.org or at the University Box Ofﬁ  ce.
Gator Growl organizers 
announced the artists Friday night at New Student Convocation, a yearly event that welcomes all ﬁ  rst-year UF students. 
Florida Blue Key, an honor 
society, is hosting the event, and Student Government Productions is paying the artists, Llanes said.
SGP Chairman Alex DesRosiers 
said SGP has not ﬁ  nalized paperwork yet, so he cannot release the exact amount they’re paying the artists. 
Last year, SGP paid a combined 
total of $230,000 for four acts, 
according to Alligator archives. 
Llanes said the event’s student 
organizing committee selected the 
artists after surveying students 
and searching Spotify charts.
“I feel that we got an artist that 
transcends generations,” Llanes 
said. 
Taylor Perrye, a UF sociology 
junior, said she has only attended Gator Growl once, and she remembers being uninterested. She didn’t go back her sophomore year.
But after ﬁ  nding out Snoop 
Dogg will come this year, she plans to go.
“It’s pretty cool,” the 20-year-
old said. “He was a part of all of 
our childhoods during our middle 
-school and high-school super-loaded rap days.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgSnoop Dogg and Daya to perform at Gator Growl
Daya
 Snoop Dogg
Well, here we are. It’s the start of another Fall se-mester. Freshmen are 
moving in, our gradu-
ate friends are gone, 
and the world is changing. The Al-ligator isn’t immune to that. 
To those of you who don’t know, 
we announced over the Summer that we will no longer print daily and instead move to three days a week. For decades, countless stu-
dents have slaved away to print 
articles every weeknight, foregoing homework and sleep for the sake of journalism. In our time here as edi-tors, we haven’t seen people nearly as committed and hardworking as 
those who produce this paper. 
While we move into a three-
day-a-week publishing schedule, 
we at the Alligator are writing to 
promise you, dear reader, that our 
work ethic won’t change. The pa-per will no longer be different ev-ery morning when you pass by the newsstands on Turlington Plaza, 
but that doesn’t mean our staff is 
going to start slacking. Quite the contrary. We at the Alligator intend to continue producing news for the Gainesville and UF community daily. Our website will be updated 
frequently as we dive into a digital 
newsroom. For the record, a digital newsroom is becoming the stan-dard now that everyone gets their 
news from Facebook or Twitter. 
I know you’ve heard it a thou-
sand times since November 2016, 
but journalism is becoming more important than ever. We have a 
president who criticizes legitimate 
journalism as “fake news.” Our moral codes are tested as we stare in the face of the country’s hate, which has always been closer to home than we realize. As members 
of “the media,” we urge you, dear 
readers, to pay attention to what’s happening in the world around you. Watch the news, listen to 
NPR or pick up a newspaper. As 
journalists, our primary goal is to tell others’ stories. Listen to them, because we don’t plan to stop tell-ing them. 
Leading the Alligator into this 
new format is incredibly daunting and humbling. Newspapers have traditionally been slow to change, but in our unusual times we have to adapt to stay alive. 
As the editors of the Alligator, 
we promise to continue producing fair, balanced content to all of our readers. We will work harder than 
ever before to write stories that 
matter and get them to you as fast as possible. The number of printed papers may decrease, but the pas-sion and hard work of our staff will 
not. 
It’s the start of another semes-
ter, and the Alligator is here to stay. 
Our promise to our readersThe IBC and La Casita 
demolished for reconstruction
SEE DEMOLITION,  PAGE 4 Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
RALL Y IN THE SWAMP
Attendees at the fourth annual Rally in the Swamp raise their hands to catch T-shirts 
thrown by UF athletes inside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Sunday night.
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Observing the eclipse on cam-
pus 
On Monday, UF’s astronomy 
department will open the 
Campus Teaching Observatory, located on Sweetwater Drive, for people to view the total 
solar eclipse. The observatory 
will open at 1 p.m. and close at 4:30 p.m. The eclipse will start at 1:15 p.m. and end at 4:11 p.m., with the maximum point 
at 2:47 p.m. Telescopes with 
solar filters will be provided to observe the eclipse, and a lim-ited number of glasses can be 
borrowed. 
English Country Dance 
The United Church of 
Gainesville, at 1624 NW Fifth 
Ave., is hosting a country 
dance every Monday from 6:40 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. for all ages. All dances are taught and called, with music from Hoggetowne Fancy. Tickets are $5. 
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event in August. The gallery features hundreds of quality, 
handcrafted fine arts and crafts 
created by regional artists. The event will be held at the gal-lery, located at 201 SE Second 
Place, Suite 113. For more in-
formation, call 352-378-1383 or visit artisansguildgallery.com.
'Layers' exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents "Layers" in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The exhibition 
features work by street artist 
Iryna Kanishcheva. The show includes photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall. A free opening reception for "Layers" 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the gallery. Visit arts.
ufl.edu/university-galleries for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published MONDAYs and MONDAYs.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
Gatorskeetandtrap.com
Hours of Operation
Mon, Wed, Fri, Sat—1-6 pmSPECIAL OFFER
FOR NON-MEMBERS:
One Free Round of Skeet or Trap
Does not include ammunition
Available for purchase on site
BRING TO CLUB FOR SPECIAL PRICE
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
5202 NE 46th Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
Behind the airport in the Airport Industrial Park
(352) 372-1044
www.facebook.com/clay.target.1
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 112 ISSUE 1MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Hi Students!
Come discover your brand-new Publix in Gainesville. We’re just a quick walk, skip, or scooter ride away from 
campus. You’ll find everything you’ve come to expect from Publix: Grab and Go options galore,  
Online Easy Ordering for fast and convenient service, and tailgating essentials for game day!
As a welcome back from all of us at Publix, enjoy the exclusive offer below .  
We look forward to serving you and to being your new neighbor.
Publix at University Village Market
203 NW 13th St
Gainesville, FL 32601Store: 352.375.2775
Store Hours:
7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. daily
Pharmacy Hours:
Monday - Friday: 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.Saturday: 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.Sunday: 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.Pharmacy: 352.339.7474
publix.com
NW 3rd A ve.
W. University A ve.NW 13th St .
Limit one coupon per household per day. Excluding all alcohol, 
tobacco, lottery items, money services, postage stamps, gift cards, and prescriptions. Customer is responsible for all applicable taxes. Reproduction or transfer of this coupon is strictly prohibited. Offer good 8/21/2017–9/03/2017 at your neighborhood Publixoff
your purchase
of $30 or more$5
LU# 13824
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK song
LIVE MUSIC & EVENTS, DJ’S, ART SHOWS, COMEDY, 
THEATER, FOOD TRUCK RALLY’S, RENTALS
OUTDOOR BEER GARDEN, ALWAYS NO COVER
210 SW 2ND AVE. • 18+ WELCOME
NEXT TO 5 STAR PIZZA, DOWNTOWN
highdivegville
glorydayspresents@highdivegville
@glorydaysgnv
@highdivegville
@glorydaysgnv
MORE EVENTS AND INFO
www. HIGHDIVEGAINESVILLE .comTICKETS:
.comAUG 31  CHESTER BENNINGTON TRIBUTE
SEP 1 / 2 LESS THAN JAKE WAKE N BAKE WEEKEND
SEP 8  FAMILY FORCE 5
SEP 9  THE HEAVY PETS
SEP 13  MAGIC CITY HIPPIES
SEP 14  MCW MIDGET WRESTLING
SEP 23  ORIGINAL GVILLE FOOD TRUCK RALLY - FREE
SEP 27  PAPADOSIO
SEP 28  COREY SMITH
OCT 4, 12, 17  ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW
OCT 13  CRAIG FINN / JOHN K SAMSON
OCT 19  THE LACS
OCT 27 - 29  THE FEST 16
OCT 31  MARCUS KING BAND
NOV 8  WILD CHILD
NOV 11  HIPPO CAMPUS
DEC 12  OF MONTREAL
OCT 19  SCOTT BRADLEE’S POSTMODERN JUKEBOX  
 @ FL THEATER OF GAINESVILLE
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
The remains of the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, known as La Casita, and the 
Institute of Black Culture sit behind a construction fence. The two buildings were demolished Saturday for reconstruction. 
Controversy sparked over the sudden destruction
controversy and outrage when blueprints 
showed a connected building with distinct wings, instead of two separate buildings. In response, students created petitions and 
social media pages, like the “No La IBCita” 
Facebook page, advocating for separate buildings. 
In mid-July, about 100 students marched 
from Turlington Plaza to the Reitz Union, 
where the advisory committee was holding a 
meeting, according to Alligator archives. 
Later in July, MCDA announced the build-
ings would remain separate. An upcoming town hall meeting scheduled for Wednes-
day intends to bring together UF students 
and administrators. The event had initially been planned for Aug. 1 but was postponed when UF would not send administrators to the event. 
Wilde said he felt MCDA was not trans-
parent enough with its plans, and that he feels he was punished for speaking out as a 
member of the advisory committee. He said 
he has not been included in the new project 
team for the two buildings, which includes 
14 people. “I think everybody involved in opposing 
administration was intentionally removed from the process and distanced from the 
decision-making table,” Wilde said. 
Students and faculty were chosen because 
they represented black and Latinx interests, 
are elected student leaders or bring insight 
as faculty, Atkins said. He said a detailed ex-
planation of how members were chosen was 
posted on MCDA’s website.
Open input sessions for the reconstruc-
tion will be held throughout the Fall, Atkins 
said. He said the dates would be announced 
soon. 
“We are just excited for the reconstruc-
tion of the two spaces and look forward to 
making sure students and various stakehold-ers are aware of our plans,” he said. 
Wilde worries the new buildings will 
blend in with the rest of campus or feel too sterile, not like the homes they used to be.
“Students need to be more involved, and 
there need to be more students on that com-
mittee,” Wilde said. “I hope that there’s more 
transparency with the new project team.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgDEMOLITION,  from pg. 1MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
MEET THE EDITORS
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 21 thru 
Friday August 25
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
Looking for Team 
Members to bring a 
European medical 
device to market  
in the USA.
• Full or part time,  
flexible hours
• Training and materials 
provided
• No quotas and excellent 
earning potential
• No experience necessary
• Work with UF MBA, 
Nationwide
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705 to start immediately.Katelyn Newberg is a 21-year-old UF journalism se-
nior and history minor and the Alligator’s editor-in-chief this Fall. She joined the Alligator in Spring 2016 and has covered the administration beat, the Student Government beat and worked as the uni-
versity editor. This summer she drove across the country to Las Vegas, Nevada, where she covered business for the Las Vegas Review-Journal and got too many sunburns from hiking. She also stayed the night at a haunted clown motel for an article. She grew up in Orlando down the road from Disney World and got her ﬁ  rst job as a lifeguard at a Uni-versal Studios Theme Parks hotel. Katelyn started at UF as an exploratory major, meaning she had no idea what to do with her life. She credits the Alligator for helping her ﬁ  nd 
her calling, which includes doing as little math as possible. 
After graduating, she plans to adopt a cat and cover lo-cal news in whatever big city with a newspaper willing to hire her. When not editing or trying to keep Michael Smith in check, she can be found drinking coffee, rewatching “Parks and Recreation” or reading about obscure history. Abigail Miller is a 20-year-old UF journalism 
junior and the opinions editor this Fall. She started at the Alligator in Spring 2017 as a 
columnist. She prides herself on her ability 
to consume nearly six cups of coffee per day 
and the fact that she knows the entire “Hamilton” soundtrack by heart. She considers herself a pug en-
thusiast and hopes one day to own a black pug named 
Benedict — Benny for short. She loves all things poli-tics and will hopefully ﬁ  nd a job doing communica-tions for a nonproﬁ  t organization like the American Civil Liberties Union. When she isn’t listening to NPR, 
Abigail is probably listening to Broadway musicals or 
getting lost in the produce section at Lucky’s Market.Michael Smith is a 20-year-old UF mechanical 
engineering senior and the managing editor this Fall. He does all the math that Katelyn Newberg won’t do, essentially. He joined Alligator staff in Fall 2015 as a copy editor 
before working as copy desk chief in Spring 2017. He also wrote the comic before it suddenly became a huge conﬂ  ict of interest to do so. Michael spent his entire life in Orlando before attending UF, which frankly explains a lot. When Michael graduates, he intends to make six digits at a high-end engineering ﬁ  rm, and he’ll even let you work on his yacht if you’re nice. When not trying to push Katelyn Newberg’s buttons, Michael can be found making art and being funnier than the people around him. On weekends, Michael likes to make up for lost sleep by entering cryostatic slumber and then using that  time to communicate with the aliens who kidnapped him as a child through his dreams.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsKatelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith 
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORI don’t mean to get sappy or sentimental 
right off the bat, but today marks the first day of my last year of college, so maybe I 
can’t help it. Although it may sound cli-
che, I realize with each new semester how 
much, however slight, I’ve changed from the last, and I try to recognize what I want to do 
differently each time around. Indeed, senior 
year seems to lend that idea even more gravity.
Usually, I set some new-semester resolu-
tions for myself — the typical “Use your agenda more of-ten” and “Seriously, please use your agenda more often” 
— but those go about as well as my New Year’s resolu-
tions do (hint: poorly). As some of you can probably re-late to, I’m not always great at following my own advice. I think most of us are much better at thinking up good 
advice when we believe that advice isn’t for ourselves. So 
I decided to try something different for my new-semester routine: I asked some of my closest friends for their own nuggets of wisdom, the resolutions they’d suggest to other people. Here I give you some of their main takeaways as 
seniors entering their final years as undergraduate stu-
dents.
Go with the flow. You will certainly feel stressed at 
least once during your time in school — none of us could 
think of a single person who hasn’t yet. Some of your aca-
demic and professional work will require more from you, will challenge you, will make you question your life choic-es … That’s expected. Try not to worry so much about every little roadblock; instead, enjoy the ride.
Never settle, whether you’re dealing with romantic re-
lationships, academic opportunities or how people treat you. When the going gets rough, it’s easy to get down on yourself. You are better than your lowest days, and no 
one — including yourself — should treat you less than 
what you’re worth.Another friend agrees: Try to stay confident 
in yourself and your abilities, knowing that you can accomplish great things during your 
college experience. Many of us suffer from 
self-doubt, questioning and overthinking each move we make. Recognize your strengths, and use your talents to help others who may not 
have the same privileges or resources you do.
Lastly, remember that college is a time for 
growth. Use some of what may be your new-
found independence to do more things by yourself. Spend-
ing time alone, while just lounging around or even run-
ning errands and finishing chores, can make you more 
comfortable in your own skin, even if it feels uncomfort-able at first. Growth can stem from places of discomfort, from the friction of leaving home, making new friends and 
learning from new experiences — no matter what stage of 
life you’re in.
In asking my friends for their advice as we enter our 
last years of school, I realized so many of our worries and stresses are shared. Our personal struggles throughout 
college, though unique to each of us in certain ways, all 
involve fundamental themes: the tension between individ-ual identity and the broader college experience, the pres-sure to compete academically while keeping up with so-
cial lives and wellness, getting over the hurdles associated 
with stepping out of one’s comfort zone. These are valid and often difficult obstacles to overcome, no doubt about it. But when I stopped for a moment and asked my friends for advice, I realized how much we all have to offer one 
another with our support, our compassion and our shared 
humanity. We’re going to make this the best year yet.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and law and phi-
losophy senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
Editorial
What good is a 
powerful voice that 
goes unused?
It’s 2017, and we have Nazis running around without care 
and without shame. Please, dear reader, take a moment to absorb the utter absurdity of the sentence you just read.
For those of us who are considered to be privileged, based 
on our race, gender or socio-economic status, the threat of 
white supremacy groups and neo-Nazis might not hit home be-cause when your life isn’t in danger, the reality of the situation is hard to grasp. That being said, it’s nearly impossible to imagine the constant fear and panic many Americans are living in right now. 
It is our belief that if you are fortunate enough to find yourself 
in this respected majority, you have an unspoken duty to put the privilege you have to good use. The fact that this duty is unspo-ken is something we want to change.
It’s a sad but true reality that Americans who are not wealthy 
white males have a harder time being heard. Minority races are disrespected. Women are told to be silent. People in the LG-BTQ+ community are told they’re sinful and invalid. People are silenced, and the voices that might matter most right now aren’t heard. 
This isn’t to say it’s impossible for marginalized groups to be 
heard. This isn’t to say they can’t stand up for their beliefs and speak out against injustices. It is to say, however, that those of 
us with traditionally louder voices need to use them more often.
We all have friends who converse in closed quarters about 
how disappointed they are with how things are going in America. 
They rant about the racism, the unfairness and the corruption. But oftentimes this discontent we hear our friends talk about does not lead to any type of action. What good is a powerful voice if it goes unused?
You might think your voice doesn’t matter. You might think 
you’re just a college student, so what can you do to stop Ku Klux 
Klan riots or get Nazis off the streets? The answer is anything. 
You can do anything. No matter how small and no matter how feeble your attempt may be, the fact that you do something will start a chain reaction, which has the ability to start a movement. 
We hate to say it, but when privileged people speak, America 
listens. We all have a way to do our part. It might be sharing a tweet or posting a Facebook status. It can be as simple as show-ing your support and letting people know that you agree, that you want a change.
Right now, groups like the KKK and neo-Nazis feel empow-
ered. They feel empowered because our president is advertised as a white supremacist. Whether this assumption is accurate, these groups are still using this image to make sense of their unaccept-able actions and thoughts. 
The same people giving power to these groups are the people 
who need to knock them back down. These groups need to see those they respect, powerful white males, telling them what they are doing is wrong. This is the only way they even have a chance 
of listening. 
It can be infuriating to sit back and feel powerless. Unfortu-
nately, this is how most of America feels right now. We want you 
to know, dear reader, that you have power. 
Every one of you are well-educated Americans with bright fu-
tures and impressive pasts. You all have platforms where you can speak about what you believe in. It’s time those who have powerful voices speak up. It’s time those who have the power to help those in danger, do.We get by with a little help from our friends
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgUF President Kent Fuchs’ statement 
Aug. 16 canceling the proposed visit by white supremacist Richard Spen-cer was entirely on the mark. The events in Charlottesville, Virginia, on 
the weekend of Aug. 12 together with ominous social media warnings concerning a coming “battleﬁ  eld” in Gainesville was ample reason to cancel Spencer’s event. The president was also right to emphasize, as he has before, that on a personal level he found Spencer’s rheto-ric “repugnant and counter to everything the university and this nation stands for.” Though safety issues and not Spencer’s speaking re-
cord comprised the reasons for the cancella-
tion, right-wing outlets including Fox News suggested that universities were now using safety as a pretext to limit free speech.
Can the university ban speakers based 
on their rhetoric? Should it? Ostensibly the answer is no, but the issue is surely worth debating in the current political climate, in which others, perhaps Spencer’s own col-
leagues, may seek to speak here in the future. 
UF, it should be said from the outset, does not practice censorship. It hosts hundreds of speakers each year with whom many faculty and students disagree. They have discussed hot-button issues ranging from boycotts against Israel to scientiﬁ  c and economic re-sponses to climate change, and they have not found universal agreement. But just about all speakers adhere to an unspoken arrangement as guests. Whatever their arguments, they adhere to the scholarly practice of empirical study — their conclusions, whatever they might be, have a basis in demonstrable fact. 
They also conduct themselves accordingly, 
engaging in civil debate with their listeners. Even nonscholars on campus who do little more than hold up signage, right-to-life activ-ists, for example, with whom many disagree, adhere to this basic idea.  
I mention this because Spencer and his 
colleagues style themselves as scholars. His “National Policy Institute” carries the trap-
pings of legitimate think-tank scholarship in-
cluding a slick website that includes tabs for research, an online journal which Spencer edits and news of upcoming “academic” con-ferences complete with keynote speakers. But Spencer and his organization are out-and-out frauds. While the mission of our university includes empirical research that expands the boundaries of knowledge for the beneﬁ  t of all 
human beings, Spencer and his institute spin 
fantasies of racial hierarchies together with paranoid conspiracy theories. African-Ameri-cans, according to one National Policy Insti-tute article, are biologically predetermined, as a race, to destructive behavior. Jews, ac-cording to another, are at “the razor’s edge” that is supposedly “cutting into the heart of our nation.” But it's not just what they say; it is the completely counterfeit scholarship on which the statements are based. The articles cite sources that are themselves fraudulent and contain other statements that are sim-ply made up. Spencer wanted to speak here 
because a venue at a real university would 
have given him scholarly bona ﬁ  des. In other words, he sought to use our reputation in or-der to burnish his. 
This, of course, is not all. Spencer and 
his ilk have been condemned for what many rightly call “hate speech.” But a look at his actual speeches, including his exuberant key-note address that followed the 2016 presiden-
tial election (his “Heil Trump” speech), shows 
that it is in fact much worse. Spencer is not just wistfully theorizing. He calls for a racial war to be launched and won by whites, “the children of the sun” he weirdly calls them, who possess superior “blood in our veins.” He is, moreover, despotically insistent. Con-demning his political and racial opponents as benighted, whiny children, he nonetheless de-
clares, “We demand to live in the world that 
we imagine.”  Reminiscent of Adolf Hitler, for whom ethnic struggle was a zero-sum contest of genocidal aggression, he proclaims further: “For us, it is ‘conquer or die.’” At the same time, he attacks his critics as dishonest shills who promote an agenda of white destruction. Meticulous investigative reporting is thus fake news — Spencer prefers the Nazi term Lügen-presse (lying press) — designed to bamboozle all but the supposedly initiated. Universities, meanwhile, are another component of the gi-ant racial swindle, helping to perpetuate what Spencer argues is “a sick and disgusting soci-
ety.” Even without the torch-carrying thugs, 
confederate ﬂ  ags and steel helmets, it is safe to say that Spencer was not coming here in the spirit of academic debate. 
What happens the next time such a char-
acter applies to speak here? Is illegitimate speech still protected speech on a university campus? An untenured professor spouting this rubbish would be ﬁ  red, not owing to a 
rejection of free speech by the university, but 
because the world of unsubstantiated and fal-siﬁ  ed nonsense, even absent violent implica-tions, is contrary to every duty of a serious university. We should not, it seems to me, al-low the Richard Spencers of the world to use us, and we should not be a party to our own debasement, at least without issuing a chal-lenge. When the next of these speakers seeks 
to use our campus as a backdrop to promote 
unsupported mendacities, let him prove his right to do so in court, where his ideas will re-ceive full examination in the light of day. We might lose — but we should continue to make it clear for everyone to see that their mission and ours should never cross paths. 
Norman J.W. Goda is the UF professor of 
Holocaust studies.
Letters to the EditorMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
@OCONNELLCTR
oconnellcenter.uﬂ.edu
250 Gale Lemerand Drive, Gainesville, FL 32611 
Main: 352.392.5500 | Box Ofﬁce: 352.392.1653 | scoc-info@uﬂ.edu
FANS WELCOME
CONCERTS | EVENTS | GATOR ATHLETICS | RECREATION | EMPLOYMENT
Why the next Richard Spencer should not be allowed on UF's campus
By Jessica Giles and 
Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writers
The ﬁ  rst day of school may be eclipsed by 
a phenomenon 38 years in the making. 
A partial solar eclipse will occur from 1:15 
p.m. to 4:11 p.m., with the maximum of 89 
percent visibility occurring at 2:47 p.m., said 
Francisco Reyes, the director of the UF Teach-
ing Observatories.
Peter Barnes, an associate scientist in UF’s 
Department of Astronomy, said while it’s en-ticing to look up at the sky, it’s important to take precautions and look through proper so-lar glasses. If not, it could cause permanent damage to your eyes. 
“The danger is that because something 
special is happening, people are more in-clined to look,” Barnes said. 
Only certiﬁ  ed solar eclipse glasses, tele-
scopes, binoculars or cameras with solar ﬁ  l-ters can be used. Gainesville’s Walmarts have sold out of such glasses. 
Alachua County Public Schools are tak-
ing special precautions to ensure the safety of students during the eclipse. From 1 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m. there will be no outdoor activities, 
and children who are absent or checked out early from school will be excused, according to their website. 
UF and the Gainesville community have 
planned special events to celebrate the solar eclipse. 
UF Campus Teaching Observatory
People can safely view the eclipse from the 
Campus Teaching Observatory, just south of the Reitz Union on Sweetwater Drive, from 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.“We will have at least four telescopes with 
the solar ﬁ  lters so people can come and take a look,” Reyes said.
He said people can borrow glasses for a 
quick look. 
Jade Bittenbender, an 18-year-old UF mi-
crobiology and cell science freshman, said she’s eager to experience the celestial event. 
“I’m looking forward to being a part of a 
big crowd of people that are just interested in the solar eclipse.” Bittenbender said. “Just being in the UF observatory will be extremely memorable for me.” 
Oliver Zavala, an 19-year-old UF electrical 
engineering sophomore said he’s excited to witness the rare occasion. 
“I never imagined I would actually get to 
see (the eclipse) here at UF,” he said. 
The Swamp Restaurant
The Swamp Restaurant, at 1642 W. Uni-
versity Ave., will host a solar eclipse viewing party Monday for Gainesville residents to en-joy the eclipse, according to the restaurant’s Facebook page.
The party will run from noon to 5 p.m., 
and the ﬁ  rst 100 people will receive a pair  of viewing glasses. Party-goers can enjoy food and drink specials all day, and the ﬁ  rst 100 people to order a Blue Moon will take home a commemorative pint glass. 
Sloan Patterson, a second-year UF law stu-
dent, said she didn’t have plans for the solar eclipse until she saw The Swamp’s event on 
Facebook. 
“It gives people an opportunity to come 
together and watch something cool,” she said. 
Deep Spring Farm 
The Deep Spring Farm nature park is invit-ing people to experience the eclipse from 1:15 
p.m. to 4:15 p.m. beside its one-acre spring-fed pond, according to its Facebook page.
The nature park, located at 16419 W. 
County Road 1491, will encourage visitors to relax by the pond in a hammock or participate in yoga at 2 p.m., led by Leela Robinson of Yoga Bodywork. Visitors are being asked to bring their own refreshments and protective 
eyewear.
City College of Gainesville
City College of Gainesville, at 7001 NW 
Fourth Blvd., will host a free viewing party 
in the front parking lot of its campus begin-ning at 2:30 p.m., according to the college’s Facebook page.The college’s library will provide protec-
tive eyewear and a presentation about the eclipse. 
Sholom Park 
On Monday, a women-only Wiccan sister 
circle will be held at 1 p.m. in Sholom Park, located at 7110 SW 80th Ave in Ocala.
The event may include circle sharing, dis-
cussions, walks, dancing or a craft, accord-
ing to the event’s Facebook page. The circle is 
free and open to women only. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
Gainesville prepares for out-of-this-world solar eclipse 
Robert Carroll / Alligator Staff
The direct path of the solar eclipse across the U.S.  MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
12 NW 7 TERR
“right behind  
Enterprise Rent-A-Car”
352-872-5655
Addiction TattoosTattoo &  PiercingGame Day at Blackadder 
Local Craft Beer
Tailgating Growler Fills
Open Early for Home Games
618-A NW 60th ST
(Newberry Rd by McAlister’s)
www.blackadderbrewing.com
352.339.0324
FREE
TUTORING
Always Free
Never Expires
Drop-In & Private 
Tutoring in many subjects• Test Reviews • Video Resources• Study Skills• Learning Strategies
teachingcenter.ufl.edu • 352-392-2010
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
UF won’t allow avowed white 
nationalist Richard Spencer to 
speak on campus.
UF President Kent Fuchs 
announced in an email 
Wednesday that UF would deny 
the National Policy Institute’s request to rent space at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Sept. 12. Neither UF nor any student groups were sponsoring the event.
“The likelihood of violence 
and potential injury — not the 
words or ideas — has caused us 
to take this action,” Fuchs said.
Spencer is the president of 
the National Policy Institute, an organization that lobbies for the “people of European descent in the United States,” according to its website. 
Initially, Fuchs sent out an 
email denouncing Spencer’s views but said UF was bound to the First Amendment. University regulation speciﬁ  es that people or organizations unafﬁ  liated with UF can rent space if they pay, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said. 
After the news broke about 
Spencer’s potential visit, Sikes 
said UF received hundreds of 
angry calls and emails from alumni, students, faculty, staff and others.
Several events were planned 
to protest Spencer, including a mass phone bank with Planned Parenthood, a march through campus and a counter-protest.
When Spencer planned to 
speak at Auburn University in April, ofﬁ  cials cited safety concerns and canceled the event, 
according to CNN. But  a judge said Spencer had the right to 
speak. 
Sikes said 
UF’s case is 
different from Auburn’s  
because since then, the Charlottesville, Virginia, rallies showed that white supremacy speech can cause violence.
“Should they legally challenge 
us, we are prepared to vigorously defend our decision,” Sikes said.
Grifﬁ  n Baker, a UF economics 
and philosophy senior, said that instead of cancelling the event, UF should have postponed it until they found a way to prevent violence. 
Baker said showing Nazis 
their beliefs are wrong is the only way to prove their ideology is “disgusting.” 
“If you stay silent, you’re 
telling them you’re afraid,” the 21-year-old said. “When in reality any person can come up with a rebuttal that will expose 
how idiotic their ideas are.” 
Fuchs’ email explaining the denied request referenced 
a thread on 4chan, a website for anonymous users to submit 
images and comments, that 
expressed a desire for violence surrounding the event. The thread, created Aug. 13, is titled “The next battleﬁ  eld is in Florida.” 
Anonymous users said what 
happened in Charlottesville would be different in Florida 
since it’s a “stand your ground” 
state, which allows people to claim broad self-defense if they shoot or kill someone.
Before Fuchs announced 
the denied request, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias released an email statement Monday saying the department 
would continue monitoring the 
event and planned protests. 
Peggy Macdonald, a UF 
alumna living in Gainesville, said she was surprised to see that Fuchs didn’t allow Spencer to come.
“It makes me think that 
Gainesville is going to be a lot 
safer in Sept. 12,” Macdonald 
said.
Macdonald said she thinks 
Spencer will ﬁ  le a lawsuit against UF citing First Amendment rights, and a judge will order UF to allow him to speak, but she hopes not. 
“Let’s wait for the next shoe 
to drop,” the 45-year-old said.
UF denies Richard Spencer’s 
request to speak on campus
Spencer
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
On Friday night, Ashley Marceus 
felt visible. 
As more than 100 students inter-
locked their arms and swayed from 
side to side in the Reitz Union, called 
swag surﬁ  ng, she knew she found a 
family. 
“We were allowed to really be our-
selves, to have fun together,” she said. “When we swag surfed, it was so sym-bolic, it epitomized us together as a family unit.”
Marceus is one of four lead coor-
dinators for PAACT, a revitalized ori-
entation program for incoming black 
freshmen. The program, which stands for Pledging to Advance Academic Ca-pacity Together, tries to prepare black students for their UF experience, the 20-year-old UF African-American stud-ies and political science junior said. 
Nearly 180 students participated, 
along with 36 peer mentors, Marceus 
said. Students were connected with 
mentors to discuss academic resources, involvement opportunities and the so-cial scene. 
Marceus said participating in 
PAACT helped her fulﬁ  ll her life’s pur-pose — to help the black community. 
“You have to invest in the next gen-
eration and invest in a way that’s going 
to be continuous,” Marceus said. 
She said the program was vital to 
supporting and guiding black fresh-
men.
“Had they not had PAACT, they 
would never probably be in a room again with this many black freshmen,” she said. 
The program was introduced on 
campus in 1998 but disappeared in 2010, said Will Atkins, the executive director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs. He doesn’t know why it ended. 
Atkins participated in PAACT as 
an incoming freshman and said he thought it was the one of best experi-ences he had while at UF. 
After conducting the Black Student 
Affairs Taskforce to survey campus climate, Atkins saw students wanted more connections with peers and fac-ulty. 
“Many students shared they were 
proud to be Gators, but part of the rea-son they were proud to be Gators was because they were surviving the Gator experience,” he said. “And we didn’t 
want that to be the only story about be-
ing a University of Florida student as a black student.”
To ﬁ  x this, Atkins decided to revi-
talize PAACT and started planning in Summer 2016. He hopes the program will help with recruitment and reten-tion of black students.
Faith Stewart-Mason, an 18-year-
old UF theatre freshman, said she liked the chance to talk about shared experi-ences. 
“It just gave us more resources than 
we would at regular preview, because it was speciﬁ  cally for us,” she said. 
Stewart-Mason said being a fresh-
man can be daunting, but the program helps. 
“It gives black students a place to be 
at UF,” she said. Orientation for black 
students creates bondsMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
St. Patrick Catholic Church
500 NE 16th Ave
(352) 372-4641
spc@saintpatricksparish.orgMass Schedule
Saturday: 5:30 p.m. Vigil
Sunday: 8:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.
Weekdays: Mon - Thur 8 a.m.,  
Fri 8:30 a.m.
Holy Days: 8:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m., 7 p.m.
Korean Mass: Saturday 7 p.m. 
Reconciliation: Saturday 4 - 5 p.m.
Where Everyone Is Welcome
St. Patrick Thrift Shop
2010 NW 6th St  •  (352) 373-2206
Mon-Sat 9 a.m – 3 p.m.
Donations greatly appreciated. 
Thank you
SweetBerriesGV
SweetBerriesGV
The best Frozen Custard ice cream around.
Walking distance from campus
505 NW 13th Street
Breakfast 7:30 am Mon. - Fri.
Open Daily at 11 am till 10 pm
Fri. - Sat. till 12 am
Deli Sandwiches, Soups, Salads and more
352Delivery
Takeout: 352-378-4972
LIVE MUSIC WEEKLY
Check Facebook Events page for schedule
SweetBerriesGainesvilleMake a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
August 26, 2017
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
Walkins Welcome
352-379-4686Welcome  
Class of 2021!We want to  
make our  51
st year of  
sevice our  best yet!
Monday - Friday 
8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday
9 a.m. to 2 p.m.By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
 While protests in Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, have caused an upset nationally, 
a Confederate statue in Gainesville was removed Monday with little fanfare from passersby.  
 The statue, nicknamed “Old Joe,” 
stood in front of the Alachua County Ad-ministration Building and has garnered its fair share of attention throughout its 113-year lifespan. Without pomp or cer-emony, construction workers hired by the United Daughters of the Confederacy removed the statue in rainy weather at about 11 a.m. Monday morning.
Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  -
cer Ben Tobias said there was a GPD of-ﬁ  cer present as a precautionary measure, but the removal was carried out peace-fully. “We were all very appreciative of the way people behaved,” he said.
 Julia Burgin, a UF French junior who 
was walking to her car when she saw the statue’s removal, said only a few people stopped to take pictures or acknowledge the statue being brought down.  Burgin said she felt the monument would need 
to be moved at some point.
 “It serves as a reminder that the coun-
try was built on hate and that people are 
still proud of it,” the 20-year-old said.
City commissioners have tried to relo-
cate Old Joe before, according to Alliga-tor archives. Gainesville residents have 
pleaded both for and against its expul-
sion, but now it is being returned to the 
United Daughters of the Confederacy, the 
same group that erected it in 1904.
 Old Joe’s removal comes after a week-
end of violent rallies in Charlottesville, 
which began with a protest that aimed 
to defend another Confederate memorial. 
Gainesville District 3 City Commis-
sioner David Arreola said the removal 
of Old Joe was likely not linked to the 
rallies in Charlottesville, since the deci-
sion to remove it was made more than a 
month ago.
 Now, it is up to the United Daughters of the Confederacy to decide where Old 
Joe will stand. Alachua County Com-missioner Ken Cornell said he heard the 
statue was placed in a private cemetery 
near Rochelle, Florida.
The United Daughters of the Confed-
eracy could not be reached for comment.
 The statue’s former location won’t 
stay empty forever. Arreola said Alachua County has asked the Gainesville Com-
munity Redevelopment Agency — cre-
ators of the Helyx Bridge, Depot Park 
and other construction projects around 
Gainesville — to brainstorm something 
to place in the vacant space.
 Regardless of what will replace it, 
Arreola said he was pleased to see it go.
 “I have never been so happy to drive 
by University (Avenue) and Main (Street) and not see that statue,” he said. “I’m not 
going to miss it one bit.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
 Confederate statue removed downtown
A heritage group relocated the statue
Alligator File Photo
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
ONL Y VIP RESIDENTS HAVE 
ACCESS TO A ROOFTOP POOL.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
When Chris Tunno arrived at his brand 
new apartment, he was met with a puddle 
instead of a pool.
While the UF accounting sophomore 
had hopes of swimming in a pool at The 
Standard at Gainesville, the new apartment 
building appears to have left some of its 
residents frustrated, especially those with-out “VIP” status. 
Tunno, 19, said he expected the build-
ing to be complete, but that hasn’t been 
the case for non-VIP amenities. While the 
VIP residents have been able to enjoy ame-nities like a rooftop pool, study room and pool tables, the non-VIP residents only 
have access to their rooms, he said. In the 
meantime, he said The Standard, located 
on the corner of West University Avenue and Northwest 13th Street, has offered to let its residents use some of the amenities 
at The Retreat at Gainesville, located al-
most two miles away on 13th Street. 
Residents were told the pool is expected 
to take at least six to eight weeks to com-
plete, Tunno said. 
“It just kind of seems like they’re happy 
that they got our money and now it’s like, ‘Whatever,’” he said. 
The lavish ﬂ  oor-to-ceiling windows 
in Tunno’s living room at The Standard 
may look appealing, but the leaky panels soaked the ﬂ  oor of his living room from the 
day he moved in, he said.
“It seems like they kind of rushed to ﬁ  n-
ish everything so there’s problems all over the place,” he said.
The Standard, which is 10-stories tall 
has ﬂ  oor plans ranging from studios to six-bedroom apartments. Each unit comes fur-nished, and monthly rent prices range from $650 to $1,200. The complex is steps from UF’s campus and, upon completion, will boast amenities like a tanning deck, gym, study lounge and rooftop pools, as well as a retail space below containing a Chick-ﬁ  l-A, Target Express.
Katelyn Neller, a 19-year-old UF biology 
sophomore, said although she was hoping to use all of the amenities as soon as she moved in, she understands the complex is a big undertaking.
“The people that work here are trying 
really hard to make it what we expect, and they’re doing the best they can,” she said.
On Thursday, The Standard began mov-
ing in about 500 of its 1,200 residents, prompting Gainesville Police to issue a 
trafﬁ  c advisory. 
The Standard originally intended to 
move all 1,200 residents in Friday, said 
Taylor Fulford, a leasing agent for The Standard. After receiving approval from the 
city to begin moving in residents early, the 
complex sent out an email to its residents 
and allowed the ﬁ  rst 500 who responded to move in Thursday. Fulford said the com-plex didn’t turn away residents Thursday 
who didn’t make it on the ﬁ  rst-500 list, 
however.
Some Gainesville residents were con-
cerned about the trafﬁ  c issues The Stan-
dard’s move-in might cause.
Dawn Peters, a 50-year-old Gainesville 
resident and mother of a UF sophomore, said the goal to move in 1,200 residents in two days seemed farfetched.
“I’m hoping next year they have a better 
plan,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
PRESERVE WATER
TICK.TOCK.
Reduce your showertimeby 2 min.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
With only the noise of cicadas 
chirping in the air, more than 300 
people stood together in silence. 
Holding signs and ﬂ  ickering 
candles, the crowd gathered on 
the steps of Gainesville City Hall 
on Aug. 13 to honor the three lives lost in Charlottesville, Virginia, af-ter white supremacist rallies turned violent on Aug. 12. Police identi-ﬁ  ed the ﬁ  rst victim as Charlottes-ville resident Heather Heyer. 
Virginia State Police arrested 
three men at the rally, one of whom 
is a Gainesville resident. The man, 
James M. O’Brien, appears to have a blog titled “Bacon, Books, & Bul-lets,” of which a recent post is about killing “Leftists.” 
“It really didn’t surprise me,” 
said Evelyn Foxx, the president of 
the Alachua County branch of the 
NAACP. “Because we know that we have them here in Alachua County.”
When Foxx saw the news about 
Charlottesville, she wept. But by coming out to the vigil, she said Gainesville would show it didn’t support hatred. 
Plans for the vigil began with a 
Facebook post. Margaret Hamer, a Gainesville resident and employee of UF Research Studies & Clinical Trials, created a public event at about 7 p.m. and invited about 40 people. By the next morning, about 100 people said they were going and about 300 were “interested.”
“I thought the events that hap-
pened in Charlottesville would re-
ally resonate here and that people 
here would want to show their soli-darity,” Hamer said. 
Members of the Indivisible 
Gainesville chapter, a movement designed to resist President Don-ald Trump’s agenda, such as anti-immigrant and anti-environment sentiments, helped organize it. 
Mayor Lauren Poe said what 
happened in Charlottesville could happen in Gainesville. He encour-aged people to spread love to peo-ple who need it most. 
“We know that one of the fore-
most purveyors of hatred and rac-ism and white supremacy is going to be in our town,” Poe said. 
Richard Spencer, an avowed 
white nationalist intended to speak 
at UF on Sept. 12. UF President 
Kent Fuchs said Spencer would not be allowed to come.
For Seth Smith, a 35-year-old 
Gainesville resident, he saw the vigil as an opportunity to spread love and encourage support. He saw Hamer’s post early on and of-fered to help organize. 
As a veteran of the Army, Smith 
called the incidents in Charlottes-ville domestic terrorism and said he’s sworn to defend against do-mestic threats. 
“I held up my hand and said, ‘I 
am going to serve this country,’” he said. “I feel like I’ve served this country more now as a civilian than when I was in the military.”
During the moment of silence, 
couples rubbed each other’s backs, free hands tilted to let the candle wax drip. Children stood at their parent’s legs, as silent as the adults. Some looked down. Others looked to the sky.
Poe broke the silence, speaking 
into the microphone to encourage love. 
“Do not respond to hatred with 
hatred,” Poe said. “Only light de-feats the dark.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
More than 300 gather to honor lives lost in CharlottesvilleSophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
The Standard at Gainesville residents Mathew Zwijacz, a 22-year-old UF information 
systems and operations management masters student, and Chet Ghioto, a 22-year-old UF economics senior, hang out in the pool with their new lifeguards Matias Ma-tonti, a 20-year-old UF business administration junior and Tyler Silcock, a 23-year-old UF alumnus, in the complex’s VIP pool. The Standard will have two rooftop pools, although one is not yet open.
The Standard opens with many amenities incomplete14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
Make your money life easier through FCU! W e’ve got 
convenient products lik e Free Checking (no fees!) & 
eCredit that are easy to access and manage online . 
Plus, you can tak e your account with you after college 
and k eep your ﬁnances running smoothly , no matter 
where you go .
Visit us 
Visit us online or in your local branch to ﬁnd out how 
Florida Credit Union can help you! 
Keeping up with you
and your ﬁnances. 
4 Gainesville Branches     
Federally insured by the NCU A. 
Alan Alvarez
ABOVE: Students enter and exit the UF Bookstore while making back-
to-school purchases on Sunday afternoon.
LEFT: Martez Ivey, a 22-year-old UF offensive tackle, throws a shirt into 
the crowd inside Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
BACK TO SCHOOL!
Photos by Alan Alvarez 
This year marks the fourth annual Rally in the 
Swamp, a student pep rally held to start the 2017-2018 school year on the right foot. Students were invited to play games and welcomed back to school by Coach Jim McElwain, Athletic Direc-tor Scott Stricklin and UF President Kent Fuchs. Most importantly, attendees were taught the great 
game-day traditions for Saturday football.MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
 
ABOVE: UF cheerleaders high kick and clap while cheering up the crowd at the Rally in the Swamp.
LEFT: Scott Stricklin, 47, the UF athletic director, points to the audience in attendance, saying that without the support of 
the UF Student Body, the Gators’ athletic success wouldn’t be possible. 16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After reportedly misusing school funds, 
seven players, including star receiver Anto-
nio Callaway, have been suspended from the Gators’ 2017 season opener against the Univer-sity of Michigan. 
The Florida Gators announced Sunday the 
players — freshmen Kadeem Telfort and Ven-trell Miller; defensive linemen Richerd Desir-Jones, Keivonnis Davis, Jordan Smith; outside linebacker James Houston IV and wide receiv-er Antonio Callaway — will not participate in 
the Sept. 2 game in Arlington, Texas. 
At a press conference Aug. 14, Coach Jim 
McElwain gave stern but optimistic words. 
“Obviously I am very disappointed,” McEl-
wain said. “At the same time, quick and swift 
action was taken.” 
The players’ punishment includes paying 
back the misused funds, McElwain told report-ers. He also stressed how severe suspension is 
in his eyes.
“There is a real void here,” he said. “They’ve 
gotta understand that there’s consequences.”The suspension comes nearly a year and a 
half after a woman accused Callaway of sexual 
assault in December 2015, launching a Title IX investigation. In August 2016, that investiga-tion was lifted, according to Alligator archives.
The players used three student debit cards, 
meant exclusively for athlete-related items, to buy $1,500 worth of unsanctioned items some-time in Summer B, according to the Gators blog “In All Kinds of Weather.”
The University Athletic Association has not  
released details of the misuse of funds. 
Will Pantages, a University Athletic As-sociation spokesperson said there’s no police 
report related to the incident, and Gainesville 
Police and University Police said they have no record of the fraud. 
Despite his frank words, McElwain said his 
team is pushing past adversity and is fired up for the game. He also told reporters he won’t abandon his players, including Callaway, de-spite their mistakes.
“I’ll never turn my back on anybody, that’s 
not what it’s all about,” McElwain said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Callaway, 6 others suspended from first Gators game in Fall
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A couple faces nine additional 
armed robbery charges out of Marion County after bringing a 10-year-old girl with them.
Marion County Sheriff’s Of-
fice announced in a press release Friday that Cristina Gaud, 30, told police that she and Rodney Snow, 33, were responsible for 18 robberies since January across Levy and Marion counties.  
Gaud told police the robberies 
were a means of sustaining a co-caine addiction, according to the 
release. 
While the exact amount is still 
being determined, MCSO spokes-
person Lauren Lettelier said the couple is ac-
cused of steal-
ing thousands 
of dollars. 
Police de-
partments  from Ocala, Williston,  Chiefland and Belleview are 
also pursuing charges against the couple. 
Police arrested the couple July 
28 after responding to an armed robbery at an Ocala convenience store, according to the release. 
Detectives saw a masked 
Snow exit the store and jump into a car driven by Gaud. They 
drove off briefly before crashing 
in nearby woods, according to the release. 
Snow ran away into the 
woods near the Indigo East hous-ing neighborhood before detec-tives found and surrounded him in the woods. He pulled out his gun and shot himself in the head. 
According to the release, 
Snow survived with help from on-scene paramedics and was 
later brought to a local hospital. 
He is in stable condition and in custody, as of press time.
After arresting Snow and 
Gaud, detectives also found a 10-year-old child in the back seat of their car, according to the re-lease. 
As of press time, Gaud re-
mains at the Marion County Jail and is being held without bond.MCSO: Couple charged with 
nine more armed robberies
Gaud
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Fewer than twenty minutes after an armed 
robbery in a Verizon Wireless store, Gainesville 
Police arrested four suspects Friday morning.
Police said Javaris Levon 
Whitsett, 19, and Stanley Floveus, 15, stepped out of a white sedan parked in 
front of the Verizon store, located at 2612 NW 13th St., at about 10 a.m. with guns out and masks on. The men pointed their guns at 
employees as they walked 
into the business and de
-
manded phones, according 
to an arrest report.
Employees complied 
with the men’s request and 
put the phones in a box, ac -
cording to the report. Dur -
ing the hold-up, an unsus -
pecting customer walked 
in on the scene and was 
held at gunpoint in the back room of the store.
Jessica Nicole Rankin, 
24, walked into the store 
minutes later with a gun and demanded the employ
-
ees open the store’s safe, according to the report. Employees told Rankin they couldn’t open the safe, and Whitsett, Floveus and Rankin left.
A Gainesville officer saw the white sedan 
that was involved in the robbery and two women, Rankin and Shanelle Nicolette Vin
-
cent, 27, in a parking lot of a nearby apart -
ment complex, located at 2801 NW 23rd Blvd., according to the report. When the officer ap
-
proached, Rankin and Vincent ran away in op -
posite directions. Police found Verizon boxes along the path Rankin fled, as well as in the car. 
While police searched near the apartment 
for the suspects, responding officers found two guns matching the descriptions Verizon’s em
-
ployees gave under a large bush, according to the report. Within 20 minutes from the time of the robbery, police arrested Vincent near the car and Whitsett, Floveus and Rankin near the 
Lowe’s located at 2564 W. 13th St. 
The value of the phones taken from the 
store is unknown. 
The car identified from the robbery was 
rented by Rankin in Miami, according to the 
report. All four suspects are from South Flor
-
ida.
Three of the suspects were transported to 
the Alachua County Jail, where they remain, as of press time, in lieu of a bond. Whitsett and 
Vincent each have a $3.6 million bond, and 
Rankin has a $3 million bond. Floveus was taken to the Juvenile Detention Center. 
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: Suspects arrested 
in Verizon robbery
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Associate Vice President and Dean 
of Students Jen Day Shaw has resigned.
UF decided not to renew her appoint-
ment after learning Day Shaw provided 
a positive reference for a former official 
fired from UF last year for using his work 
computer to purchase pornography, wrote UF spokesperson Margot Winick in an email.
Because of UF’s decision, Day Shaw 
resigned in late May.
“The university decided not to renew 
her appointment due to a critical error in judgment when she gave misleading 
and incomplete information in providing 
a positive reference to another univer-sity,” Winick said.
The reference, which Day Shaw 
sent to Florida Polytechnic University in March, was for former UF Title IX coor-dinator Chris Loschiavo.
Loschiavo, who was fired in August 
2016, reported to Day Shaw when he worked at UF.
“Fantastic. Incred-
ibly knowledgeable. Amazing work ethic. Superb supervisor. Strategic. Great col-laboration. My very 
highest endorse-ment!!! Hope you get him,” Day Shaw 
wrote in a March 17 reference email to 
Florida Polytechnic’s vice provost for 
student affairs.
Day Shaw, who served as UF’s dean 
of students since February 2010, knew Loschiavo was fired because of the por-nography before she wrote his reference, Winick said.
Winick said Day Shaw, whose an-
nual salary was $179,275, will be paid 
for unused vacation time.
Day Shaw declined to comment.
Associate Dean of Students Anthony 
DeSantis will now be the point person in the Dean of Students Office, Winick said.Dean of students resignedRankin
Vincent
Whitsett
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Citing student safety concerns, Student 
Government will pay $2 million out of its re-serves to fund a railing repairs project on the Reitz Union’s exterior.
Student Body President Smith Meyers said 
SG made the railings a priority because they posed a “direct safety threat” for people who walk by the Reitz.
Meyers said during the Reitz’s two-and-
half-year $70.7-million renovation project that ended in February 2016, power tools used caused some railings to crack and start falling off. 
In 2015, two 10-foot sections of the guard 
railing fell from the fourth level of the Reitz, Meyers said.
“It was a pretty serious safety hazard for 
students and other people that would be walking around the union on campus, so we needed to get these repaired right away,” Meyers said.
To pay for the $2 million repair work, 
Meyers said SG’s only two options were to 
dip into its reserve funds — leftover money 
the organization saves after each fiscal year — or have the Reitz Union Board of Man-agers take out a loan using student activities and service fees.
He said for the Reitz Board to take out 
a loan, it would have cost an additional $240,000 a year in interest on top of the $2 million. SG would’ve had to compensate in-terest charges by cutting student jobs at the 
Reitz Union or reducing operational hours at 
the Reitz’s printing lab.
“Overall, the whole goal behind this was 
to save students money,” Meyers said.
Of the total cost, $1,889,997 will go to-
ward construction costs, $19,850 will go to-ward engineer costs, $2,600 will pay for spe-cialty consultants, $8,500 will fund a building permit and $79,053 will fund project contin-
gency costs, according to a Student Senate 
bill signed and approved June 12 by Meyers and David Parrot, the vice president for Stu-dent Affairs.
Although some students sympathize with 
SG’s move to ensure student safety with the railings, others see the $2 million as money that could’ve been spent elsewhere.
Rachel Parker, a 20-year-old UF family, 
youth and community sciences junior, said when discussing the railings, she could only think of Library West.
“It’d make more sense to take that $2 mil-
lion and put it towards Library West — so it’d be 24/7 instead of 24/5,” Parker said.
For Jordan Zeldin, 22, he understands 
SG’s calls for safety.
Zeldin, who graduated in May with a 
bachelor’s degree in interdisciplinary bio-medical sciences, said it seems reasonable to focus on keeping the Reitz together if there were serious safety issues.
“Put $2 million in and make sure the 
whole Reitz Union doesn’t collapse,” he said. SG funds $2 million Reitz 
Union railing project
Shaw
MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17
WE TAKE YOUR WORKOUT TO  
THE NEXT LEVEL
MEMBERSH IPS 
AS LOW  AS 
$19.99
A MON TH & 0 DOW N
ATHLETIC TRAINING   
 TRX STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING   
COME SEE ALL THAT WE 
OFFER!
. 24 Hour Access 
.Boxing 
.Cardi ovascu lar T raining 
. Perso nal & Gro up Training 
.Sauna 
.Turf Training.Athletic Performance 
Training 
. Group Fitness Cl asse s 
. Pro Shop 
.Group exercise cl asse s 
 24/7 in our NEW  
On Demand stu dio!JOIN  NOW  AT BAILEYSGYM.COM 
3441 W. Universi ty Ave. 
GAINESVILLE, FL 
Corner of Universi ty & 34th  
352-373-4439 
 VISIT US TOD AY! 
18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
THE EVENTS WERE 
FREE AND OPEN 
TO THE PUBLIC. 
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Two young Gainesville 
landmarks celebrated 
anniversaries Saturday, with 
brews and train rides. 
First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, a brewery and 
tap room located at 1220 SE 
Veitch St., threw a three-
year anniversary party, where patrons sipped beer and listened to live music from noon to midnight Saturday.
The brewery offered more 
than 20 local brews that could be washed down with food from three food trucks, said Christine 
Denny, the president and co-
founder of the brewery. Denny hoped live music from Florida bands and a warm atmosphere would make the party inviting 
to the brewery’s customers. 
“The Gainesville community 
has accepted and embraced 
us,” Denny said. 
Starting as a 15-barrel 
brewery, First Magnitude Brewing Company recently began selling its canned beer in stores outside of Gainesville, according to Alligator archives. The growing company has maintained its connection to 
the community and interest in 
preserving Florida’s springs. The brewery has hosted events to raise funds for nonprofits such as Florida Springs Institute, 
We Are Neutral, PACE Center 
for Girls and Girls’ Place, Inc.
Gainesville resident Brian 
Pope, who has visited First 
Magnitude since it opened, 
brought his wife and son to the party and said the brewery offered more than just good beer — it has a family environment.
“I think they have something 
very special here,” he said. “They run a damn good business.”
Down the road at 200 SE 
Depot Ave., Depot Park hosted its own birthday bash to celebrate its first year.
From 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
between 2,000 and 3,000 people attended the event, which featured food trucks, live music, train rides, scavenger 
hunts, human foosball, aerial 
silk performers and roller skaters, said Cindi Harvey, Depot Park’s manager.
“We’re really in a growing 
stage,” she said. “How can we grow Depot Park into an even more amazing public space?”
Crisscrossed by railroads, 
the water and soil in Depot 
Park used to be contaminated 
by the gas stations, cement plant and other industrial businesses that operated in the area. In 2012, the Gainesville 
Community Redevelopment 
Agency restored the old railroad depot and began building the park, according to the park’s 
website. Children who visit the 
park can monkey around on the playground, cool off in the Blue Grotto water area, explore the conservation area or sprawl out 
on the hill. 
Cada, a 12-year-old 
Gainesville resident, enjoys all 
the opportunities Depot Park 
creates to meet new people. 
“It gets everyone in the 
community together,” she said.
Harvey said the first year has 
provided an opportunity for the park to grow. She said visitors 
can expect movies on the hill to be one of the next additions to the park. The rest, she said, will 
have to be a surprise. 
“There’s so much more to 
come,” she said. “We are just 
now starting to hit our stride.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgDepot Park and First Magnitude host birthday bashes 
Jessica Giles / Alligator
Depot Park visitors watch a performance by Bears and Lions at the park’s 
first-birthday celebration on Saturday. The event treated children with train rides and scavenger hunts.
MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
To the rest of the nation, Florida can seem 
like a state ﬁ  lled with crazy crimes and the ubiq-
uitous “Florida Man.” One commercial aims to change that.
UF created the Gator Good commercial spot, 
titled, “In Defense of Florida,” to show how much UF and Florida contribute to the nation, said Nicole Yucht, the assistant vice president of university communications.
Gator Good is a branding campaign that 
shows UF’s higher purpose, Yucht said.
“There’s a spirit here you don’t feel on other 
campuses,” she said.
On Tuesday, the production team 160over90 
ﬁ  lmed scenes for the 30-second commercial us-ing students as background extras. About 50 stu-dents showed up outside Newell Hall hoping to be included.
Yucht said the ﬁ  lming was promoted on so-
cial media so students could participate. The commercial, which cost about $150,000 to cre-ate, will air Sept. 2 during the halftime of the ﬁ  rst football game.
“We wanted it to be as authentic as possi-ble, and what’s more authentic than actual stu-dents?,” Yucht said.
Sean Bégin, a 20-year-old UF biology and 
chemistry junior, drove 45 minutes to campus to be in the commercial. Bégin said he’s not nor-mally the type to try to get on TV, but he loves UF and wanted to show it.
“(In) high school and junior high I was al-
ways the super intellectual type, and I didn’t ﬁ  t in as much, but now I’m here and everyone is the same way,” he said.
He remembers the moment during his Fall 
sophomore year when he fell in love with UF — he got a 65 percent on a physics exam and his friends helped him bring the grade up. 
“There’s that sense of community and being 
able to ﬁ  t in at UF, and I want to share that with everyone around the country,” he said.
For Emily Tran, a 24-year-old UF pharmacy 
junior, being in the commercial was a way to support a school she’s wanted to attend her 
whole life.
“Everyone here is super passionate about be-
ing a Gator and that’s what I always love about 
this place,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgCommercial aims to show 
UF, Florida’s contributions 
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Ned Comm was thrilled when he found 
out his son Nolan wouldn’t have to pay 
for tuition or fees at UF because of the newest update to the Florida Bright Fu-tures Scholarship Program.
The scholarship program will now pay 
100 percent of tuition and fees for stu-dents who are Florida Academic Scholars, the highest level of Bright Futures, and provide $300 for textbooks.
However, the change will only apply 
for the 2017-2018 school year.
“As a taxpayer and a parent who’s af-
fected by this, I was not happy years ago 
when Bright Futures was reduced from its 
original intent, which was to provide af-fordable education to a wide number of people,” Comm said.
The recent change, which was an-
nounced by UF on July 14, is expected to affect more than 16,000 UF students in the upcoming school year, wrote university spokesperson Steve Orlando in an email.“For the 2017-18 award year (Fall/
Spring) Bright Futures recipients at the Academic Scholar level will receive a total 
award of approximately $6,980,” Orlando 
said. “This represents a $3,890 increase over the original $3,090.”
While some are discouraged about the 
temporary change, Austin Gordon, a UF biology sophomore, said he is excited col-lege is going to be more affordable for him and his family.
“I was really upset to hear that Rick 
Scott vetoed the bill that would have made this increase permanent, but I’m holding out hope that legislators will opt to include the increase in funding in their future budgets,” the 19-year-old said.
Samantha Garcia, a UF computer sci-
ence sophomore, said she would have had to take out a $5,000 loan this year if it weren’t for the Bright Futures changes.
“One hundred percent is a lot, and 
that’s how much it should be, because that’s what you earned from doing well in school, right?” the 18-year-old said. “Not just 80 percent.”Bright Futures to cover 
100 percent of tuition20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
COLLEGE
FRI-YAYS
10
%OFF
EVERYTHING
SHOW US YOUR COLLEGE ID & 
WEAR YOUR SCHOOL COLOR S
EVERY FRIDAY
JULY 21ST-SEPTEMBER 1ST
GOT SCHOOL SPIRIT? SHARE IT!
#LIFEISRIDICULOUSLYAWESOME
Lease It’  NO CREDIT REQUIRED
$40 OR LESS takes it home today!
Visit your local K-MART  for more info. 900 NW 76th Blvd.
Have you been 
diagnosed with 
TMD (TMJ) or 
have experienced 
facial pain for at 
least 3 months?
•In this study, you will 
be randomly assigned to reciev e either study 
drug or placebo to determine if your TMD pain lessens.
•The drug being used 
•The drug being used 
for this study is approv ed by the Food 
and Drug Administration for other health conditions.
•The study requires 
•The study requires 
you to come visit our clinic for 6 visits for over a period of 12-15 
weeks.  Each visit will 
last approximately 2-4 hours.
For more information please 
contact:
352-273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
UF IS PARTNERING WITH 
THE UNIVERSITY OF 
PUERTO RICO-RIO PIEDRAS.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
A new $310,000 grant will allow UF to dig-
itize thousands of pages of old newspapers 
from Florida and Puerto Rico. 
The grant comes from the National En-
dowment for the Humanities and will digi-tize 300,000 pages of historically signiﬁ  cant newspapers.
UF is collaborating with the University of 
Puerto Rico-Rio Piedras. The newspapers will be in both English and Spanish, with issues spanning from 1836 to 1922. 
Only historically signiﬁ  cant papers will be 
digitized, said Patrick Reakes, the associate dean of scholarly resources and services and director of the project. An advisory board will determine what is historically signiﬁ  cant by 
looking at location and time period. Newspa-pers of record, like the Associated Press, are 
strongly considered, said Melissa Jerome, the project manager. 
The papers cover a broad range of topics 
including the Caribbean, the citrus industry, trains, hurricanes, politics, women’s suffrage and World War I, Jerome and Reakes said. 
“Besides all of the news you read about 
big events or historical ﬁ  gures, one of my fa-vorite things is going through the pages and ﬁ  nding oddities, like random odd news that you’d ﬁ  nd,” Jerome said. “Not too long ago, 
we stumbled across an article about ostrich 
racing in Florida.”
Anyone with internet access can retrieve 
the papers, which allows UF to move away 
from aging microﬁ  lm, Reakes said. 
About 211,900 pages of digitized newspa-
pers are already available. 
“(Through newspapers) you get that ﬁ  rst 
blush of history that you don’t get anywhere else,” Reakes said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgUF libraries receive additional  
$310,000 to digitize newspapers
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
CONVOCATION CROWD
Thousands of freshmen gathered in the O’Connell Center on Friday evening for 
their convocation ceremony. One of the highlights was the announcement of the 2017 Gator Growl performers: rapper Snoop Dogg and pop singer Daya. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   21 
LOOKING FORWARD TO A NEW YEAR  
AND A GREATER TOMORROW AT UF.
You’ve chosen an exciting time to call the 
University of Florida home. We unite the brightest minds to create solutions for some of the greatest challenges facing the world. Because the Gator Good isn’t about a single issue or a single person. It’s about the power  of all of us making a difference together.
For the #GATORGOOD
Welcome Home
Gators
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Room available in 2/2.5 Townhouse in 
Beacon Hill. Room has private full bathroom and balcony. Minutes from UF SHANDS and UF campus. 525.00/mo plus shared utilities. Email: yessie22@msn.com.     8-30-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-21-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-21-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-21-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-21-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-21-17-25--11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8-21-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-21-17-25-12
● 2008 HONDA FIT - 5-speed, 88k miles,excellent condition, $3750 / OBO● 2011 MIATA MX5 - 5-speed, only 18k 
miles, super condition $15k. Call 973-634-8821    8-25-12-3-12
2001 Cadillac Deville DTS.\500 miles on new engine, rebuilt front end, new tires., multiple CD player, spare parts. Beauty of a ride. $ 3200.     8-30-17-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-21-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. 
W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. Pool, clubhouse. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-14-17-2-2
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT OR ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   23 
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-21-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-21-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-
10-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       8-23-17-4-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
After 2 pm weekdays, weekends if free. for 3 kids age 8-14. To help pick kids up from school and drive to activities (must have car), light help around the house.$12/hr, experi -
ence/references required.Email to rosenson@ufl.edu.     8-23-17-3-14
Professional parents looking for a sitter for a 3 month-old, select afternoons, 15 hr/wk. Must have prior experience with infants, and reliable transportation. Pay is $12/hr. Please call 352-371-3418.     8-30-17-5-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
TEXTBOOK DISCOUNT DAY
ALL NEW AND USED TEXTBOOKS WILL BE 7% OFF
Monday
August 14th
Levin College of Law BookstoreMondayAugust 21st
UF Bookstore in the Reitz UnionHealth Science Center Bookstore
**The Price Match Guarantee: If you find an identical in-stock textbooks for rent or purchase priced lower elsewhere we’ll Match it at the register! Excludes rentals, digital titles and on-line purchases.
352-505-5304
shoresanhosp.com/boarding.html
one convenient location  •  3717 NW 13th Street Providing the best care in Gainesville for your best friend since 1974. 
352-372-8387
shoresanhosp.com
Your pet’s vacation destination! You do not have to stress about your furry family member while traveling. Prestige Pet Resort is their home away from home!– Deluxe Boarding Themed Suites– Half Pint Harbor for Small Dogs– Cat Cove with Spacious Condos– Doggy Day Care– Spa Grooming Services with 
Hydrosurge Massage Baths
PET RESORT     & SPA13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted24   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
Country Inns and Suites by Carlson of 
Gainesville, Florida is currently seeking New Hires!
Breakfast Attendant- This position is re-
sponsible for the setting up and closing of 
breakfast area, inventory and/or ordering of breakfast food and supplies, maintaining a clean and welcoming breakfast area, assist-ing guests and other staff to provide a posi-tive experience for all.
Assistant Head Housekeeper-  To allocate 
daily cleaning tasks and issue items such as 
keys, linen and cleaning materials to house -
keepers. 
Front Desk/ Night Auditor- It is very impor-
tant that the individual possesses a strong outgoing personality, with an ability to pay close attention to details. The successful candidate should be able to work well with others, and maintain responsibility. 
Well Qualified Applicants:●Previous experience is preferred.
●Knowledge of Opera Property Management System●Strong communication skills written and verbal are essential (Bi-lingual +)●Experience working in a multi-tasking, fast paced environment●Demonstrated 5-star customer service skills
●Ability to work all shifts, including week-ends, evenings and holiday
Please apply in person at the
hotel direct at the address below:
Country Inn & Suites
4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, FL 32608
352-375-1550
8-25-17-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
"The Spiritual Purpose of Dreams" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., Aug. 20     
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
Everyone welcome
8-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-21-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
1.  Set a trap for
1.  Every time5.  ____ bread
2.  Type of nest6.  ____ Hayes
3.  Defeat7.  Got out
4.  Spread outSAHMUB
WYALSAHAWET
SCAAI
HEVIEBE
BECKSTAKELDEA
PCEDSAANSWERS: 1A-Ambush  5A-Wheat  6A-Isaac  7A-Leaked
1D-Always  2D-Beehive  3D-Setback  4D-Spaced  B-Blue Whale8-22-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: A ____ ____ can grow to a 
length of about 100 feet.
BONUSACROSS
1 DEA agent
5 Traveller in
London’s Tube
9 With 15-Across,
Apple media
player since 2005
13 Over the hill
14 Colorado-based
brewery
15 See 9-Across16 *Feature of gated
communityentrances
18 Sprouted
19 Like checks,
when splitting the
tab
20 Dungeness and
Alaskan king
21 *GEICO product24 “I got a great
break!”
27 ID card picture
28 Adam’s grandson29 “... disguised 
as Clark Kent, 
mild-__ reporter”
32 Hoopla33 *Plaything for a
backyard
swimming spot
36 Fifth month
37 Warns of39 Batman’s hideout40 Donna Summer’s
music
41 Spun, as a baton44 *Source of
showroomshock?
47 The Stones’ “__
Tonk Women”
48 Subscribers’
continuations
52 And others, in
Lat.
53 Abundant farm
yield ... and what
the first words ofthe answers tostarred cluescomprise?
55 Past the deadline56 Foreign relief org.
created by JFK
57 Pac-12 sch.58 Hotfooted it59 Curve in a road60 Easier said __
doneDOWN
1 Badgers
2 Fever with chills
3 Garner from the
fields
4 Music media
holders
5 Infant foot
warmer
6 City where Joan
of Arc died
7 Tax form org.
8 “The Waste
Land” poet’s
monogram
9 Thankless sort
10 Like “X-Files”
cases
11 Year before AD
yrs. started
12 Wield a divining
rod
14 Captivate17 Low, sturdy cart20 Close friend22 Quarrel
23 “Sorry, that’s not
happening”
24 Jump
25 “Go back”
computer
command26 Match, as
clothing colors
29 Chicago Fire’s org.
30 Roof projection
31 Colored like
Easter eggs
33 Bothersome34 Fairy tale start
35 Skunk’s defense
38 Got giggles out of
39 Close-cropped
hair style41 Apprehensive
42 __ and dined
43 Cake decorator
44 Bookcase unit45 Sum
46 Image maker,
briefly
49 Curved foot part
50 1970 Kinks hit
51 Stretch across
53 Fella
54 Employ
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/21/1708/21/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, August 21, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Arizona site of
Sun Devil
Stadium
6 “I beg your
pardon?”
10 College sr.’s test13 Prettify14 Post-bath wrap15 Window box dirt16 “Baywatch” star19 “I couldn’t agree
more!”
20 Dined21 Coastal raptor22 Pull-out money
holder
26 Entry in a
ledger’s pluscolumn
29 Horse opera
setting
32 On the run33 “La La Land”
Best ActressStone
35 Flat-bottomed
boat
36 College URL
ender
37 Frantic rush, and
what’s literallyfound in each setof puzzle circles
40 Lowest sudoku
number
41 Swindles43 Funny folks44 How pastrami is
often ordered
46 Secondary
wager
48 Silently greet49 Poker table
experts
53 Bit of fish tank
growth
54 Mined metal55 Emerged from
slumber
59 Like football
linemen
63 Motown genre64 Website with
filmographies
65 Made more
tolerable
66 Total up67 Civil rights activist
Parks
68 Unemotional
DOWN
1 “I did it!”2 Wax-coated
Dutch cheese
3 Relocate
4 Charles, William
and Harry
5 Wrap up6 Extreme anger7 Swindled,
slangily
8 Core muscles9 Casual shirt
10 Publicly state
one’s views
11 Replete (with)12 Pixie15 Mole-like
mammals
17 Suffers from18 More than risqué23 “Up and __!”:
“Rise and shine!”
24 Oblong tomatoes25 “Sorry to say ... ”26 Smart __:
wiseguys
27 “Same here!”28 Big name in
music streaming
30 “Mortal Kombat”
agent __ Blade
31 Short cyber post33 Touches up, as
text
34 Summer hrs. in
Billings38 Wonderstruck
39 Hit the horn42 Steven of “The
Patriot” (1998)
45 “That’s easy!”47 Actor Pitt50 Parka parts51 Vacation spot
near Curaçao
52 Seminary subj.
53 Former Yankee
who was the
youngest MLBplayer to hit 600home runs
56 Guesstimate
words
57 “Peachy-__!”58 Whirling
current
59 Youth org. with
merit badges
60 Title of respect61 Med. care
provider
62 __ Moines
By C.C. Burnikel(c)2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/15/1708/15/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 15, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day .Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
In case you missed it: Coach Kevin O'Sullivan  guided the 
Gators baseball team to their ﬁ  rst national championship over the summer. Read the recap, pg. 26. Gators swimmer wins gold
Florida sophomore Maxime Rooney and his relay team took ﬁ  rst place Sun-
day in the men’s 4x100 freestyle relay at the World University Games in T aiwan.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Feleipe Franks isn’t afraid to admit it.
His ﬁ  rst year in Gainesville as a member of UF’s football 
team was far from a cake walk. It was the complete opposite of a cake walk, in fact.
The 6-foot-5 quarterback from Crawfordville, Florida, ar-
rived on campus with the Gators in January 2016 as an early enrollee out of Wakulla High School.
His ﬁ  rst performance in front of UF fans couldn’t have 
gone much worse: a 5-for-11 passing day with one touch-down and three interceptions at the team’s spring game on April 8, 2016.
Franks then spent the entire regular season on the side-
lines, watching Luke Del Rio and Austin Appleby lead Florida to an SEC East title while he struggled to adjust to the college game and earn conﬁ  dence from his teammates.
“Last year, it was troubling for me to … break it down 
and keep it simple for myself,” Franks said. “When you don’t know what you’re doing, the offense doesn’t know if you’re going to make the right reads, stuff like that.”
But now, after a full year learning under head coach Jim 
McElwain and offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier, the redshirt freshman says the difference between last season and this season is “night and day.”
“They gave me a lot of steps to get to where I wanted to 
be,” he said. “Every day just getting a little extra ﬁ  lm work, By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Malik Zaire’s transfer to Florida was the surprise of the 
summer. 
It almost seemed too good to be true. Frustrated fans 
have been hungry for a quality quarterback since Tim 
Tebow left campus. And Zaire, a dual threat coming from 
one of the nation's most esteemed college football pro-
grams, looks like he could be the answer.
After going 3-0 as a starter at the University of Notre 
Dame, Zaire was instantly a top name in the Gators’ search for starter. 
Zaire spent a lot of his time with the Fighting Irish locked 
out of the starting slot because of injuries and other QB competition — like when he lost the starting job last year to 
DeShone Kizer, who has a chance to become the Cleveland 
Browns' starter under center as a rookie. 
Now Zaire’s in Gainesville. And what’s been his biggest challenge since he got here?
“Adjusting to that heat,” he said. He was talking about 
the Florida weather, but he might as well have been talking 
about the competition he’s getting from Feleipe Franks and Luke Del Rio for the starting role. 
Despite all that, Zaire’s still got conﬁ  dence. More impor-
tantly, he has the experience to justify it. 
When Franks was in high school, Zaire was winning 
MVP honors in the 2014 Music City Bowl for Notre Dame  By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio probably isn’t the favorite. 
He’s not Florida’s tallest quarterback. He’s not the most 
athletic. He doesn’t have the strongest arm. 
But the redshirt junior is relying on a different attribute to 
win the Gators’ quarterback competition this season.
“Consistency,” Del Rio said Thursday. “I wouldn’t have 
come back if I didn’t want to play.”
In a similar situation last year, competing against gradu-
ate transfer Austin Appleby, Del Rio played well enough in camp to convince coach Jim McElwain to award him the starting spot.
What followed was an overwhelmingly average cam-
paign under center: six games, eight touchdowns, eight in-terceptions and a 56.7-percent completion percentage.
But instead of focusing on physical measurements and 
passing statistics, Del Rio and McElwain often point to the Gators’ 5-1 record under Del Rio last season.
“I’ve never been 6-foot-6,” said Del Rio, who is 6-foot-1. 
“I found that quarterbacking is a lot more than just what you look like, how hard you can throw, how far you can 
throw.”
Del Rio is the only quarterback on Florida’s roster who 
has played in a game for UF and in McElwain’s offense. He 
also feels conﬁ  dent entering his third year at Florida as the oldest member of the three-man quarterback race and pos-sibly the one with the most reasonable argument on paper.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsAnyone who listens to Jim McElwain answer one question knows he is not a straightforward man. He rambles. He swerves. He 
changes topics like a ﬁ  gure skater changing direction. For example, here’s what he said when asked about how challenging the team’s quarterback competition must be given that two weeks from the team’s season opener, it’s still a three-man race: 
“Well, here’s what I would say,” 
he said. “I’ve been really kind of 
pleased with how the guys that 
were here kind of accepted the chal-
lenge when Malik (Zaire) came in … You’re actually competing against yourself. Your ability to go out and perform. From a mindset standpoint, that to me is what it’s all about. You’ve got to throw all the exterior stuff away in whatever it is you’re doing and focus on what you do ... I see our kids in that quarterback 
room kind of ﬁ  guring that out.”
Non-speciﬁ  c. Non-helpful. Clas-
sic McElwain. 
But when it comes to the ques-
tion of who UF’s quarterback should 
be, answers like that are pretty much the best evidence anyone outside the team has as to who should be the starter. In other words, unless you’re ﬂ  ying a drone over the practice facil-ity or watching from atop the trees 
across the street, fans and reporters 
alike are at the mercy of McElwain’s words. And when it comes to being informed, that’s not a great place to be. 
 Think you know who UF’s starting quarterback should be? Think again.  
SEE FRANKS,  PAGE 27 SEE DEL RIO,  PAGE 27 SEE ZAIRE,  PAGE 27
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebauriSweet and Bauer / OpinionThree-man race: Franks, Del Rio, Zaire ﬁ  ght for starting job
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 27THE GUNSLINGER THE VETERAN THE WILD CARD26   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  
more rewards.
Everything we do at ALDI is about doing more, offering more 
and delivering  more. Our success comes from asking a lot from 
our staff, and giving  a lot back in return. 
District Managers start out with a salary of $80K, a fully‑expensed Audi A3 and  a 50+ week onboarding program.  We’re proud 
that our wages, benefits and training are among the best in  the business. ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to 
generous compensation, and our District Manager position epitomizes this  philosophy. 
Come to our recruiting events, and hear for yourself how  ALDI 
relies on extraordinary people to do extraordinary things.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®
2017
 2100 SW 34th ST
Call (352) 336-6303
facebook.com/aquatropicsgainesvillefish
Aquatropics
Aquatropics
Aquatropics
FIND THE perfect pet  
for your dorm room or apartment!
for 10% off saltwater fish purchaseor 20% off freshwater fish purchase
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
It took Florida’s baseball team 
103 years to ﬁ  nally win its ﬁ  rst-ever 
national championship.
But for coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
and company, it was better late than never.
The Gators notched their ﬁ  rst 
NCAA title in program history this summer after sweeping LSU in the College World Series ﬁ  nals. UF capped off the best-of-three series on June 27 with a 6-1 victory over 
the Tigers at TD Ameritrade Park in 
Omaha, Nebraska.
Right-hander Tyler Dyson made 
his second career start for Florida 
in the championship-clinching contest, allowing one run and three 
hits over six innings pitched, while second baseman Deacon Liput led the offense with two hits and three 
RBIs.
UF’s run to a national title began 
this spring following a successful 
regular season that saw the team win 40 of 55 games, as well as a 
share of the SEC regular season 
championship with LSU.
Florida then earned the No. 
3 overall seed in the NCAA 
Tournament and survived 
elimination games in its regional against Bethune-Cookman and super regional against Wake Forest to punch its ticket to Omaha.
The team was carried the 
majority of the year by its pitching staff, which featured eventual ﬁ  rst-round pick Alex Faedo, sophomore starters Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar and sophomore closer 
Michael Byrne. Faedo led the 
NCAA in strikeouts in 2017 with 157 while Byrne broke the Gators single-season saves record with 19.
Looking ahead to 2018, UF 
returns Singer, Kowar, Byrne, Dyson, Liput, right-hander Garrett Milchin, catcher JJ Schwarz, outﬁ  elder Nelson Maldonado and 
third baseman Jonathan India.
“I think Florida baseball is in 
great shape right now,” O’Sullivan 
said in a release after winning the College World Series. “I do 
think next year we will have more 
depth.”  Part I: Gators baseball team wins ﬁ  rst national championship
The Associated Press
Florida’s baseball team ended its 103-year national title drought 
this summer after sweeping the LSU Tigers in the CWS ﬁ  nals.
SUMMER RECAPMONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017   ALLIGATOR   27
Pick-up your
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
Granted, reporters like myself have 
more access than most. I’ve attended 
every open practice this fall, and I can tell you that it hasn’t told me much. Every day, Malik Zaire, Feleipe Franks and Luke Del Rio rotate reps with the ﬁ  rst team, and even though McElwain has to choose one of them, I can tell 
you none of them look much better or 
much worse than the others.
Yet the very fact that Luke Del Rio is 
in the conversation is enough to make some fans beyond animated. To prove that, I typed his name into Twitter right before typing this sentence. The ﬁ  rst tweet read: “Luke Del Rio, your dad raised a b***h. You’ve never thrown 
the ball 80 yards. You are delusional if 
you believe this.”
A couple tweets down was this: “I 
like Luke Del Rio a lot, I really do. He’s a good kid and very easy to root for in life. But boy, he’s really gotta quit try-ing the fans.”
Both were in reference to Del Rio’s 
frustration at fans saying he has a 
“noodle arm.” One fan went as far a photoshopping a noodle in place of Del 
Rio’s arm on a throw. 
“I found it pretty ridiculous that 
fans are saying I had a noodle arm when I was throwing the ball 80 yards in the ﬁ  rst game,” Del Rio said of the 
comments. “So they have the memory 
of a goldﬁ  sh I guess.”
The fact that Del Rio had to resort 
to comparing fans to goldﬁ  sh is appro-priate not just because of memory, but because of knowledge. Goldﬁ  sh are not knowledgeable. They paddle around a bowl aimlessly, eat when they’re fed and die, with little thought at all aside 
from wondering about that next meal. 
In a similar way, fans spend their 
fandom wondering about signiﬁ  cantly 
more trivial questions, for example, who will be UF’s starting quarterback. But then they diverge from the goldﬁ  sh and speculate, without any knowledge aside from hearsay and conjecture, as to who the starter should be — some-
thing they know nothing about. And if 
McElwain disagrees, well, f*** him.
  Read the rest of Ethan's column at 
alligator.org/sports, and look out for his upcoming column next Tuesday.By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
On a scorching Sunday afternoon, 
the No. 7 UF soccer team came out nearly as hot as the weather did in a 5-0 shutout against Troy at James G. Pressly Stadium.
In its ﬁ  rst home game of the regu-
lar season, Florida’s defense smoth-ered the Trojan attack, holding Troy to just one shot attempt — a hapless ball that rolled wide right of goal. 
“I gave credit to our defense at 
half,” Gators coach Becky Burleigh said. “Whenever [Troy] did mount any sort of attack, our back line did 
a really good job of handling that 
well.”
All ﬁ  ve goals came from different 
players, and four scored their ﬁ  rst goals as Gators.
Freshman forward Deanne Rose 
netted her ﬁ  rst collegiate goal 10 minutes in after receiving a lead-ing pass from sophomore defender 
Sammie Betters. Rose, a Canadian 
national team member and Olym-pic bronze medalist, shrugged off a defender in the box, then chipped the ball over the goalie as she ap-proached Rose to challenge the shot.“It feels good,” Rose said. “I had 
a lot of help from my team, obvious-ly. It wasn’t just me. But it just feels good to get my ﬁ  rst goal as a Gator.”
Senior defender Gabby Seiler 
notched her second goal of the sea-son off of a corner kick in the 28th 
minute that fell to the far post.
“Be a leader by example at all 
times,” said Seiler, who was named 
a team captain Friday before scoring against Florida Atlantic. “It’s kind of what I do every single day. That’s kind of my mentality every time I step on the ﬁ  eld.”
Brittney Bennett, a junior mid-
ﬁ  elder, notched the third Gator goal of the day in the 36th minute. She hit a slicing drive off a failed clearance that made its way into the top right corner of the net from 20 yards out.
The goal from Bennett, a Gray-
son, Georgia, native, was her ﬁ  rst as a Gator, as well, and also came on her 20th birthday.
“It just kind of ricocheted off a 
couple people and bounced out,” Bennett said about the setup. “I just one-touched it because no one was there. I didn’t want to take an extra touch.”
As much as there was to cel-
ebrate, the game also marked an oc-casion for remembrance.
UF players wore patches reading 
“R & N” on their right sleeves during the match to honor Ron and Nancy Burleigh, coach Burleigh’s parents. They each passed away earlier this year. 
“I want to give a shout out to the 
whole team for that,” Burleigh said. “That was really touching and very unexpected for sure and something that my family will never forget.”
Seiler was part of the seniors’ ef-
forts to get the patch approved by the SEC.
“We were really excited to show 
her because obviously her parents meant everything to her,” Seiler said. “We were her support system through all of that, and we wanted to do everything we could to be there for her.”
Florida’s next game is Friday 
against No. 2 Stanford at home. 
“That’s what we want, is all these 
experiences to occur in this noncon-ference part of the season to get us prepared for the conference, as well as the postseason,” Burleigh said. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
 Red hot: Five Gators score in home opener vs. TrojansFLORIDA 5, TROY 0
Alligator File Photo
Coach Becky Burleigh credited her defense for locking out the Trojans 
offense Sunday in  UF's win over Troy at James G. Pressly Stadium.
working on technique, work-
ing on chemistry with receiv-ers, running backs and the line, things like that.”
Franks' improvement from 
year one to year two was evident in this spring’s Orange and Blue Debut. The right-hander started with the ﬁ  rst-team offense and completed 8-of-14 passes for 119 yards and one touchdown.
He was decreed “ahead” of 
the rest of the quarterback com-
petition by coach Jim McElwain 
following the performance, but 
with Malik Zaire’s transfer to 
Florida and Del Rio’s recovery from shoulder surgery, the race for the starting job has once again become neck-and-neck.
“All of us are really good 
quarterbacks and we’re all do-ing our best with the team,” 
Franks said. “It’s going good so 
far, and I think it’s going to con-tinue to go well.”ZAIRE,  from pg. 25 DEL RIO,  from pg. 25 FRANKS,  from pg. 25
For McElwain and his coach-
ing staff, Del Rio is the safe 
choice. He is the most familiar 
one. He is the only quarterback 
who allows coaches to know exactly what to expect. But he’s also the choice that would most likely frustrate an expectation-riddled fan base that is grow-ing impatient of losing to Ala-bama in the SEC Championship 
Game, as UF has done the last 
two seasons. 
Del Rio thinks fans have no 
reason to worry.
“I found it pretty ridiculous 
that fans are saying I had a noo-dle arm when I was throwing the ball 80 yards in the ﬁ  rst game,” said Del Rio, in reference to his 
deep throw to receiver Antonio 
Callaway on the ﬁ  rst play of last year’s season-opening win against Massachusetts.
“I’ve never had a ridiculous 
arm … but I’ve been able to make every throw on time.”  with a 31-28 victory against 
LSU. 
“I feel like I can do my job 
better than anybody else,” Zaire said Friday, undeterred by the 
pressure Franks and Del Rio try-
ing to beat him out.
“It’s nothing new for me,” 
he said. “I’m always compet-
ing with somebody. I feel like 
that’s been my theme since I’ve been in college, but I’m trying to change that.”
This will be his chance, and 
he’s got his sights set high. 
“My focus is on beating ev-
erybody,” Zaire said. “It’s not 
just the guys that are competing 
for this job, but it’s the guys in the whole SEC, it’s the guys in the whole country.”
He mentioned winning a na-
tional championship four times on Friday. 
“That’s what I came here to 
do.”COLUMN,  from pg. 2528   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 2017
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$3.99   
½ Pound Burger
$5 All  
Craft Pints7 pm – 12am
2-4-1 Appetizers 
2-4-1 Classic 
Daiquiri’s  
(Fresh not Frozen)
Trivia 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$5 Flat Breads 
(Margherita or Buffalo Chicken)
$2 Premium 
Wells
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ 
Cheese
(Buffalo Chicken or  
BBQ Pulled Pork)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail 
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseHAPPY HOUR
ALL DAY ON SUNDAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Premium 
Wells
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 Stoli Mules
$4 Edamame 
$4 Swamp 
Head & First 
Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
BURGER NIGHT2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
BLOW-OUT
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm