We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 77 MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
UF women’s hoops falters at home
The Gators got dominated in the second quar-
ter, pg. 13
Vigil held for 16-year-old Buchholz High student
She committed suicide Tuesday , pg. 5
UF football player punched in head
The incident happened at Keys Residential Complex, pg. 9CNN editor to head UF’s INC
She will be paid $120,000 a year, pg. 8
 Courtesy to the Alligator
Roselle Derequito poses by UF’s Bull Gator for her graduation photoshoot. Roselle graduated in 2014 with a bachelor’s degree in Health Education. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When Roselle Derequito worked 
for the American Red Cross in 
Gainesville, she was the ﬁ  rst one to answer a 3 a.m. call and rush to pro-vide assistance. 
When she saw that a sister in her 
sorority, Alpha Kappa Delta Phi, had trouble learning a dance routine, Roselle worked one-on-one with her for two hours.
And when Roselle, barely able 
to speak, gathered up the strength to give a message from her hospital bed, it was to her nurses.
“Thank you for taking care of 
me,” Roselle told them.
After battling neurological issues 
for almost two years, the 25-year-old UF alumna died Wednesday at Florida Hospital Orlando. Prior to an infection that landed her in the inten-sive care unit Dec. 3, her parents had high hopes for her recovery. “We lost our child,” said Rosalee 
Derequito, Roselle’s mother. “But I released an angel.”
•   •   •
Before knowing she wanted to 
study medicine, Roselle was already helping others.
After graduating from UF with a 
bachelor’s degree in health education 
in Fall 2014, she joined the American 
Red Cross, doing community out-reach and disaster assistance. 
Though calls came in at two, 
three, or even four in the morning, Roselle never complained, said Lien Dang, a sorority sister and American Red Cross coworker. She made sure to get someone to help as quickly as 
she could. 
She also made sure to take care 
of the people working with her, Dang 
said. When Dang became frustrated, Roselle would tell her not to lose her-self in the job and focus on the good  ‘In our hearts’: 
Gainesville, UF re-
member UF alumna
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Ila Perry chose a good spot to 
stop.
On Sunday morning, as the 
Gainesville resident was in labor, 
her husband pulled into the Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce park-
ing lot hoping for a miracle. He had been on the line with a 
911 operator, and en route to the 
hospital when the operator told 
him to pull over.
With the help of the operator 
— and two Alachua County Sher-iff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies — 29-year-old Mrs. Perry delivered a baby in the passenger seat of their Chevrolet Suburban.  Her husband, Rob-ert Perry, and the deputies tied the baby’s umbillical cord with a 
shoestring.
Chris Privette, who along with 
Sam Caouette helped deliver the 
baby, said despite his training, he never expected to deliver a child.
“It happened quick enough, I 
didn’t have time to be nervous,” he said. The ambulance arrived min-
utes later and took the woman 
and her healthy son, John William 
Perry, to the hospital.
Mrs. Perry said she was in dis-
belief when she realized her son would be born in a parking lot.
“He wanted to be born then, so 
he was born then,” she said.
In the chaos, Mrs. Perry forgot to bring a stuffed animal she had already picked out for John, but 
when the deputies visited them in 
the hospital they brought a stuffed lion.
“He still got his birthday stuffed 
animal like all my other children,” she said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  ACSO deputies help deliver baby in office parking lotStaff Report
As UF alumnus Mike Biana prepared to board a 
ﬂ  ight at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on Friday afternoon, his phone was ﬂ  ooded with panicked texts and messages.
One terminal down, a ﬁ  ve-minute walk, a gun-
man had opened ﬁ  re at the baggage claim area of the airport’s Terminal 2. Five people were shot and six others were wounded.
“We thought we were all going to die,” 26-year-
old Biana said.
For Biana, a Fort Lauderdale, Florida, native who 
graduated from UF in 2013, the ﬂ  ight was going to be a rare chance to see his cousin. But for a handful of Delta Airlines or Air Canada passengers who had just arrived in South Florida, their trip was cut short by gunﬁ  re.•   •   •
At about 12:55 p.m., Esteban Santiago, 26, of An-
chorage, Alaska, pulled a gun from his luggage and opened ﬁ  re in the baggage claim area at the airport, according to the Associated Press.
Santiago, an Iraq war veteran, then threw his gun 
down and lied down. He was arrested by law enforce-ment.
The motive is under investigation, according to AP. 
Santiago is charged with weapons violations and an act of violence at an international airport resulting in death. He could face the death penalty. 
In November, Santiago had walked into an FBI ﬁ  eld 
ofﬁ  ce in Alaska, where he was serving as a National Guard soldier, and claimed the U.S. government was 
controlling his mind and forcing him to watch Islamic UF alumnus hid in terminal 
during Ft. Lauderdale shooting
The Associated Press
Law enforcement personnel shield civilians outside a garage area at the Fort Lauderdale–Hollywood 
International Airport on Friday, Jan. 6, 2017, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. A gunman opened ﬁ  re in the baggage claim area at the airport on Friday, killing several people and wounding others before being taken into custody in an attack that sent panicked passengers running out of the terminal and onto the tarmac, authorities said.
SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to the University Gallery 
Gainesville Cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and 
culture festival, from January 
to March. The festival features more than 20 events. Cuban muralists, dancers, musicians, authors and academics are among those who are featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & 
Cuban Film Poster Collection” 
from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The University Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, the curator of the Popular Culture Collections at Smathers Library, on Jan. 13 
from noon to 1 p.m. All events 
are free and open to the pub-lic. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Back To School Poster Sale at 
the Reitz Union outdoor ta-bling area
The Reitz Union is hosting a 
Back To School Poster Sale. Starting today until Friday, from  9 a.m. to 6 p.m., there will be a table outside the Reitz Union featuring posters. Most posters are priced between $5 and $9. 
Learn basic Arabic at the 
Headquarters Library start-ing in JanuaryArabic for Adults will be taught at the Alachua County Library District starting Wednesday. An experienced teacher who is a native speaker will conduct classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m 
Wednesdays. Registration is 
not required. These classes of-fer a chance to learn the basics. For more information about li-brary programs, visit aclib.us/events or contact Nickie Kortus at 352-334- 3909 or nkortus@aclib.us.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Visiting Artist Lecture Series with Arthur Ou on Jan. 12The UF School of Art + Art History is presenting artist Arthur Ou as part of the Spring 2017. Visiting Artist Lecture Series on Jan. 12 at 6 p.m. in 
the Music Building, Room 101. 
Ou works in photography, painting, sculpture and instal-lation. Ou will give a lecture about contemporary art and culture as it relates to national and international trends. For more information about the Visiting Artist Lecture Series, visit arts.ufl.edu.
‘Wicked Plants’ exhibit closes 
Jan. 15The Florida Museum of Natural History’s “Wicked Plants: The Exhibit” closes Jan. 15. Museum members and UF stu-dents with a valid Gator 1 Card can receive free admission. For 
more information, visit flmnh.
ufl.edu/wickedplants.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21 Collectors from across the re-gion will share their personal treasures with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors dur-
ing the 38th Collectors Day on 
Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the museum’s longest-running public pro-gram, allowing guests to inter-act with collectors and learn about the context and histori-cal significance of their collec-tions. Attendees will be able to 
view classic cars, stereoscopes, 
Pokemon, Legos and more. The registration deadline to display collections is Jan. 14. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/col-lectors-day-registration or call 352-273-2061.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28Beginning Jan. 28, Florida Museum of Natural History vis-itors will be able to get up closeand personal with big, and even poisonous, frogs in the museum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” 
Showcasing various species of 
frogs and toads, “Frogs!” is the most advanced traveling frog exhibit in the country. Guests may view tree frogs, bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant toads and poison dart frogs. The museum will host a public opening cel-ebration that includes a Froggy 
5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. 
to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Jan. 24 or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit fl mnh.ufl.
edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” 
is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students; $5 for children aged 3 to 17; and free to muse-um members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. The Florida Museum will display “Frogs!” through Sept. 4.
Paddle Florida announces 
Great Calusa Blueway trip in Southwest Florida
Paddle Florida’s Great Calusa 
Blueway trip will explore the history, culture and beauty of Southwest Florida waterways Feb. 11 to Feb. 17. This 57-mile paddling adventure crosses Lee County’s creeks, rivers and bays, where paddlers will explore mangrove tunnels and 
aquatic reserves. The registra-
tion deadline is Jan. 28. The trip fee is $700 per person, with discounts for seniors, college students and children. The fee covers camping, meals, gear, personal shuttles, evening programming and waterway guides. Since the trip will cross 
open waters of the Gulf’s back 
bays, Paddle Florida recom-mends sea kayaks at least 16 feet in length equipped with a rudder or skeg and spray skirt. For more trip details and regis-tration, visit paddleflorida.org.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design ChallengeOn Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda Chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, information and giveaways, including a live 
SEXpert panel, free food and 
free tank tops (limited quanti-ties available) will be featured. The event will also feature the Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to reg-ister yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/con-dom-design-challenge.
Got something going on?  
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 77
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  59° LOW  41°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris   
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Emily Mavrakis 
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 1,000 ﬂ  owers, nicknamed the 
Queen of Winter, were judged at Kanapaha 
Botanical Gardens over the weekend.
The Gainesville Camellia Society hosted 
its 41st annual show, which drew in gar-deners from Florida and Georgia. During the contest, the slow-growing ﬂ  owers could win one of two awards: best in show or run-ner-up, said John Swanson, the president of 
the Gainesville Camellia Society.
Growers whose ﬂ  owers won best in show 
earned a cash prize of about $20, Swanson 
said, but people are generally more inter-
ested in the honor itself.
“Some people just want to be able to 
say ‘I got best in show,’ and that’s all they 
need,” he said.About 30 judges, certiﬁ  ed by the Ameri-
can Camellia Society, walked around camel-lia-covered tables, Swanson said. 
Head judge Eileen Hart has judged ﬂ  ow-
ers, including camellias, since 1988. She 
said she looks for correct size, color and 
shape when determining winners.
“Sometimes, a bloom just stands out, 
and you know that’s the one,” she said.
Hart said judges study blooms for years 
and have to pass a test in order to be a judge in the competition.
In comparison to other ﬂ  owers, Swanson 
said camellias are one of the only plants 
that thrive in the cold. 
“Camellias are called the ‘Queen of Win-
ter,’” Swanson said. “It keeps its leaves 
during the wintertime, so they’re a beauti-
ful ornamental plant for your yard.”  Gainesville Camellia Society hosts annual competitionMore than 1,000 lowers were entered in the competition
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s College of Education is 
partnering with a tech company 
to teach Colorado teachers how 
to, well, teach better.
The college’s Lastinger Center 
for Learning will partner with the company Promethean World Ltd. 
to improve how educators teach at under-achieving schools. Colo-rado educators will begin learn-
ing from the program this Sum-
mer.
UF and Promethean will be 
among six other providers run-ning the program, said Philip 
Poekert, the center’s assistant di-
rector and Colorado project man-ager.
“Working in Colorado is with-
in a general realm of the work that we do,” Poekert said.
The UF center and Promethe-
an will train facilitators who will 
then demonstrate what they’ve 
learned to teachers, coaches, school administrators, district ad-ministrators and charter school management staff in Colorado, 
Poekert said.
Participants will attend a 
four-day session in the summer 
and ﬁ  ve sessions throughout the 
school year to receive feedback, 
Poekert said.
The Colorado Department of 
Education started the program 
to help underachieving schools. Colorado will give the schools grants, which will be used to pay 
the providers, including UF.
Mark Quintana, the Promethe-
an senior education consultant and Colorado project adviser, 
said one of the program’s focuses 
is to show teachers how to be ex-perts on how individual children learn.
Identifying the learning style 
of each child is a common need in low-performing schools, Quin-tana said.
“And it’s not necessarily cook-
ie-cutter, or the same, for every individual child,” Quintana said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUF, technology company 
partner to help train teachers
By Courtney Moberley 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A white coach bus exclusively for 
UF students and their families will leave 
campus on Friday for the ﬁ  rst time, its sights set on South Florida.
After having difﬁ  culty ﬁ  nding a bus 
route to take her home to Broward County during school holidays, Na-thalie Prieto, 22, founded University Express Bus in 2016, after graduating from UF with a bachelor’s degree in telecommunications last Spring. 
One-way and round-trip tickets, 
which range from $45 to $65, are avail-able online, and Prieto said she hopes 
to keep the service running every week-
end. When passengers buy tickets on-line, they’re asked how they’re related to the UF community. 
As of now, the bus will leave from the Gale Lemerand Drive Commuter Lot and stop at a rest stop, Pompano Beach in Broward County, the Mall at 
163rd Street in Miami and Dadeland 
Mall in Miami.
Rochelle Perera, 21, used Megabus 
to travel home during her ﬁ  rst two years at UF. The UF psychology senior said the bus dropped her off near her house and was cheap, but she still had issues with the service.
“I’ve had to wait 45 minutes, and 
I didn’t know if the bus was going to come or not,” Perera said.
Prieto said she wanted to minimize 
students’ annoyances when they fre-quently travel home on buses.
“I knew what it was like to be a stu-
dent, and I knew what it was like to be riding the bus for six hours when you’re trying to get home,” Prieto said.   UF grad starts up bus 
service to South Florida Emily Mavrakis / Alligator
Gainesville Camellia Society member Linda Green helps set up the cards placed by 
entry ﬂ  owers. More than 1,000 camellias were entered in the Camellia Show.they were doing. 
“She truly was selfless,” she said. “She 
would drop anything to help anyone out.” 
After her time with the American Red 
Cross, Roselle planned on returning to UF for 
her medical degree. 
Roselle enrolled in a Summer 2015 prereq-
uisite class for UF’s medical school, wrote John 
Hines, UF’s public records and public affairs coordinator, in an email.
But before she could start, Roselle wound 
up hospitalized for seizures and other prob-lems. To stabilize her, she was placed in a medically induced coma for four months, her 
mom said. 
In August 2015, her boyfriend, Peter Cai, 
set up a GoFundMe website that raised more 
than $16,000 to help cover her medical expens-es. Roselle’s AKDPhi sisters shared the link on Facebook, asking for help.
Klea Jampasar, one of Roselle’s closest 
sorority sisters, visited Roselle in the hospital several times.
Among her six years knowing Roselle, she 
said she treasured the quiet nights. Sitting in Roselle’s car long past midnight, the two would talk about growing old together.  “You never really capture those moments 
where you’re just sitting with one of your close friends, just talking about life at 3 a.m.,” she said, “but the memories that really stick out to me are the private ones that me and Roselle shared.”
During one of Jampasar’s many hospital 
visits, Roselle woke up and saw her, along with some of the other sisters from AKDPhi.
“I love you guys,” Jampasar remembers 
Roselle saying.
•   •   •
On one of her last trips before being hos-
pitalized, Roselle posed for polaroid photos in Times Square, New York.
Standing next to her youngest sister, Leigh 
Ann Derequito, 18, they smiled in front of the 
flashing billboards.
Following her sister’s death, Leigh Ann 
Derequito said she and Roselle’s other sisters 
have grown closer. Over the last few days, they’ve poured over home movies, flipped through her scrapbooks and unearthed high-school planners and yearbooks.
Leigh Ann plans to bury the Times Square 
polaroid photos with her sister. She hopes it 
will make Roselle smile.
Mildred Anonoy, a nanny for the sisters for 
more than 20 years, said she felt like Roselle’s second mother. She said she’ll miss the happy 
moments, Roselle’s smile and her larger-than-life personality. 
“She’s still in our hearts,” Anonoy said. “It doesn’t matter where she is right now. She’s still in our hearts.”
rellenbogen@alligator.org
@romyellenbogen4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
EPILOGUE,  from pg1She had plans to return to UF to pursue her medical degreeState group videos, according to AP. 
•   •   •
Biana said half an hour after hearing about the 
shooting, about 20 Transportation Security Admin-istration members ran down Terminal 3, screaming at everyone to get down. He thought they looked like they were running away.
He immediately dropped to the ground and hid 
behind a column as others ran to hide in a bath-room.
Biana said he didn’t hear gunshots, but hiding 
behind that column was the worst 10 minutes of his life.
He said he received messages from a friend that 
there was a second shooter in the Hibiscus garage. At a televised press conference, Broward County 
Sheriff Scott Israel later confirmed there was not a 
second shooter.
Security officers soon began evacuating every-
one onto the tarmac, as far away from the garage as possible. No one told the airport visitors what happened, Biana said.
As thousands stood outside calling and texting 
loved ones, Biana didn’t know if his flight would be rescheduled or refunded, but by then he just wanted to go home.
“We were all just in shock that this was hap-
pening here in our backyard,” he said. “It’s sad that the ‘hashtag pray for blank’ could be applied any-where.”•   •   •
Glen Baker, a Gainesville Police Department offi-
cer working at Gainesville Regional Airport, said the shooting didn’t affect the airport’s security Friday.
“Security hasn’t been increased any more than 
normal, but we’re always aware something could 
happen,” he said.
There were no scheduled flights to Fort Lauder-
dale on Friday, and no flights to Miami were can-
celed.
Hannah Kaufman, a UF alumna, was on the last 
flight to leave the Fort Lauderdale airport Friday be-fore it was shut down.
After visiting her family and boyfriend in Fort 
Lauderdale, the 22-year-old was heading back to 
Georgetown University’s law school. Her flight was 
scheduled for 12:20 p.m. and delayed twice.
Kaufman was in Terminal 3 and could hear a 
muffled intercom announcement as she walked to-ward the plane. Flight attendants urged passengers to board faster.
It wasn’t until she was in her assigned seat 
scrolling through Twitter that Kaufman realized what was happening. No one on the plane seemed 
to be reacting, she said.
“It was so strange to be that close to it and not 
know what was going on,” she said.
About to land in D.C., the pilot announced to 
the passengers the airport was closed. They were 
the last to leave. 
“I obviously feel very lucky,” she said. “We 
could’ve been standing there when it happened.”SHOOTING,  from pg1The shooter visited the FBI in Nov.IT WILL HELP NEW 
STUDENTS WITH GRADES, 
ON CAMPUS RESOURCES.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
A new UF mentorship program 
is helping Hispanic and Latino fresh -
men adjust to college life.
The Latino Educational Advance -
ment Program, started by Hispanic Latino Affairs this Spring, is a five-week program that aims to help fresh
-men succeed in college classes and get involved on campus, said Carissa Cullum, the coordinator for LEAP. The program began Friday when the first 20 mentees and 10 mentors in
-
troduced themselves in the Multicul -
tural and Diversity Affairs suite.
Cullum, a 24-year-old UF Latin 
American studies graduate student, said the program will host workshops every Tuesday starting this week. 
The workshops will teach students 
about on-campus resources, study tips, scholarship opportunities and Hispanic and Latino inclusion in higher education, she said.
“I think LEAP is unique in that we 
focus in academic success,” Cullum said.
Although the program is aimed at 
Hispanic and Latino students, it is not exclusive to them, she said.
LEAP will recruit students during 
the beginning of semesters before they get involved on campus, said the Hispanic Latino Affairs Director Gabe 
Lara. The program’s workshops will 
give students academic advice to earn better grades during their time at UF.
“It’s always a surprise when any
-body sees someone of color graduate college,” Lara said. “We want to get away from that shock value that we could graduate, and we could go to college and we could do something 
great.”
Talia Lopez, a UF marketing 
freshman, said she applied to be a 
LEAP mentee because during Fall she wasn’t aware of on-campus pro
-
grams that would help her as a Latina student.
“I’m a first-generation student, so 
I don’t have anyone else to talk to,” the 19-year-old said.Juan Luis Giudicelli-Ortiz, a UF 
health education and behavior ju
-
nior, said he became a LEAP mentor to help other Hispanic and Latino stu
-
dents like himself.
“When I came in as a freshman 
I didn’t have an opportunity to do something like this,” the 21-year-old said. “Coming into a white-predomi
-
nant institution, I didn’t know about the resources that I had.”
jtavel@alligator.org
@taveljimenaHispanic Latino Affairs launches mentorship program
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
WEATHERING THE WEATHER
Karen McElveen, 50, stands near a fire for warmth at her campsite in 
Dignity Village on Sunday. With temperatures dipping below freezing on Saturday night and the early hours of Sunday, residents living in Dignity Village endured the weather in tents. “We had some people come by with blankets, ” McElveen said. “That was nice, but it’s still cold. ”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Roselle Derequito is joined by her sorority sisters from Alpha Kappa Delta Phi, who helped support her during her illness.MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer 
About 150 eager high-schoolers 
gathered at UF on Friday, each an-
ticipating their own robotic takeover.
At 10:45 a.m., a live-streamed 
broadcast watched by 60,000 people 
across the globe announced the de-
tails of the 2017 First Robotics Com-petition. Building Others Through STEM, a UF student organization cre-ated last Fall, hosted a season-kickoff event for the competition, which is steampunk-themed this year. This was the ﬁ  rst year an annual kickoff 
event was at UF, held at the New 
Physics Building.
Teams now have six weeks to 
build a robot, said Daniel Fischman, the event co-coordinator. 
At competitions, teams complete 
objectives to win points in a themed obstacle course, like having the ro-bots climb ropes or throw balls. 
Teams can compete in as many com-petitions as they can afford.
Sarah Parker, a 19-year-old mi-
crobiology sophomore and the UF or-ganization’s marketing director, said 
the competition’s registration costs $5,000, and successive competitions cost $4,000.
Michael Bresk, the instructor of 
the Suwannee Bulldogs from Suwan-nee High School, wanted to start a robotics class at his school after teaching disadvantaged students at a 
teacher-intern program.Bresk said he hopes by exposing 
his students to STEM, they will be in-
spired to attend a university.
“Whether they study robotics or 
not, they see that going to college, and what they’re doing right now, it can be fun,” he said.
The Bulldogs opted for a quick-
build the day of the kickoff, mean-ing they would construct the robot on the spot while UF students could help.
Other teams take the whole six weeks to build their robots while 
still receiving mentorship. The Roar-
ing Riptide, from Gainesville’s P. K. Yonge Developmental Research School, receives guidance from UF students and professors.
“It’s nice knowing that we can go 
to people who have a lot of knowl-edge in engineering to help us make our robots the best we can,” Andrea 
Wright, 16, said.
@romyellenbogen 
rellenbogen@alligator.org  High-school robotics competition kickoff held at UF 
By Mary-Lou Watkinson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Diarrah Sadler stood on the steps 
of her home and listened as family 
and friends remembered her daugh-ter, Diamond Ward, who turned 16 on Dec. 29 — a celebration that will be 
remembered as her last.
Red and white 
candles lined the 
fence of Sadler’s yard and were held in the hands of about 40 people as they shared their 
favorite memories 
of Diamond, a F.W. Buchholz High 
School student who committed sui-cide Tuesday.
“It hurts me that my love wasn’t 
enough for her,” Sadler, 40, said.
Diamond’s body was found by her 
13-year-old brother after he went into her room to look for his shoes.
“He opened the door and saw her, 
and she had hung herself,” Sadler said. “He yelled, and I ran into her room, and there she was. It was abso-lutely horrible.”
Sadler said she had made plans with her daughter to go to the grocery store, watch a movie and do her hair.
“We made plans for the next day,” 
she said. “I don’t understand how she ended up doing this.”
But she has a feeling it was insti-
gated by bullying at her school. She could have felt like she had no other choice, Sadler said.
“I don’t understand why she could 
feel like that, because I loved her — I love her so much,” she said.
At the vigil, 18-year-old Shidae 
Williams, a close friend of Diamond’s, spoke about her own struggles with bullying and trying to commit suicide at 11 years old.
“If I knew my best friend was being 
bullied, I would have got her help im-mediately,”  she said.
Williams encouraged people to get 
help if they’re being bullied, and she said she never suspected Diamond was having such a tough time.
“My best friend killed herself,” she 
said. “It is hurting me — I don’t un-derstand it.”
Gloria Peace, 54, a family friend, 
said she found out about Diamond’s death Friday after returning from a 
trip. 
She said she became close to the teenager after she chose her for a lead 
model position in a fashion show she’s organizing for February.
“She began to call me Auntie,” 
Peace said. 
Peace said she visited the family 
once after Thanksgiving and promised 
to return, but she never will.
“I said, ‘Diamond, I’ll be back,’” 
she said. “I said, ‘You’re gonna see me 
soon,’ and I never made it back. That’s the only thing I regret right now.” 
Peace expressed sadness at the  
high presence of bullying at Buchholz.
“It’s really going on — it’s so deep, 
she said.”
Sadler said Ward was just trying to 
ﬁ  t in and ﬁ  nd herself. She described Diamond as a superstar, and someone who was loving and always wanted to make people smile.
With tears in her eyes, Sadler said 
she will never be able to see Diamond grow up and accomplish things in her life.
“If you’re being bullied, talk to 
someone,” she said. “Don’t think you’re alone — you’re not.” 
To close the vigil, everyone formed 
a circle and said a prayer. Then, to-gether, they said, “We love you, Dia-mond.” 
      @Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.org ‘ I don’t understand’: 16-year-old 
GNV student honored after suicide
By Melanie Prescott
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of local volunteers 
will travel to Peru next week to 
deliver menstrual pads they’ve 
sewn together to women in need.
On Saturday, more than 70 
volunteers helped sew the reus-
able pads for the trip as a part 
of the 15th-annual Sew-a-Thon event planned by The Alachua County chapter of Days for Girls 
International. Chapter members 
will travel to Peru next week to 
distribute about 100 kits.
A member of the chapter, 
Dollean Perkins, 57, said the kits include two pairs of underwear, two underwear shields, eight lin-ers, a washcloth, a bar of soap, 
an extra zip-close bag and an 
instruction card with a period 
tracking chart on the back.
“Each kit comes with a draw-
string bag that allows girls and 
women to carry the supplies to 
school or work every day of the 
month, without others knowing which days are menstrual,” Per-kins said. 
Girl Scout Troop 733 came up with the idea for reusable sup-
plies after hearing a speech by 
Jacob Atem, who used to live in 
Sudan, Africa, Perkins said. 
Atem said girls in Sudan of-
ten drop out of school because 
of their period. 
Perkins said after hearing 
from Atem, the girls in the troop 
knew they wanted to help. 
“Back then it was about 
learning the basics of sewing,” Perkins said. “Now, we can eas-
ily make 200 kits during one 
Sew-a-Thon.”
Savannah Stura, a 19-year-
old UF biology sophomore, participated in the event with her service fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega. 
“I think a lot of people don’t 
realize that these girls don’t have the same opportunities as we have here,” Stura said. “Once you educate a population, they can do so much for themselves.”  Locals to deliver hand-
sewn pads to Peru 
WHERE THEY’RE GOING IN 2017:
• Peru 
• Colombia
• Ecuador 
• Haiti
• NepalThe event revealed the global competition’s theme
Ward
She attended Buchholz The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORGutting Aﬀ  ordable Care Act : a misguided thought
Repealing the Affordable Care Act could 
be disastrous, especially for those who make up most of Donald Trump’s sup-porters. Coal miners, many of whom voted for President-elect Trump, beneﬁ  t-
ed from black lung beneﬁ  ts that were written into the ACA, also known as Obamacare. Simi-larly, there were subsidies for helping people afford plans. While not perfect, the health care law did solve many problems of the old system, such as cumbersome insurance applications and rejections for pre-existing conditions. U.S. adults often skip care and are sicker than adults in 11 other countries that were surveyed, according to the Commonwealth Fund. While Republicans are fans of American exceptionalism, they have yet to ﬁ  nd a better plan than Obamacare or a sin-gle-payer system. Instead of working on a plan that could be an alternative to Obamacare, Republicans simply op-posed it and called for a repeal, as if the health care system was perfect to begin with until Barack Obama messed it up.
Over the course of the presidential campaign, it was 
clear that Trump didn’t have a lot of control over the GOP, and this has bled over into his time as president-elect. While he advocated for repeal and replace (with what, he never speciﬁ  ed), the party pushed ﬁ  rst and foremost for a repeal without an alternative. However, even the GOP is beginning to see how a repeal and delay tactic could be terrible for health care. Some Republicans worry that their party will be blamed for ruining the system, causing peo-ple to lose what little coverage they have, reports Politico. This signiﬁ  es a change from the past, when many didn’t worry about consequences to the party and simply wanted anything associated with Obama to go, even though his plan seemed like a fundamentally Republican idea: to make people buy health insurance in the private sector. Politi-co writer Kyle Cheney said, “The RomneyCare exchange, which helped [Massachusetts] provide health coverage to more than 97 percent of residents, became the template for the Obamacare version.” Now that Trump is the president-elect and Republicans are able to do whatever they want legislative-ly, they have realized all this talk of repealing Obamacare never came up with a suitable al-ternative.
Many of Trump’s supporters didn’t believe 
he would ultimately repeal Obamacare, or they wouldn’t say they supported it even though they beneﬁ  ted from it. Many of the Obamacare 
enrollees in Kentucky supported Trump in the election because they were convinced they were paying too much and someone else was getting beneﬁ  ts they didn’t deserve, reports Vox. Some even believed that the most left-wing aspects of the law, such as Medicaid expansion, would be increased. This will prove to be one of the ﬁ  rst challenges for the Trump administration. These voters have clearly put a lot of trust into how he will handle health care, given that he has been very vague in the past about what exactly he wants to do instead of Obamacare. 
Repealing without any replacement in mind is simply 
irresponsible. It leaves many people without the care they need. Health care should be a right, not a privilege for the elite. After taking away Obamacare, the health care system would revert to what it was like during the Bush admin-istration. The uninsured weren’t covered, and those who couldn’t afford health insurance simply didn’t get it, re-sulting in unpaid medical bills. The Republicans love the bootstrap ideology — the idea that getting out of poverty is a matter of hard work — but when people are buried in medical bills, it can be hard for them to dig themselves out, no matter how hard they work. The U.S. cannot afford to revert to this when the quality of life of millions of Ameri-cans is at stake.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and journalism 
junior. Her column runs on Mondays. Self-perception in 
the era of social 
media
It is safe to say that a majority of millennials and those who 
are even younger have some sort of social media account. After all, we are dubbed the social media generation by various media outlets. Whether your interactions with so-cial media just involve the Twitter you had to make for 
class participation, or if you’re constantly picking the perfect Instagram ﬁ  lter, you have most likely had some degree of in-teraction with making a post. Think about the last post you made, whether it be a quick snap on your Snapchat story, a long Facebook life-update or a witty tweet. Would you say that post accurately represents you? Chances are, you’re rolling your eyes and going “duh.”
So often we are warned by the media, within our own gen-
eration and older, that social media does not depict an accu-
rate representation of a person. No one looks as perfect as their 
Instagram selﬁ  e or really goes out as much as their Snapchat story would have you believe. No one’s life is really as hilarious as their Twitter account, and no one’s accomplishments are as grand as their Facebook statuses would have you believe. We are constantly reminded that social media is not real. 
To hammer this point in, articles exposing the fakeness of 
social media pop up everywhere. From exposés about Insta-gram-famous teens who were paid to promote speciﬁ  c items 
with photoshoots orchestrated by big companies, to hashtags 
that trend about social media versus reality. People complain about how fake others seem on social media, often posting their own social media rants about said fake people. We are seem-ingly aware of the fake accounts and do our best to separate ourselves from them.
But what separates someone from having a fake social media 
life and a real social media life? What is the difference between a brunch picture from an Instagram-famous account or the pic-
ture you posted of your lunch, besides the amount of likes?
What we choose to put on social media is curated; no one 
can deny that, even those who insist they are being genuine. 
Because the fact is, we aren’t going to post bits and pieces from our day that we don’t ﬁ  nd somewhat signiﬁ  cant or spe-cial, or that we don’t want to share. A #NoMakeup selﬁ  e is just as much a curated choice as a totally done-up one. A post-gym mirror picture is a conscious choice, just like a picture of someone volunteering at an animal shelter. Whether we make 
a tweet every time we think about doing something or we only 
make Facebook posts for important life updates, the fact is, it is a choice, each and every time.
To this, dear readers, we postulate: Where do our real selves 
end and our social media selves begin? Perhaps we’re all ana-lyzing this wrong. After all, what is the true self? Is it who we are, who we are aware of or who we want to be? Do our true selves not vary from our different stages in life or from the dif-ferent social groups we are a part of? Perhaps our social media 
self is simply an extension of our regular self. Perhaps they are a 
mix of how we want to be seen and how we already are.
We are already keenly aware of what it means to be fake 
on social media, which means that those we believe are being fake must already know that as well. So perhaps when we call someone’s social media presence fake, it is simply because how we see someone does not align with how they see themselves — perhaps the way we are seen does not align with how we project ourselves to the world.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Happy New Year, and happy Mon-
day! Welcome back, everybody. 
I’m sure you all have read plenty of 
pieces discussing New Year’s resolu-tions and their pros and cons. Most 
people seem to either love or hate the idea of these goals many of us set for ourselves. Some of us make a note on our phone and a 
sign for our bulletin board detailing our plan 
to better ourselves.
Others claim that if we wanted to change 
ourselves, we would have started when we conceived the idea, rather than waiting un-til midnight on a speciﬁ  c day to start living 
our lives a certain way. Both of those opin-
ions are valid, I think. Obviously, we don’t have to wait, but Jan. 1 seems as good a 
day as any to start living our lives the way 
we want.
I’m not going to tell you that you should 
feel one way or the other, because, truth-fully, I’m not convinced I feel one way or the other. However, the 
thought of New Year’s resolu-
tions calls to mind a problem that applies to this topic and to most 
topics: comparison.
Comparison can be a beneﬁ  -
cial or toxic concept. It helps us achieve our best selves, because 
we often may not know what we are capable of without other peo-
ple. However, comparison can 
lead us into a pit of anxiety and stress. It’s easy to think that other people’s successes 
are equivalent to our failures, especially if 
something they accomplish is along the lines of something we wanted to accomplish.
I’m not speaking from a place of suc-
cess. I’ve personally struggled with this for as long as I can remember. From money to 
friendship, from academics to extracurricu-lar activities, it can be hard not to 
compare ourselves to others. It 
would be easier to stop if it didn’t 
matter how other people did, but, truthfully, it affects us. So many 
things we value, from admission 
to this university to a bid from a Greek organization, heavily de-
pend on competition. We can say 
all we want that we get where we want in life by our own merit. I do, 
to a degree, agree with this state-
ment, and I do not think we should ever feel 
as though our success is out of our hands.
However, we need to acknowledge that 
comparison is a component of our lives. The ﬁ  rst step to getting over this is to recognize 
that it is a problem. Completely ignoring it 
is almost as bad as completely succumbing to it. Once we acknowledge it, we can com-
bat it.Combatting it doesn't mean ridding our 
lives of anything that could invoke compe-tition or comparison, but merely realizing 
that it's a problem and trying to focus on our own efforts, instead of other people’s 
efforts.
There is nothing we can do about other 
people’s efforts. We can only control what we do. By thinking that we can somehow 
impact other people’s efforts, we are more inclined to sabotage them or only do just 
enough to stay ahead of the pack. This is not 
the way we progress as a society. We can-not achieve our maximum potential by just 
trying to be better than other people. If we 
realize this and try to overcome it, we can be the best people we can be, independent 
of others, for 2017 and the rest of our lives.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology sophomore. Her column appears 
on Mondays.   How to reach your maximum potential: Stop comparing your success to others'Column
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
Hello, Gator Nation, 
Welcome back to 
campus! The Spring se-
mester is upon us, and I hope everyone had a safe 
holiday break. I am looking for-ward to serving as your Student 
Body president for what should 
be a productive Spring semester. 
My administration is hard at 
work planning projects for the 
Spring and have prepared several 
noteworthy events.
The Young Leaders Conference will host 
its 10th annual conference Feb. 3 to 5. YLC 
is a three-day high-school leadership confer-
ence organized and run entirely by UF stu-dents. Through interactive workshops and 
seminars, participants will improve their 
leadership theory and experiences. 
UF’s ﬁ  rst annual Big Event will be held April 1. The Big Event is a nation-wide service day planned and run 
by UF students. The day is kicked 
off with an opening ceremony and followed by UF students per-
forming three- to four-hour ser-
vice projects across Gainesville 
— all “For The Gator Good!”
Newell Hall will be opening in 
April. It will serve as a 24-hour 
study facility that will provide 
students with the space and tech-
nologic infrastructure they need to ensure 
success in the classroom. 
I encourage everyone to come to the 
third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union and learn more about Student Government and the 
resources we provide.
Make sure to follow my administration 
on Facebook (UF Student Government), Twitter (@UF_SG), Snapchat (@UFstudent-
gov) and Instagram (@ufsg) to see what we’re up to throughout the semester. 
As always, please feel free to reach out 
with any comments, questions or concerns. Go Gators!
Susan Webster is the UF Student Body 
president. Her column appears monthly.Get ready for a great Spring semesterColumn
There’s no denying it 
— the acronym for the queer community has 
gotten long. This has 
become a source of con-
fusion for some people, espe-cially those who aren’t part of the queer community. I ﬁ  nd myself increasingly obligated to 
let people know that the “A” in 
LGBTQIA+ does not stand for “ally,” but “asexual."
While it is nice to have support, spaces 
that are built for the LGBTQIA+ commu-nity are not spaces that are necessarily in-clusive to allies. Sure, there are multiple spaces where allies are welcome. It only becomes a problem when allies infringe 
upon spaces in which they are not invited.
Ultimately, though allies are appreciat-
ed in any community, they are not a part 
of said community. They are not part of 
the marginalized group and do not experi-
ence the same oppressions.Being an ally is about sup-
porting LGBTQIA+ people in any way you can. This can take 
many forms: attending LGBTQ-
IA+ meetings open to allies, ﬁ  ghting for LGBTQIA+ rights — even using your privilege to help them. Just make sure you are not masking the voices of 
LGBTQIA+ people. Be certain 
you are never overstepping your boundar-
ies, and always listen to queer people if they tell you that you are. By being a good 
ally who is respectful of LGBTQIA+ only 
spaces, you are supporting the LGBTQIA+ movement and helping to forward the ac-ceptance of queer people everywhere. The LGBTQIA+ community could not be 
where it is today without the assistance of 
allies, and they will continue to be neces-sary in our ﬁ  ght moving forward.
A version of this column by Logan 
Marks originally ran in the Daily Emer-
ald.Straight allies: Defend the LGBTQIA+ 
community, but do not overstep itUWire
Logan Marks
UWire
Susan
Webster
opinions@alligator.org
“My administration is 
hard at work planning 
projects for the Spring."8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer 
In late January, students in 
the College of Journalism and 
Communications will get to learn from a former CNN edi-tor.
On Friday, the college an-
nounced online that Mira Lowe, who began working at CNN in 2012, will serve as the new di-rector of the Innovation News Center, the college’s newsroom that serves 19 counties in North 
Central Florida. The center can 
house nearly 100 student re-porters at a time and produces 
content for WUFT and afﬁ  li-
ates.
Lowe will be paid $120,000 
a year and ofﬁ  cially begins Jan. 
27, UF spokesman Steve Orlan-do wrote in an email.
Lowe, 53, said the position 
will allow her to work closely with the next generation of stu-dent journalists.
“I’d love to see the INC be a 
premier model for what student newsrooms look like around the country,” she said.
Fernando Juncadella, a UF 
telecommunication senior, said as a sports anchor for WUFT, he typically works closely with 
the director of the INC. The 
21-year-old said he’s excited to 
meet and work with Lowe.
“She comes from a news 
background, but she’s also 
done stuff with entertainment and lifestyle, so me being a 
specialty reporter, that’s really cool, because then I’ll be able to bounce ideas off her,” Junc-adella said.
The center takes students 
from telecommunication and 
journalism courses, Deputy 
News Director Gary Green said. This makes the news center a 
complex workplace, he added.
“It really takes a powerful 
leader to pull all those differ-
ent moving parts together and get it moving in the right direc-
tion,” Green said.He said he believes Lowe’s 
multimedia experience with 
CNN will translate to the news-room well, because WUFT also provides different forms of con-tent.
“I think Mira’s experience 
shows that she’s the sort of person that can not only help us through the day to day, but look for the future and kind of a broader picture,” Green said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  
 Former CNN editor to lead UF’s Innovation News Center
Lowe
UF graduate Heather Rohrer, 26, holds a handcrafted blue oval ring made by Lauralie Bradford, who has her own business called ShopTheGenesis. Bradford said she wanted her own career and to make things that didn’t exist.
Several women browse through clothes at the vendor Frolic Exchange. Brie Denicourt, 24, the owner of Frolic Exchange, which is located in T ampa, Florida, said she was inspired to open her own vintage clothing store after storing tons of clothes in her parents’ garage.
Itchin’ to 
attend the Indie Flea
Photos By Alan Alvarez, Alligator Staff
The monthly Indie Flea 
Gainesville Pop Up Market was held at Depot Park on Saturday, with 20 vendors, hundreds of people and some pets in attendance. The ﬂ  ea market started last month and brings “artisans, crafters, and makers, from Florida and beyond. ” She will be paid $120,000 a yearMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Dear Students,
Welcome back to campus! I hope everyone enjoyed the holiday season and had a chance to spend some quality time with family 
and friends. 
I
I have worked for 23-plus years in the Southeastern Conference and have visited Gainesville a number of times on the opposite 
sidelines. I have many memories about my trips to the University of Florida, but one of the things that always stood out to me 
was the passion, energy and relentless support from the students. You made it a tough place to visit and I’m certainly thankful 
I’m on your sideline now.  
Your experience at our events is important to us and we will be constantly looking at ways to improve them for you. We also are 
continually looking for ways to engage with you and seek input on how to enhance your experience. 
T
To that end, we have just ﬁnished $100 million worth of new facility projects in a 16-month period, highlighted by the recent 
grand opening of the Exactech Arena at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on December 21st.  You will be impressed with the
comfortable chair-back seating, enhanced sound and lighting systems, and the new digital video boards and displays. 
Right around the corner are three facility upgrade projects totaling $100 million that will elevate our football operations and
enhance your experience at our baseball and softball games. 
I
I look forward to seeing you around campus at our events - please feel free to stop and say hello. Thanks again for all of your 
support and Go Gators!
Scott Stricklin
Athletic Director
A NOTE FROM THE DESK OF SCOTT STRICKLIN
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
After his arrest Friday, a 
Gainesville man confessed to 
sexually assaulting a minor 
last month, Gainesville Po-
lice said.
The fe-
male vic-
tim, whose 
age was 
redacted 
from a po-lice report, 
told police 
Thomas  
Dowling, 20, assaulted her 
Dec. 1 while the two were watching a movie at home, 
according to the report.
Dowling started kissing 
her neck and chest before 
performing cunnilingus on the girl, while ignoring her 
as she repeatedly told him to 
stop, according to the report. 
She said he threatened he would do it again if she told anyone.Dowling then removed 
her clothes and sexually assaulted her, she told po-
lice, according to the report. 
Again, she told him to stop, but he continued.
And it wasn’t the first 
time. The girl told police 
Dowling assaulted her  10 
years ago, according to the report.
Speaking with police, 
Dowling described an inter-
nal struggle: he drunkenly 
lusted for the girl while his conscience told him not to, according to the report. He 
should have stopped, Dowl-
ing told police, but he didn’t.
Police arrested him on a 
charge of sexual battery of a 
minor. Authorities took him 
to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remains, as of press 
time, on a $250,000 bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGainesville man 
assaulted minorBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Dowling
THE ACCIDENT 
OCCURRED NEXT 
TO SORORITY ROW.
A Lake City man was ar-
rested for driving under the 
influence after rear-ending a scooter at a red light Sunday, Gainesville Police said.
An -
thony  Eugene  Singleton, 50, was driving  
a purple 2007  Mazda 3 
at about 
2:05 a.m. when he crashed 
into a stopped scooter at the 
intersection of Southwest 
13th Street and Diamond Road, just down the road from UF campus, according to a police report.
The scooter driver suf-
fered minor injuries, accord-ing to the report. The back of the scooter and the front 
of Singleton’s car were dam-
aged.
A red-and-teary-eyed Sin-
gleton smelled like alcohol as he struggled to find his insur-ance information, according to the report.
Police said Singleton had 
difficulty describing what 
occurred and repeated the 
officer’s questions before an-swering them.
Singleton performed 
poorly on field sobriety ex-ercises and, using a breatha-lyzer, police recorded his blood-alcohol levels to be .023 and .022, which is be-
low the legal limit.
The toxicity report of a 
urine sample was not avail-
able as of press time.
Police arrested Singleton 
on a charge of driving under the influence with property damage. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where 
he remains, as of press time, 
in lieu of a $10,000 bond.Man crashes car 
into scooter
About a week after 
the season, a UF football 
player suffered an off-the-field hit Sunday after an argument at UF’s Keys 
Residential Complex, Uni
-
versity Police said.
Aisia  
Shakiyla 
Valmyr, 18, was 
arrest
-
ed for punch
-
ing  6-foot-3-inch  
defensive lineman An
-
tonneous Clayton, 19, at about 12:07 a.m., accord
-
ing to a police report. 
Valmyr is listed as a 
student in the UF online student directory.
Clayton told police 
he was punched and felt pain on the right side of his temple, according to the report. Officers then found Valmyr and read her Miranda rights to her.
She told police she was 
in the Keys complex and 
had an argument with 
Clayton, according to the report.
It was Valmyr’s first 
arrest in Alachua County, according to court records.
While only playing in 
five games in the 2016 football season, Clayton, a 
UF freshman, was a highly 
sought recruit. He signed to UF after turning down offers from the University of Alabama, Clemson Uni
-
versity and Florida State University, according to an ESPN player profile.
Police arrested Valmyr 
on a charge of battery. 
Authorities took her to 
the Alachua County Jail where she was released on her own recognizance Sunday afternoon.
Valmyr and Clayton de
-
clined to comment.UF football player 
punched in head 
Singleton
Valmyr
MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-22BR/1BA APTS ON UNIVERSITY AVEAcross from O'Connell Center. Modern, clean. Available January or earlier. $600/mo. K&M Properities 352-372-1509    1-9-16-5-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
LARGE 2 bedroom with wood floors located 
downtown. $1150/mth with utilities included. 
237 SW 2nd Pl. Call 870-2760     1-10-17-5-2
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th 
Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-4-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 12 AutosMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647          1-6-1-12
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-11-17-5-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
PART TIME SALES ASSISTANT needed for local Audio/Video retail store. approx. 15-17 hrs per week.Thurs & Fri 12-6pm and Sat 10am-3pm. Ideally, applicant should be tech savvy, have some retail experience, be organized and posses good communica -
tion skills. Position starts at $10 per hour. Applicants can email resume to mark@elec -
tronics-world.net.    1-13-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Rides for hire
5 Rapids transports
10 Toothed tonsorial
tool
14 Treaty partner
15 Open courtyards
16 “So that’s what
you mean”
17 Shakespearean
king
18 “Just handle the
problem!”
20 Jam session
jammer
22 Signs of sadness23 Upstage one’s
co-stars
26 Tavern brew27 Some
motorcycles and
pianos
32 Lawn-wrecking
pests
36 Sewn edge
37 __ president
38 Big sale, where
you can find the
starts of 18-, 23-,49- and 60-Across
42 Mongolian desert
43 No-frills sleeper44 Fire pit particles45 ’70s-’80s band
with a steering
wheel on theirdebut albumcover
47 Google success
49 Employ stalling
tactics
55 Pro on camera
59 Like some rays
outside thevisible spectrum
60 Take into
account
63 Fill fully64 Qatari ruler65 British unit of
length
66 Hall of Famer
Musial
67 Relaxed gait
68 Old West search
party
69 Narrow-bodied
swimmers
DOWN
1 Brings peace to
2 Native Alaskan3 Having a been-
there-done-that
attitude
4 War-torn country
since 2011
5 Goodyear offering6 “Relax, soldier”
7 Pre-euro Metz
money
8 Up to, in ads
9 Got a look at
10 Use as a
reference
11 Workplace
standards org.
12 Israel’s Golda13 Puts money (on)19 To-do list entry21 Envelope fastener24 Looked at closely
25 Birth certificate
datum
28 “We Try Harder”
car rental chain
29 Air conditioner
setting
30 Suffer from
overexertion
31 Goes below the
horizon
32 Senior NCO
33 “Oops!”34 Place for an
earring35 Grand-scale
poem
36 Pres. between
FDR and DDE
39 Sandy shade
40 Flushed, as
cheeks
41 Down the road
46 Magician’s
syllables
47 Pays tribute to
48 “My schedule is
wide open”50 Works with flour
51 Cup for café or
thé
52 Blowing one’s top
53 Lead or zinc
54 Blissful regions
55 Cain’s victim
56 Commando garb
57 Stumble
58 Kiddie lit monster
61 Mischief-maker
62 Modernist’s
prefix
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/09/1701/09/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, January 9, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-11-17-5-15
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching & aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-17-17-8-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMP
Get Stronger & Harder Immediately. Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Brochure: 1-800-354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com                  1-6-1-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305                 1-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. In 2015, pitcher Dallas Keuchel 
set a Houston Astros record for most 
strikeouts by a left-hander (216). Who 
had held the mark?
2. Lucas Duda tied a New York Mets 
record in 2015 for most multi-homer 
games in a season (seven). Who else 
did it for the Mets?
3. Who holds the Cleveland Browns 
mark for most passing yards in a regu-
lar-season game?
4. When was the last time before 
2016 that Clemson’s men’s basketball team beat consecutive ranked oppo-nents?
5. With which NHL team did Hall of 
Fame goalie Rogie Vachon begin his 16-season career?
6. Who was the only Robert Yates 
Racing driver to win NASCAR’s Cup championship?
7. Who was the last non-European 
tennis player before Milos Raonic in 2016 to reach the final of men’s sin-gles at Wimbledon?
Answers
1. Mike Cuellar, with 203 strikeouts 
in 1967.
2. Dave Kingman (1976) and Carlos 
Delgado (2008).
3. Josh McCown threw for 457 
yards in a game in 2015.
4. It was 1989.5. Montreal, in 1967.6. Dale Jarrett, in 1999.7. Andy Roddick, in 2009.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 2, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
In her ﬁ  nal season at UF, volleyball player Alex Holston led a group of young players to a lasting bond. Find out how, pg. 15 Florida defensive back returning for senior season
Marcell Harris, who led the Gators in tackles in 2016, announced on Twit-
ter Sunday night that he's returning for his senior season. "I'm blessed and 
thankful for everyone's love, Gator Nation and more, " he wrote. "With that said, I've decided to stay for my senior season. "By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
With two minutes left in the 
second quarter, A’ja Wilson and 
Alaina Coates smacked Dyandria 
Anderson’s layup attempt out of 
bounds like they were spiking a volleyball.
The two looked at each other, 
smiled nonchalantly and shook 
hands before getting back into 
their defensive positions.
It was that kind of day for No. 5 
South Carolina.
The Gamecocks defeated 
unranked Florida 81-62 on Sunday afternoon in the O’Connell Center behind a stellar defensive effort, 
blocking six shots and holding 
the Gators to a season-low 36.5 
shooting percentage from the ﬁ  eld.
UF also had no answer for 
Wilson, who ﬁ  nished with a game-
high 23 points and 13 rebounds to 
notch her ﬁ  fth double-double this 
season.
Freshman guard Delicia 
Washington, meanwhile, led 
Florida in scoring with 18 points and added seven rebounds and three steals. However, her performance wasn’t enough to propel the Gators (9-7, 0-3 SEC) to their ﬁ  rst SEC victory of 2017.
“People, against a great team 
like South Carolina, are OK with 
respectable losses,” UF coach 
Amanda Butler said. “(But) that’s not the way that we’re wired. That’s not what our expectation is. 
We’re very disappointed that we 
lost.”
After an evenly played ﬁ  rst 
frame saw Florida trailing by 
only two points, the following 10 
minutes were a disaster for the 
Gators.
UF’s starting frontcourt of 
Tyshara Fleming, Haley Lorenzen 
and Ronni Williams all picked up 
their third fouls, forcing Butler 
to bench her bigs and go with a 
smaller lineup.
As a result, the Gamecocks (13-
1, 3-0 SEC) outrebounded Florida 
17-9 in the quarter, including seven 
offensive boards that resulted in 12 
second-chance points.
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Delicia Washington drives into the paint during Florida's 81-62 loss to South Carolina on Sunday in the O'Connell Center. Washington's team-high 18 points were the second most of her career.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: UF 62, S. CAROLINA 81
Following putrid second quarter, Florida  falls to South Carolina
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14GYMNASTICSMONDAY MATTERS / OPINION 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Jenny Rowland wasn’t look-
ing for perfection from her team in its ﬁ  rst meet of the season on the road at N.C. State.
With three freshmen in the 
lineup and the rest of her ath-letes competing for the ﬁ  rst time in nine months, the second-year Florida coach knew the Gators were bound to make a few mis-takes.
But even with a couple of 
early missteps, Florida picked up where it left off last season in the NCAA Super Six, posting the second-highest season-opening team total in UF history and de-feating the Wolfpack by a ﬁ  nal score of 197.100-194.925. 
And though Florida was 
strong overall, it was junior All-American Kennedy Baker who took home the all-around title, posting at least a 9.825 in all four events.
In the ﬁ  rst rotation, Alex 
McMurtry, who was the only gymnast in the country to score multiple 10s on bars in 2016, immediately posted a meet-high score of 9.90 on the event.
Freshman Amelia Hundley 
kicked off her ﬁ  rst collegiate meet with a 9.850, while fellow freshman Maegan Chant strug-gled on the apparatus, slipping and falling midway through her routine in her debut.
Leading 147.700-146.200 at 
the halfway point of the meet, Florida continued to extend its lead in the last two rotations.
Baker notched a meet-high 
ﬂ  oor score of 9.925, while Hund-ley and sophomore Alicia Boren both earned 9.850s for their rou-tines.Boren and Hundley placed 
second and third in the all-around, respectively.
The Gators also swept the 
Wolfpack in each of the four rotations titles, with Boren col-lecting the vault and beam titles, McMurtry claiming the bar title and Baker claiming both the ﬂ  oor along with all-around.
Also making debuts as Gators 
were freshman Rachel Gowey (9.875 on beam), sophomore Lacy Dagen (9.850 on vault) and Eastern Michigan transfer Rachel Slocum (exhibition). 
Now the Gators will turn 
their focus to Friday night, when they open up SEC competition against Kentucky and host their ﬁ  rst meet in the newly renovated O’Connell Center.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org 
Gators open 2017 season with 
road win  against N.C. State  
It’s hard to pinpoint 
exactly when Dolphins fans 
gave up hope on 
Sunday. 
Maybe it was while 
watching Pittsburgh 
receiver Antonio 
Brown race 50 yards into the end zone fewer than three minutes into the game. Or while seeing him catch 
another 62-yard touchdown ﬁ  ve 
minutes later.
Or maybe while witnessing 
Steelers linebacker Bud Dupree turn 
quarterback Matt Moore’s jaw to 
jelly with an illegal helmet-to-hel-met hit.
But despite a 30-12 bashing in 
their ﬁ  rst playoff game of the de-
cade, Miami fans can be proud of 
the Dolphins’ lousy 10-win season. They deserve it. So what if the Dol-
phins got blown out on Sunday?
The sun-friendly 
Dolphins had to play the Steelers in sub-freezing conditions 
without their starting 
quarterback. 
The Dolphins were 
already down 20-3 in 
the second quarter when the earth-
shaking hit on Miami’s Moore hand-
icapped any hope of a comeback. Miami turned the ball over on its next three drives. 
Meanwhile, the Steelers’ Big 
Three — Brown, QB Ben Roethlis-berger and running back Le’Veon Bell — were impeccable in their ﬁ  rst playoff game together. 
And even if the Dolphins had 
pulled off the upset, they’d have to  The Dolphins’ season was 
an ugly, shameful success
Matt Brannon
twitter: @mattb_72714   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams prepares to attempt a layup against the Gamecocks. Her six points against South 
Carolina were her fewest of the season. 
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Coach Amanda Butler (left) gestures while speaking with assistant coach Bill Ferrara on Sunday. 
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff 
Haley Lorenzen prepares to grab an inbound pass during Florida's loss to South Carolina on Sunday. Her 15 points against the Gamecocks elevated her season average to 13.1 points per game while her five rebounds dropped her average to 6.7 per game. 
FLORIDA'S STANDOUTS:
• Delicia Washington  – 18 points, 7 rebounds, 3 steals
• Haley Lorenzen  – 15 points, 5 rebounds
• Ronni Williams  – 6 points, 2-of-11 shooting
 S. CAROLINA'S STANDOUTS:
• A ’ja Wilson  – 23 points, 13 rebounds, 3 blocks
• Allisha Gray  – 18 points, 4-of-7 three-point shooting
• Alaina Coates  – 14 points, 13 rebounds, 2 blocksSouth Carolina’s defense also 
generated four blocks and held the Gators to a woeful 1-of-14 shooting in the period. UF finished the half missing its final 11 field-goal attempts and was outscored 26-5 in the second quarter.
“We were playing lineups 
that we’re not used to playing,” Lorenzen said. “So that also makes things a little bit more challenging against such a good defense.”
Florida’s fiasco of a second quarter ultimately proved to be the difference in the contest.
The Gators outscored the 
Gamecocks 57-55 in the other three frames combined and shot 46.7 percent from the field in the second half, leaving Butler optimistic about her team moving forward.“I think we made great progress 
in the right direction,” Butler said. “We’re excited about our next 
opportunity. There’s just a few 
things that are within our control that we’ve got to do a better job with.”
Next up for UF is another challenging matchup on Thursday when the Gators travel to Starkville to face No. 4 Mississippi State (17-
0, 3-0 SEC) at 9 p.m. The Bulldogs 
have won two straight against Florida.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
BASKETBALL,  from pg13Florida outscored Carolina 57-55 excluding the second quarter
travel to New England on Saturday 
for a date with Tom Brady. 
So what if Miami finished 1-5 vs. 
winning teams?
Looking back, the Dolphins may 
have stumbled into their 10-win season. An overtime victory against the 
(1-15) Browns in Week 3. 
A fourth-quarter comeback vs. 
the (5-11) Jets in Week 9. 
A one-score win over the (2-14) 
49ers in Week 12. 
Nevertheless, a 10-6 regular-
season record is still better than 22 other NFL teams. And Miami’s best year since 2008 comes as a particu-lar surprise, considering the Dol-phins fired their head coach mid-season in 2015. 
And while Dolphins fans finish 
the 2016 season with the same old 
questions — How much longer are 
we willing to give Ryan Tannehill to become a good quarterback? — fans are assured at least two things to look forward to in 2017.The emergence of running back 
Jay Ajayi, complemented with a refreshingly existent offense in the hands of head coach Adam Gase, should be enough to keep older fans 
complacent and younger fans play-
ing as the Phins in Madden. 
And because of that, it’s official-
ly safe to be a Dolphins fan again. Miami fans from South Florida to Gainesville are finally poking their fins out of the water, finding that revealing their Dolphins fandom to a friend no longer results in fervent laughter but merely an arrogant 
smirk. 
Baby steps. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org
COLUMN,  from pg13'Fans are assured at least two things to look forward to in 2017.'By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
Eighteen Florida volleyball play-
ers filled the residence with friendly 
chatter, excited laughter and new faces. 
After graduating five seniors and 
riding through the 2015 season with only 15 players, 2016 brought re-cruits and transfers that ballooned the UF volleyball team’s roster and replaced veteran leadership with un-tapped talent.
However, the awkwardness of 
getting to know an almost entirely new team never manifested as the girls introduced themselves in the Panama City beach house.  
Instead, they played Cheeto Toss.A room full of competitive ath-
letes paired up, one partner donning a shower cap lathered with shaving cream while the other pelted the cap with Cheetos, hoping to get the snack stuck on a teammate’s head. 
Not much else needs to be ex-
plained.
“We had these competitive 
games we had to play against each other,” redshirt junior hitter Shainah Joseph said. “It’s not often that you see people being that competitive and yell and hype each other up outside the court.”
This introduction sparked a team 
chemistry that knit the girls tightly together throughout the year. And despite a bitter end to the season, a bond blossomed that team members feel is unparalleled in collegiate vol-leyball, while also setting the foun-dation for future success. 
•   •   •
Just a few months prior, Florida volleyball was brimming with ex-perience. Whether it be hitting, de-fensive expertise or anchoring the middle, the team had a player with years of experience for each role.
Entering the summer of 2016,  
though, the makeup of the team 
drastically changed. Outside hitter 
Alex Holston remained as the sole 
senior on the team, and with that came new weight to shoulder. She had to become a leader. 
Holston spoke with UF coach 
Mary Wise about the new responsi-bilities, became more vocal in prac-tices and learned to look at herself as a role model and mentor.
Of course, Holston also had solid 
examples who preceded her. Players like Mackenzie Dagostino, Taylor Unroe and Chloe Mann all took over as leaders on the team when their 
times came in previous years.
Overall, Holston said that 2014 
senior defensive specialist Maddy Monserez — older sister of current 
Gators setter Allie Monserez — was 
her biggest influence when it came 
to vocal leadership and team build-
ing.
“She was very team-oriented,” 
Holston said. “I feel like that was the 
first priority in everything she did.”
The task was more daunting for 
Holston, though, as she was the first Gator to come in as the lone senior 
since 2002.
But Holston wasn’t the only one 
learning to become a leader, even if 
she was the only one entering her 
final season. 
Wise decided to make junior 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan 
the team captain. Both players were recruited out of Maryland, living 
about 45 minutes away from each 
other. Both played together in club competition two years before joining 
the Gators.
“With her being the captain and 
me being the senior leader, it’s nice 
because for most things we’re on 
the same page,” Holston said.
Because of the connection the 
two had coming into the program,  
they could critique each other, mo-tivate each other and still talk about things outside the court.
“One of the things we do is talk 
about home,” Alhassan said. “And it’s just nice to have that person that understands what I’m talking about, they know the trends from back in the day.”The two now share a profound 
connection. In fact, Holston believes she’s the reason the 6-foot-4 middle blocker chose Florida.
“I love to take the credit for 
Rhamat coming here all the time,” Holston said. “All the time.”
With the two as leaders, the team 
took on the challenge of playing so many newcomers and building team chemistry, throttling any doubts with nation-leading play.
The team completed the regular 
season with a record of 26-3, includ-ing a 16-2 SEC record that won it a share of the conference champi-onship. The Gators led the confer-ence in opponent hitting percentage (.168), kills per set (14.4), assists per set (13.7) and led the nation in hitting percentage (.338).
And when the team wasn’t push-
ing their limits with strong play, they were using the down time to build relationships that go deeper than the game.
“Not a lot of other schools are as 
close as we are,” Joseph said. “Even when we have our off-days and we have a lunch break I’m texting one of my teammates like, ‘Hey, do you want to hang out?’… I think that’s something rare because we are a big team.”
A connection from upperclass-
men down to incoming freshman was always present in the Florida locker room. There was always someone to confide in, look to and bond with.
There was also always someone 
there to help crack a smile.
“Rachael (Kramer), who seems 
like the most quiet, sweet person, is so sassy, so there’s always that to look forward to,” Alhassan said, adding that other players, like Morgyn Greer and Chanelle Harg-reaves, always supply funny mo-ments. “It’s actually like a comedy skit,” 
she said. 
While it may not lead to statisti-
cal jumps or gritty, match-winning 
plays, silliness and laughter helped 
the team grow.
“We’re really good about listen-
ing and making one another laugh,” 
Joseph said. “We’re really close compared to a lot of teams that I’ve played on and other teams that I know of.”
•   •   •
 Wise has said that the best way 
to judge a team is by looking at how it developed over a season.
After a heartbreaking defeat at 
the hands of Florida State that ended Florida’s season in the Round of 32 in the NCAA tournament, questions arose about whether the team gelled the way players suspected.
“Easily one of the most disap-
pointing losses,” Wise said after the performance. 
But with every player other than 
Holston returning next season, the playoff atmosphere and experience could help the team achieve greater goals in 2017. 
And while close ties between 
teammates further motivate future success, they also go beyond the sport. 
“It’s not just a team. It’s our 
friends,” Alhassan said. “Our best friends ... it’s the aspect of family, everyone being there for each other, and just wanting to be there.”
As a result, players are hungrier 
than ever. 
“This will not happen again,” li-
bero Caroline Knop said. “We will be better next year.”
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
From left: Alex Holston, Shainah Joseph and Rhamat Alhassan wait for play to resume during Florida’s 3-0 win over Mississippi State on Oct. 21 at the Lemerand Athletic Center. 
Alligator File Photo
Rachael Kramer (right) and Shainah Joseph attempt a block during Florida’s 3-0 win over Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Athletic Center. 
VOLLEYBALL
BOND BEYOND BALL: Despite disappointing end, UF excited for futureBy Ray Boone
Sports Writer
On Saturday night in the 
O’Connell Center, sophomore 
guard KeVaughn Allen and senior 
forward Justin Leon reigned.
The duo combined to score 42 
points in the Gators’ 83-70 win 
over a physical Tennessee team. 
Allen dropped 23 points 
on 8-of-13 shooting and hit four crucial second-half three-pointers, while Leon notched a UF career-high 19 points and kept 
the Gators aﬂ  oat when Volunteers 
guard Jordan Bowden nailed two 
straight threes to start the ﬁ  nal half. 
But at least one other player 
deserves credit for No. 24 Flori-
da’s gritty weekend victory, and 
he hasn’t made too many appear-ances so far this season.
His name is Schuyler Rimmer.
Rimmer ﬁ  rst checked into the 
game with about six minutes 
remaining in the ﬁ  rst half. The 6-foot-10 senior scored three points, grabbed three rebounds 
and, most importantly, provided 
a productive 16 minutes of action 
while redshirt junior center John Egbunu and sophomore forward Kevarrius Hayes were glued to 
the bench with foul trouble.
“Whether he plays three min-
utes or eight minutes or has 
four DNPs in a row, he doesn’t care,” UF coach Mike White said of Rimmer. “It’s not about him. It’s about Florida basketball. It’s about winning.”
White added that even though 
he doesn’t call Rimmer’s name too often, he’s always ready to step out on the hardwood.
“He stays after practice and 
gets extra work, extra condition-ing to keep his wind up,” White said, “just in case his number’s called.”
However, while Rimmer’s re-
cent play is an encouraging sign going forward, there are issues with the team’s frontcourt. 
Egbunu, plagued by a nagging 
hamstring injury, has had a dif-ﬁ  cult season so far. He hasn’t reached double-digit scoring since he scored 12 points in a 77-72 loss to then-No. 11 Gonzaga on Nov. 25. And in the seven games he’s played since, Egbunu’s averaged just 6.4 points per game and is shooting 42.1 percent from the ﬁ  eld.
On Saturday night, the 6-foot-
11, 255-pound enforcer registered two points, three turnovers, four fouls and failed to grab a rebound in six minutes of action.
“I thought this was a game 
where he was gonna end up maybe playing a majority of the minutes,” White said of Egbunu. “Foul trouble just really hurt him.”
In his second season, Hayes 
has been able to provide produc-tive minutes in place of Egbunu. He’s averaging a career-high 5.4 points and 3.9 rebounds per game and leads the team with a .596 ﬁ  eld goal percentage. However, he sometimes has trouble staying on the ﬂ  oor, severely limiting his impact.
Against the Volunteers, Hayes 
picked up four fouls, scored three points and grabbed two rebounds in 15 minutes of action. However, three games into 
the SEC schedule, the Gators’ 
frontcourt issues have yet to bite 
them. The schedule doesn’t get any easier, though. Outside of Ar-kansas forward Moses Kingsley, 
Florida (12-3, 3-0 SEC) has yet to 
face most of the conference’s pre-mier big men, including the likes of Bam Adebayo, Tyler Davis and Yante Maten.
Only then will the Gators truly 
be forced to deal with their deﬁ  -ciencies. For now, with Egbunu on the mend and Hayes still ﬁ  gur-ing out the college game, Florida 
will continue to lean on consis-
tent production from elsewhere.
“I want all these guys to under-
stand … it was Justin Leon and Canyon Barry and KeVaughn Al-len tonight,” White said. “It could be John Egbunu against Alabama 
… It could be Kevarrius Hayes. 
“It’s about taking the right 
shot that they’re giving us,” 
White said. “It’s about playing the right way.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2017
UF CENTERS SINCE START OF SEC PLAY
Player Points per game Rebounds per gameField-goal percentageBlocks per game Minutes per game
John Egbunu 4.67 5.33 46.2 % 0.3 15.0
Kevarrius Hayes 5.67 4.33 66.6 % 1.3 18.0MEN’S BASKETBALL
UF struggling to ﬁ  ll center position with Egbunu injured 
The Associated Press
Florida center John Egbunu (15) fouls T ennessee forward Grant Williams (2) on this shot attempt dur-ing the ﬁ  rst half of Saturday’s game in Gainesville.
