We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 95 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
Junior thrower making impact
Lloydricia Cameron is leading 
the Gators, pg. 15
Competing gym thrives oﬀ   YMCA instability
Youﬁ  t Health Clubs saw a rise in membership, pg. 4
High-school band to perform in D.C. 
The band needs to raise $100,000, pg. 3FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Former UF quarterback and football Coach 
Steve Spurrier will return to UF on Feb. 13 
as the ﬁ  rst guest of the semester for Accent Speakers Bureau.
Spurrier, who will take part in a Q&A at the 
University Auditorium, will not be paid for the talk, Accent Chairman Mike Greenberg said.
Accent announced the event Thursday.Greenberg said Accent chose Spurrier to 
headline its Spring slate of speakers for his legacy in Gainesville and contributions to 
Gator Football, including a National Champi-
onship win in 1996.
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium’s ﬁ  eld was named 
after Spurrier in September of last year.
“We jumped at the opportunity to get some-
one so loved and revered in the Gainesville community and the whole Gator Nation,” Greenberg said. “It’s a great opportunity for 
us to bring him back.”
Greenberg said he became interested in 
bringing Spurrier when he was named an ambassador and consultant for the athletic department. The UAA helped Accent arrange 
the event. 
Spurrier’s discussion, 
moderated by Department of UF Journalism dean Ted Spiker, is scheduled to be-gin at 7 p.m., with doors opening at 6:30 p.m. 
Students can pick up 
two tickets with their Gator 
1 Cards at noon the day of the event, and tickets to the 
general public open at 6 p.m. 
“Wherever it is he goes, there’s a lot to be 
learned,” Greenberg said.
Amanda Corral, a 19-year-old UF sports management sophomore, said she is excited to attend an event that matches with her ma-jor. 
“He’s deﬁ  nitely known in the sports busi-
ness, so hearing him will be a great opportu-nity,” Corral said. 
Corral has only seen Spurrier from the 
stands of the stadium with 90,000 others. The talk will be a way for her to hear from him up close, she said. 
“I feel like in the auditorium it’ll be a lot 
smaller and you’ll get more out of it,” she said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgFormer UF coach Spurrier announced next Accent speaker
Spurrier
He coached the ‘96 title team
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
KARMA CREAM RE-OPENS
A look inside Karma Cream’s new location, which opened on Thursday afternoon. Hayley Suraci, a 
19-year-old UF art history sophomore, enjoyed the new location on its ﬁ  rst day of business. “They have great food and drinks, and the larger building is really conducive to studying, ” she said.
STUDENTS WILL PAY A FLAT RATE 
DESPITE CREDIT HOURS.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
In the near future, UF students may be able 
to take as many credit hours as they’d like 
without paying an additional fee.
Filed Jan. 11 by Sen. Bill Galvano, Florida 
State Senate Bill 2 would require all 12 state 
universities to charge a ﬂ  at tuition rate, regard-less of the number of credit hours students 
take.
Block tuition would allow students to take 
as many hours as they want, helping them to graduate on time, said Katie Betta, a spokes-person for Senate President Joe Negron.
Negron worked closely with Galvano on 
the bill, Betta said.
“President Negron’s priority is to elevate 
the national reputation of Florida’s university system, the overall goal being ﬂ  exibility for the students,” Betta said.An identical bill was ﬁ  led in Florida’s House 
of Representatives on Jan. 27. If passed, both bills will go into effect July 1.
Each university would develop an individ-
ual plan that best ﬁ  ts its student population, which would later be reviewed and approved by the Florida Board of Governors, Betta said.
At UF, four-year graduation rates are at 67 
percent while six-year graduation rates are at 88 percent, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said.
“We are certainly interested in measures 
to help improve graduation rates, and block tuition is believed to be one way to do that,” Sikes said. “We are considering some options to bring to the legislature.”
Although the details of UF’s block tuition 
have yet to be ﬁ  nalized, student Chloe Flynt likes the idea.
“From my personal point of view, I think 
they should deﬁ  nitely have a base rate,” the 
UF health science sophomore said.
Flynt, 19, said although she hasn’t been 
charged for taking additional credits, she Senate bill proposes one-price tuition for state universitiesBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A week following President Don-
ald Trump’s travel ban, ﬁ  ve UF students are pushing to make UF a 
sanctuary for undocumented Gators.
The petition, published Wednes-
day by Gators for a Sanctuary Cam-pus, aims to collect 5,000 signatures in hopes of persuading UF President Kent Fuchs to take extra steps to pro-tect undocumented students, faculty and staff.
In just a day, the online petition 
has gathered more than 1,000 signa-tures on change.org.
Although the students formed the 
group just after Trump’s inaugura-tion, the recent executive order to ban immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries forced them to take action, group spokesperson 
Christian Tirado said.
The petition, signed by about 1,100 as of press time, asks Presi-
dent Fuchs and Vice President for Student Affairs David Parrott to pro-
tect members of the UF community 
by not sharing their personal infor-mation and immigration status with the U.S. Immigration and Customs enforcement.
The petition also asks they pre-
vent law enforcement agencies from conducting raids on campus and en-courage University Police to not en-
force immigration laws.
As of press time, Fuchs has not 
released an ofﬁ  cial statement about 
the petition or UF being a sanctuary campus, but on Jan. 29, he sent an email to students voicing his sup-port to all international students, faculty and staff. Currently, UF has 167 students, faculty and staff from 
the countries part of the travel ban, 
which bars U.S. entry to citizens of the seven countries — Syria, Iran, Students petitioning for 
UF as sanctuary campus
SEE TUITION,  PAGE 5SEE PETITION,  PAGE 5WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Art from the Heart Art Auction
The Council for Exceptional 
Children and the Gainesville Woman’s Club are hosting the Art from the Heart Art Auction at 
the Gainesville Woman’s Club, 
located at 2809 W. University Ave., on Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is a live and silent art auction benefit-ing students with special needs in Alachua County schools. The auction features the work of lo-cal artists, with drinks and food 
provided by Napolatanos and 
live music. Join us for our 35th year of art and entertainment. Tickets are $25. Purchase tickets in advance by contacting Debra at 352-955-7671, ext. 1624, or Jan at 352-538-3067. Tickets may also be purchased at the door. For more information, 
visit Council For Exceptional 
Children, Gatorland Chapter 1024’s Facebook page.
The Diversity Project
Want to share a story or experi-ence about racial diversity, re-lations or discrimination? The Diversity Project will explore is-
sues of diversity with a focus on 
race and class through storytell-ing and theater. We will provide a safe environment to share your experiences at UF. Your story may be incorporated into a live theat-rical/multimedia performance, which will become a platform for discussion and possible solu-
tions. Students are invited to join 
Tuesday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2102 and Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3310. Faculty and staff are invit-ed Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2315. Please contact Jeffery Pufahl at 
JeffPuf@ufl.edu for more infor-
mation.
Kickin’ it with Cupid / RUB 
EntertainmentWith Valentine’s Day around the corner, come out to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
and make gifts for the special 
people in your life. The first 100 attendees will get the opportu-nity to stuff a bear. At this event you will be able to make hand-made cards while decorating and snacking on sugar cookies. Don’t forget to bring your best friend or significant other so you can test 
your knowledge of each other in  
a fun BFF game.RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Dulcé SloanIn honor of and in partnership with UF Black History Month, Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
is excited to present Dulcé Sloan 
on Thursday from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Dulcé Sloan is a clever, straight-forward comedian and actor and has been doing stand-up comedy for six years. She recently won StandUp NBC in 2015 and was chosen as one of the New Faces 
of Comedy at the Just For Laughs 
Comedy Festival in 2015. She’s appeared as an actress on FOX NFL Sunday's “Riggle’s Picks” and ABC’s “Resurrection.” She has performed on various late-night shows including “Conan” and can be seen at various clubs and venues including the Atlanta 
Improv. For more information 
on UF Black History Month, visit facebook.com/ufl.bhm.
Fulbright PechaKucha
“PechaKucha” is a presenta-tion format in which 20 slides are shown for 20 seconds each. Networking and refresh-
ments will follow presenta-
tions Thursday at 5:30 p.m. at the UF International Center in  the Hub. Presentations will in-clude “Anthropology of Images” by Daniel Barroca, a visiting Fulbrighter from Portugal and doctoral candidate in cultural anthropology; “My Fulbright: 
Eating and Drinking My Way 
to a Master’s Degree” by Claire Friedrichsen, an American Fulbrighter to Italy and doctoral candidate in soil and water sci-ences; and “How to Select Fresh Fish” by Erangi Heenkenda, a visiting Fulbrighter from Sri Lanka and masters candidate in 
fisheries and aquatic sciences. 
Please RSVP at EventBrite.com.
Florida Museum to host frog 
watch workshopFrogs play an important role in food webs, benefit humans by eating pests that transmit disease and act as indicators of an eco-
system’s health. Join the Florida 
Museum of Natural History for a free training workshop Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. that al-lows citizen scientists to help monitor local frog populations. Pre-registration is required and participants must be 10 or older. The museum is partnering with 
the Santa Fe College Teaching 
Zoo for this FrogWatch USA event, a citizen science program of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums. For more infor-mation or to register, visit bit.ly/2hmtPeA or call 352-273-2064.‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with assis-tance from UF’s Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence Education 
and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is producing an em-powerment art show and perfor-mance-art showcase for the semi-annual anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, located at 
2029 NW Sixth St. Artists and 
performers of all styles are wel-come to submit work that evokes themes of recovery, healing from trauma, self-discovery and love. A public display of affection con-test will occur at Superfun! on both days from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a range of art work-
shops and art-making opportuni-
ties such as a public canvas and storytelling exercises. All couples are welcome to participate. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more information.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum
Spend Valentine’s evening at 
the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia! The pro-gram fee includes admission to the “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors” exhibit, special activities and a signature cocktail and dessert bar. The museum is open from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. for this event. 
Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The 
fee is $30 per person or $50 per couple. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Pre-registration is required. For more information or to register visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/valentine-event or call 352-273-2061.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 95
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Jamie Shapiro
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of 120 instrument-
wielding high-schoolers are rais-
ing money to play in the streets of 
Washington, D.C.
Following a selective audi-
tion process, the Gainesville High 
School Hurricane Marching Band was one of eight selected to march in the annual National Cherry 
Blossom Festival Parade in D.C. 
on April 8, band director Bill Pirz-er said.
The band was selected because 
of its championship-winning per-
formance at the Florida March-ing Band Coalition competition in 
2015, where the team placed ﬁ  rst, he said.
Before the band can make the 
trip, though, it must reach a fun-draising goal of $100,000, a formi-dable amount that members have almost met.
So far, the band has raised al-
most $70,000 through large fund-
raisers and donations gathered by 
students, Pirzer said. Each student is expected to raise $550 for the trip.
Steven Brooks, the GHS band 
secretary, said students are excited 
about the trip and the opportunity 
to perform in the nation’s capital.
“With this being an inaugura-
tion year and all the news showing 
the activity in Washington these 
last several weeks, the students will get to see where history is be-ing made,” he said. 
In order to raise the rest of the money for the trip, the band is hosting at least two more fun-draisers over the next few weeks, Brooks said. 
One of the fundraisers is the 
Mile of Quarters, in which stu-dents will attempt to raise $15,840 in quarters.
“To be able to represent our 
school, our town and our state is such an honor,” Pirzer said. “I’m glad to be able to give that to the kids.”High-school band raising $100,000 to march in D.C.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Emma McDavid, a 14-year-old freshman at Gainesville High 
School, plays clarinet during band practice on Tuesday. The band was practicing a piece called “Sounds of Cinema. ”
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Bill Pirzer, the band director at Gainesville High School, conducts the band during practice on Tuesday. The band is trying to raise money to perform and march in the National Cherry Blossom Festival Parade in Washington, D.C.
It was one of 8 marching bands selected4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
After announcing it would close down — 
and later stating it wouldn’t — many mem-
bers of Gainesville’s YMCA  have left, one member said.
The North Central Florida YMCA, located 
at 5201 NW 34th Blvd., announced in Decem-ber that it would be closing due to mounting debt. 
On Monday, after donors pledged about 
$940,000, the organization’s CEO, John Bo-nacci, said it would not close after all.
But for dozens of members, it was too late, 
longtime member Leslie Galloway said. She estimated about 10 percent — or 500 of the 5,000 members — have left.
“Hopefully we get that membership base 
that we lost back,” Galloway, 28, said. Bonacci said there is still a sense of ur-
gency to raise an additional $250,000 to keep Wells Fargo from shutting the YMCA down.
Since the YMCA ﬁ  rst announced it would 
close, a local competitor with a similar senior-citizen program has seen a spike in elderly membership.
Youﬁ  t Health Clubs, located at 3045 SW 
34th St. has seen a 45-person increase in enrollment for its Silver Sneakers program, which offers a health and workout package for senior citizens, said Bryce Neff,  the as-
sistant manager at Youﬁ  t.
Neff said he suspects many new Silver-
Sneakers members made the switch from the 
YMCA.
“I don’t know the exact percentage,” Neff 
said. “But I do know that a few of them that I personally signed up have come from the Y.”YMCA loses members after 
ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  opping about closure
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Come April, UF students will have a new 
place to eat, meet and study together.
Construction on Newell Hall, located 
across the street from the Hub, is on schedule 
to be complete by March and open the follow-
ing month. 
It will cost about $19 million, according 
to a project document. In a project document 
from January 2016, however, the cost was listed as being $16.6 million. 
The building will feature an Au Bon Pain, a 
cafe restaurant chain, project manager Howie Ferguson wrote in an email.
“This building provides something for just 
about everyone,” Ferguson said.
Ferguson said there were some delays with 
the new building, but none impacted the com-pletion date.
Nicholas Rajcoomar, a 19-year-old UF civil 
engineering sophomore, said he looks forward 
to a new place to study.
“I will deﬁ  nitely check it out and most like-
ly go there instead of Marston,” Rajcoomar 
said.
Elsewhere on campus, $2.2 million reno-
vations on the Plaza of the Americas are on track for a Summer completion, UF spokes-person Margot Winick said.
 The renovation will preserve one of cam-
pus’s high-trafﬁ  c areas by having newer, wider walkways so the 100-year-old trees con-tinue to grow without people stepping on their roots, Winick said. Renovations are underway on the eastern half, and construction on the western half should begin in a few weeks.
“This is really going to restore it to a more 
user-friendly and exciting place,” she said.Newell Hall construction on 
schedule for April openingHARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THEY PLAN TO RETURN WITH 
STUDENTS IN FALL 2017.
By Carolina Rodriguez Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Jill Sonke and Trent Williams remember 
Rwanda fondly: the culture, the people, the 
dancing.
In December, the UF faculty members 
visited an indigenous group in the African 
country and danced.
Speciﬁ  cally, they taught members of the Batwa community how to proﬁ  t from their 
dancing  in a country where they have his-torically been viewed as lower class. 
“Art was a way for the Batwa people to 
become more visible and have more eco-nomic opportunity and ultimately raise their health and quality of life,” said Son-ke, the director of UF’s Center for Arts in Medicine.
Longing to return, Sonke and Williams, 
a UF dance and choreography professor, plan to head back in the Fall — and this 
time they’re going to bring along students.Prior to 1994, the Batwa, also known as 
the invisible people, lived in forests and 
hadn’t assimilated into the country’s main culture, Sonke said.
In 2010, she was in Rwanda volunteer-
ing with a different Rwandan community through the UF Center for Arts in Medicine when Batwa members approached her, asking for similar help.
Sonke returned in December with Wil-
liams and four other professional dancers to develop the Batwa’s art and dance skills 
and create ways for them to proﬁ  t from their art, according to a press release.
Of the 10 trips Sonke has taken to 
Rwanda, December was the ﬁ  rst time stu-
dents weren’t able to go. Sonke said she plans for students to travel with her in the Fall to continue practicing with the Batwa dancers. 
Williams said he enjoyed learning the 
Batwa community’s traditional dances while teaching them new techniques.
“I got to see people really living out of 
their (tradition) and living in their voice 
through movement,” Williams said. UF faculty teach dance to indigenous group in Rwanda
SHE SAID SHE ONL Y 
DRANK TWO BEERS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua woman drove 
drunkenly into a ditch Wednes-
day and told police she was dead, Florida Highway Patrol said.
At about 5:26 p.m., Cheryl 
Ann Morris, 54, crashed her black Dodge Intrepid into a ditch at County Road 232 and Northwest 202nd Street, according to an in-cident report. 
When troopers asked her if 
she was injured, she said she was dead, according to the report. Mor-ris told police a silver truck drove 
her off the road. 
Troopers noticed she slurred 
her words and kept repeating her-
self.
One asked if Morris was wear-
ing her seat belt, and she respond-ed, “What, do I look stupid?” as she attempted to fasten it across her lap, according to the report.
She was 
walked to an FHP car and put in the back seat, according to the report. When troop-
ers searched the 
area, they found a small bottle of wine, which a witness said Morris  had in her possession.
Morris said she only drank two 
beers during the evening, accord-ing to the report.
Morris performed poorly on 
ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises and re-fused a breathalyzer test. 
Police arrested her on charges 
of driving under the inﬂ  uence and property damage. She was taken to the Alachua County Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $15,100 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgFHP: Woman drives into 
ditch, says she’s deadIraq, Somalia, Sudan, Libya and 
Yemen — for 90 days, according to Alligator archives.
But Tirado said UF needs to be-
come a sanctuary to ensure all stu-
dents are protected.
“I remain hopeful that we will 
be able to resist the vitriolic attacks 
against immigrants,” the 21-year-old UF political science and history junior said.
Gators for a Sanctuary Campus 
is also planning to ask for support from the City Commission, spe-ciﬁ  cally Mayor Lauren Poe, and to pass a resolution about the sanctu-ary campus in the UF Student Sen-
ate, Tirado said.
Adrian Acuna Higaki, a 21-year-
old UF microbiology and cell sci-
ence junior, signed the petition Thursday after seeing a friend share it on Facebook. 
An immigrant from Peru, he 
became an American citizen after going through the legal process for 
12 years. But he knows others who 
haven’t been as lucky, and students need sanctuary in their universities. 
“Education is a human right,” he 
said. “It’s something you shouldn’t be punished for wanting.”
But others don’t see a sanctuary 
campus as the right option for UF. 
Theodore Dale, 20, said sanc-
tuary campuses and cities suggest they’re above the law. Housing undocumented people is a problem because it goes against legal bound-aries. 
“The problem with this is that 
just because you have an emotion-al-suffering story does not grant you 
status above the law,” the UF mate-
rials science and engineering junior said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org PETITION,  from pg. 11,100 have signed as of press time
knows many people who have. 
“Thirteen is the most that I 
can take,” Flynt said. “But some people, if they’re really school-fo-cused, they should take 15 hours 
and shouldn’t be charged extra for that.”
However, not all students think 
block tuition is a good idea.
Ashley Bennett, 18, said stu-
dents should be focusing on having 
fun in college, not killing them-selves with too much classwork, so taking extra credits shouldn’t be a priority.“In college, you shouldn’t go out 
and party every single night, but just enjoy it while it lasts,” the UF marketing freshman said. “You’ll be able to have a job for the rest of your life.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgTUITION,  from pg. 1If passed, bill would take efect in JulyMorris
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s hour eight in Library West. (Or is it hour nine? You can-
not recall.) Your vision is hazy. You’re on your third cold-brew 
coffee of the night, although by now it’s early morning. Your blue Study Edge notes are littered around, and the student across the table from you groans and plops his head down on his textbook. He is lost. There is no recovery. You know you are next. Frantically, you turn away from your notes, trying to ﬁ  nd anything that’s not Physics 2, and your eyes come across this week’s…
Darts & Laurels
First of all, let’s talk about the literal best thing that’s hap-
pened in the pop culture world this year — that’s right, dear 
reader: Singer Beyonce is pregnant with twins. The announce-
ment was made Wednesday, at ﬁ  rst with an ethereal Instagram post and then with a whole photo shoot of goddess-like photos. 
Seriously, it’s some Renaissance-level artwork. We bestow this 
laurel to Queen Bey for a spotlight of good news amid the chaos and for allowing us a glimpse of her otherworldliness.
In other news, an iconic part of early-2000s childhood, the 
online, kid-friendly multiplayer game “Club Penguin” will be 
shutting down March 29 and will be replaced with “Club Pen-guin Island.” What started as a gateway for most of our inter-net addictions turned into a long-running joke and source for memes, and it is now coming to an end. It seems that all good 
things must come to an end. In fact, an iceberg in the online uni-
verse that players spent over a decade trying to tip ﬁ  nally took the plunge. So an honorary laurel to the sunset hours of “Club Penguin. ” May it rest in peace.
On that note, because we’re salty, a dart to Disney, who 
killed “Club Penguin” and, with the soon-to-be-released “Beauty and the Beast,” released yet another remake. Yes, we 
get it. Remakes sell. But Emma Watson’s just a little out of place in the “Beauty and the Beast” landscape. You’re going to have 
to do a lot more than impressive CGI furniture and backgrounds 
to shake the Hermione Granger out of this Belle. We want to like this retelling of the tale “as old as time,” but we’re hesitant. The other Disney remakes, which have been of older ﬁ  lms, have deﬁ  -nitely beneﬁ  ted from the updated technology and more in-depth storytelling, but “Beauty and the Beast” was so iconic, loved and fully ﬂ  eshed-out already; a remake seems unnecessary. It was, after all, the ﬁ  rst animated ﬁ  lm nominated for an Academy Award for Best Picture. Why try to ﬁ  x what no one asked you to?
The ﬁ  rst round of midterms is approaching quickly, and as 
the libraries become more cluttered, we have one little request. Dear Wi-Fi gods and masters of the internet, for the love of all that is sacred, please ﬁ  x the Marston Science Library Wi-Fi. No-where on campus is the bandwidth perfect, but it seems Marston (ironically right next to the Computer Science and Engineering building) suffers the most. A pity that is, because with its long rows of tables and multiple study rooms, Marston is one of the better places to study. If only the Wi-Fi was up to par and didn’t 
randomly disconnect. We throw a dart to whatever router is 
running the Marston Wi-Fi, in the hopes that it will somehow reset and give us all the bandwidth we deserve.
In more nationally relevant news, on Monday, acting Deputy 
Attorney General Sally Yates was ﬁ  red by President Donald 
Trump for refusing to carry out his travel ban, as she said she  believed it was unlawful. The announcement of her removal happened two minutes after she was informed of it. In the an-nouncement, it was stated that she “betrayed” the Department 
of Justice. The whole notice was a wee bit reminiscent of au-
thoritarian governments but, you know, let’s not focus on that. We’re going to focus on Yates herself and how she followed her conscience at the risk of losing her job, because she cared about her country ﬁ  rst. She is now nominated for the John F. Kennedy Proﬁ  le in Courage Award for standing by her convictions. Our laurel may not be as shiny and special as the courage award, but we will still hand it to Yates, for standing up for what she 
believes in.Government-sponsored art is worth encouraging
For the most part, my political views can be 
summarized by simply saying, “The less government, the better.” This applies to al-
most everything from education to health 
care, but a recent trip to Washington, D.C. 
may have caused a slight shift in that view.
I have mixed feelings about D.C. Having 
spent a considerable amount of time in France, I 
ﬁ  nd the district’s history fascinating and unique 
among all other American cities. Designed by Frenchman Pierre Charles L’Enfant, after being appointed by George Washington himself in 1791, the city 
is one of the few in the U.S. that was carefully laid out be-
fore being built. The inﬂ  uence is impossible to ignore, with the same magniﬁ  cent avenues and chaotic roundabouts as Paris. Situated on a river, populated with buildings no taller than 130 feet and home to the impressively powerful archi-
tecture that only massive governments can create, D.C. and 
Paris both give the impression of a city with purpose.
City design aside, I did not ﬁ  nd myself falling in love 
with D.C. 
Unlike Paris, D.C. lacks vibrant personality and creative 
energy. Politicians and lobbyists roam the streets alongside lost tourists, all walking uptight with a destination in mind. Nobody is seen loaﬁ  ng around in a park or resting by the 
river, such as in Paris. No, Washington, D.C. knows that it’s 
there for a speciﬁ  c reason: to run a country. 
The exception, however, is the gift that is the National 
Gallery of Art. 
It’s a bright and brisk day in December, and all I’m seek-
ing is a place to get warm. I pass the Museum of American History, which has a Space Mountain-caliber line wrapping around it. Several blocks down, I see a museum with no line and learn it’s the National Gallery of Art. As I open the door, 
I begin to take out my wallet and look for the price for ad-
mission. Instead, I simply walk into a silent, almost empty, hallway lined with the works of Monet and Rembrandt.
I look around for a counter to pay but cannot ﬁ  nd one. It takes about two minutes for me to realize that this wonderful museum is actually free. 
Free.
For $0, I spent an entire afternoon enjoying 
the creativity of our species, lost in a labyrinth of 
canvases and sculptures. 
“But who’s paying for this?” I wonder. My 
mind doesn’t want to admit that it is, in fact, the 
government paying for it, because the govern-
ment only gets its money from taxpayers. Even-tually, I reluctantly come to the realization that 
there are, in fact, a few things I would not mind the govern-
ment “helping out” with. Art is one of them.
Creating art is not hard. Being able to sell good art and 
make a living off of it certainly is. The periods of artistic ex-
pansion and growth throughout history have occurred when it was accepted, encouraged and funded by the public. Dur-
ing the Renaissance, wealthy families paid artists to allow 
them to fully devote all of their time and energy toward their craft.
Nowadays, it is nearly impossible to create art full-time. 
I am not calling for the government to simply pay any art-ist who doesn’t want to work, but instead to just help with overall exposure to the arts. Public access to free museums is something nobody should take for granted and is a great 
way to both support artists and inspire new generations. 
Investing in an infrastructure and creating opportunities for artists to sell work will help, too, but overall, as the law teaches, if you encourage something, you will get more of 
it. If the government starts rewarding great artists and their 
works — and starts making said art more accessible — a wonderful positive feedback loop will be initiated. 
No, this would not create thousands of jobs or reduce the 
deﬁ  cit, but I believe the societal beneﬁ  ts of more art would 
far outweigh any of the costs. Who’s going to say no? 
Andrew Hall is a UF management junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7 
I’ll be blunt: Our country is out of whack 
right now, and I’m petrified.
One thing that has caused my fear to 
skyrocket recently is the ignorance that 
is plaguing the nation. President Donald 
Trump has decided to castigate the media by calling organizations he dislikes “fake news” and claiming journalists are “the most dis-honest human beings in the world,” unless they're treating him nicely, of course. With these allegations and labels, Trump has es-sentially ignited the first war of his presidency — a war on the media.
What has been troubling me lately is so 
many people are taking Trump’s words with-out a second thought. I’ve seen Facebook posts spewing out hateful and uninformed claims that the media is “cancer” and that the “dishonest media” is ruining our country. This misconception about the media is spreading like wildfire and leading to the growth of an even less-informed society.
What Americans need to recognize now more than ever is that the president is simply using members of the me-dia industry as scapegoats. Journal-ists are not out to get the president, nor do they deem it acceptable to feed lies to the people of this nation. There are, after all, laws in  place to prevent lies from going unpub-lished. Journalists have a thankless commitment to reporting the truth and exist for no other reasons than to keep the public informed and help make sense of what is happening in the world.
With the signing of Trump’s many severe 
executive orders, the past two weeks have been action-packed and emotionally trying for many Americans.
Members of the media, including those  
who Trump likes, have done their jobs and 
told the public what these orders call for and 
what they mean for the citizens of our nation. They have explored the impacts of these or-ders and done their duties as journalists to dig deep into the issues and find the most interesting and newsworthy stories surrounding them. These journalists have done their jobs.
Unfortunately, as journal-
ists have reported on what many Americans consider to be the ad-verse impacts of Trump’s orders, Trump has called for an all-out rejection of the media. Every nega-tive fact printed or spoken now has 
to be taken with a grain of salt, according to our president. He has warned his constituents 
that the media is out to get him and they can’t 
be trusted. As a result, many Americans have 
started to boycott media sources Trump has deemed untrustworthy.
By alienating the media, Trump himself 
has become the main source of information 
for many citizens. Needless to say, this source 
is a rather biased one. Of course Trump will portray his actions to be nothing short of ge-nius. If people are lead to believe every nega-tive word about Trump is false, he becomes America’s ever-protected golden boy.
It is important to note that some fringe 
outlets are indeed producing fake news and have been for years. But to paint the entire media industry, including well-established, trusted sources like The New York Times or The Washington Post, as bold-faced liars is wholly irresponsible.
People must learn the difference between 
the sketchy websites that pop up on our Facebook feeds and the decades-old media companies that have informed generations 
of readers, including Trump himself. These 
companies are not going to stop producing 
news, and they are here to inform.
I encourage you to keep in mind the undy-
ing integrity of our nation’s journalists and to 
remember that, at this point, they're all we 
have left.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Fridays.
Your failures are never final — unless, 
of course, you failed your final. 
It was this mentality that flooded 
the classes of my freshman year. From the first day of school, a winner-take-
all approach was running rampant with stu-dents who boasted their heavy course loads as much as their perfect GPAs. 
What determined your level of sanity in 
those first few semesters of college was the number of weed-out classes you chose to take in one term. Every college major has a few: the courses that are purposely made difficult to change the minds of hesitant students. Your enrollment in a weed-out class earned you re-spect — but also 30 hours a week of incessant studying, hair-pulling and stress-eating. 
A weed-out class is the truest form of ac-
ademic Darwinism: The weak get dropped while the strong survive. Students are placed in high-pressure situations and exposed to con-densed curricula while the phrase “Keep up, or you’ll fail” rattles their minds. Students who enter college with the goal of becoming the world’s first space-traveling brain surgeon end up with much broader, more tem-pered career aspirations once their first batch of exam grades comes out. But with a tree’s worth of study guides weighing down your back-pack, there’s hardly room for enjoy-ment, let alone a meaningful educa-tional experience.
As students struggle to stay afloat in their 
weed-out courses, fundamental joys of learn-ing are thrown out the window. Those who are just entering the doorway of their respec-tive majors very quickly have the same door slammed in their face. This rude introduction to college stifles the scholastic experience from the get-go, discouraging students from explor-ing their options and pursuing their interests further. According to the National Cen-
ter for Education Statistics, about 80 percent of university students in the U.S. change their major at least once. Many students enter col-lege without a fixed life plan — and rightly so. But to subject first-year students to classes meant to harm, rather than inspire, is fundamental-ly flawed. The pressure of choosing the right path is met with the expec-
tation to perform. Students become martyrs to mathematics and captives to chemistry. 
Perhaps astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson 
put it best: “When Students cheat on exams it’s because our School System values grades more than Students value learning.” The very nature of a weed-out course limits the student’s right to exploration, emphasizing the importance of a passing grade rather than the learning itself.
Until students receive an easier means for 
exploring their academic interests, these weed-out courses will remain in place as the only building blocks for majors. The only option we are left with as students is to work — and work hard. While the studying may be grueling, it will pave the way for future successes. 
My advice to you, dear reader, is to use the 
resources you have at your disposal to ensure your success in the face of failure. Professors sit in their offices waiting for students to come in for help. Take advantage of office hours, tu-toring centers and libraries. The only way to win the war on weed-out classes is to put in the work and be curious. Ask questions when nobody else will.
The nature of the weed-out course is the 
perfect necessary evil, a required roadblock that will ultimately push you to the next lev-el. When all’s said and done, you have to dig through the weeds to get to the garden. 
Max Chesnes is a UF journalism sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.Think twice before painting all media as fake; journalism is all we've got left
In the middle of a stressful term, work hard to smoke those weed-out classes Column
Column
Max Chesnes
opinions@alligator.orgAbigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
KNITTING FRENZY
Elizabeth Webb Wilson, a 21-year-old UF sports management junior, and Amanda Graham, a 19-year-old 
UF journalism freshman, knit together on the Reitz Union North Lawn. They are members of Knitting and Crochet UF. Wilson hopes to donate scarves and hats to children seen by the volunteers at Project Princess.
By Alexa Roma
Alligator Contributing Writer
Valentine Mercury is like any other user of Instagram, 
except he’s a dog.
In pursuit of social-media fame, Valentine’s owner 
has been hoping to take more high-end photographs of 
the  American pit bull terrier.
“Most of our pictures are just me snapping pictures of 
him,” said his owner Amanda Joa.
But on Sunday, Valentine will get his chance to pose 
for a professional photographer as a part of a photo-shoot 
fundraiser to benefit the Alachua County Humane Soci-
ety.
Adam Goldberg, a self-taught pet photographer, will 
be taking photos of dogs, cats and other pets at Swamp 
Head Brewery from 1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. to raise money 
for the shelter.“I try and set myself apart from other photographers,” 
he said. “All my pictures are kind of goofy and silly.”
The 29-year-old used to work for the Humane Society 
of Broward County, Florida, and said he had the idea for 
this fundraiser when he realized he could pair his gift 
of photography with his passion for animals to make a difference.
Of the $100 fee, half of the money raised will go to the 
humane society, Goldberg said.
Joa said she’s excited to have photos of her four-
legged friend. The fee is a small price to pay, she said.
Margot DeConna, the director of development at the 
Alachua County Humane Society, said the money will go 
directly to animal care. The humane society is striving 
for Gainesville to become a no-kill community in 2017.
“Every donation counts, and every donation helps us 
inch closer to that overarching goal,” she said.Photo shoot to fundraise for shelter
Courtesy to the Alligator
Photographer Adam Goldberg captures a pit bull mix puppy licking its lips. Goldberg will snap photos of 
pets at a fundraiser on Sunday to benefit the Alachua County Humane Society.
THE ORGANIZATION 
STARTED IN SPRING.
By Randi Ziegler
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A student club is support-
ing women in their quests to be 
healthier. 
Changing Health Attitudes and 
Actions to Recreate Girls, also 
known as CHAARG, was started 
at UF in Spring. The group, which is not yet an official UF student organization, will hold weekly fit-ness workshops, said Dea Opari, CHAARG’s president.
The group is a national organi-
zation started in 2012 by a former Ohio State University swimmer 
who wanted women to support 
each other through exercise, Opari said. Since then, it has spread to 45 universities.
Opari said the UF group, which 
now has 57 members, will host small group workouts in addition to larger meetings, where everyone exercises together at different loca-tions on campus. Small groups will learn about meal preparation or go on excursions to nature trails.
“Being healthy is way more 
than the amount of calories you 
burn, it’s about creating positiv-
ity in your life in all aspects,” she said.
Jackie Roberts, the organiza-
tion’s secretary, participated in the group’s first large fitness workshop Jan. 17 with Pure Barre Gainesville, a local workout studio. 
Roberts, a health education and 
behavior junior, said she joined the group to hold herself account-able to work out consistently.
“I’m hoping to gain friend-
ships with girls who have interests similar to mine and have a sup-port group behind me who pushes me to be the best I can be,” the 20-year-old said.UF students form group 
to help women exerciseBy Courtney Moberley 
and Alexa Romagnolo
Alligator Contributing Writers
UF and Gainesville are com-
ing together to celebrate Afri-
can-American culture during 
Black History Month.
From Feb. 10 to Feb. 26, 
Gainesville will host events in-
viting residents to learn about 
influential figures in black his-
tory through dramatic perfor-mances and learn about African-American contributions to the city, said Russell Etling, Gaines-
ville’s cultural affairs manager. 
At UF, students will raise their fists to celebrate through events hosted by UF’s Black History 
Month organization, said mar-
keting director Luckso Joacius.
Joacius said UF events are 
centered around the phrase: “I raise my fist because,” which 
lets students complete the sen-
tence to express what they stand for.
He said the theme demon-
strates people opposing injus-
tices.
“People raise their fists be-
cause of different things they 
face on a daily basis,” the 21-year-old UF construction 
management junior said.
Throughout February, events 
will be held almost every day, 
but the largest will be the Big Sean and Lil Yachty concert Feb. 
15 at the O’Connell Center. Etling said Gainesville has 
been working to bring residents together through projects that 
will unveil this month.
He said the home of A. Quinn 
Jones, located at 1013 NW Sev-enth Ave., will open Feb. 26 at 
3 p.m after it has undergone 
renovations. Jones, who died in 1997, was the first principal of Lincoln High School, which 
functioned as an African-Amer-
ican school during segregation.
“It will bring people together 
of all communities in celebra-tion,” Etling said.
Other events include the 
Gainesville Master Chorale’s re-telling of black spirituals Feb. 10 from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. at 
the Historic Thomas Center and 
a concert Feb. 25 from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Depot Park, according to a press release.
Meaghan Sapp, the BHM 
program director, said they’re trying to get students involved in events by co-sponsoring them with GatorNights, other 
black organizations and student 
unions.
She urged students of all 
backgrounds to celebrate the month.
“Never shut yourself off to 
something because it doesn’t in-volve you,” the 20-year-old UF nutitional science junior said. 
“Black history is American his-
tory.” UF, Gainesville to 
celebrate black history all monthFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482Take the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9th
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s ..$50.00  (74.75)
6........... $75.00 (103.50)
6+ .....$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th Street
THE TWO WON A $2,000 GRANT 
TO START THEIR OWN BUSINESS-
ADVISING COMPANY.
By Sophia Carballo 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After facing a “Shark Tank”-like panel 
of judges, two UF faculty members earned 
a $2,000 grant to launch their own busi-
ness.
Natasha Parks and Samara Deary, fam-ily and consumer science agents with UF’s 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, were awarded the grant in January from UF to start their company, which specializes in 
business advising, Parks said. 
They won after competing against 18 
other UF faculty entrepreneurs in a “Shark 
Tank”-style competition hosted by the in-stitute.
The competition was a part of the Ex-
tension Entrepreneurship Program, a three-day entrepreneurial training session, Parks said.For the program’s ﬁ  nale, the two pre-
sented a three-minute business pitch to a panel of judges.
“At the end of it, it was like a ‘Shark 
Tank’ pitch,” Parks said. 
Parks, who works with the institute’s 
Duval County, Florida, extension, said their company, Home Made Entrepreneur, will teach people how to develop business 
plans and marketing strategies for their 
own organizations.
Deary, who works with the institute’s 
Bradford County, Florida, extension, said she and Parks grew closer as they worked on developing their business.
“We’re, like, joined at the hip,” she said.Their company, which should launch in 
May, is for stay-at-home mothers, college students, small farmers and gardening en-thusiasts, Deary said. 
Parks said she’s looking forward to 
launching the company. 
“It’s great that we’re now colleagues 
and we’re able to collaborate on something that we love and share it with others,” Parks said.Inventive UF faculty win entrepreneurial competitionCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
BURRITO  VOYAGE 
The line at Burrito Bros. T aco Co. stretches out the door on Thursday afternoon. After 40 years of 
business, the restaurant will close on Saturday after reporting $300,000 in lost revenues since 2015.
By Harrison O’Keeffe
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The country’s largest ﬂ  ag foot-
ball league is coming to Gainesville 
in April.
National Flag Football, a Michi-
gan-based company that organizes leagues for boys and girls ages 4 to 14, decided to expand north after 
ﬁ  nding success in South Florida, 
said Francis Meram, the company’s 
executive director. 
He said the company saw poten-
tial in Gainesville. Registration for 
the nine-week season ends Feb. 24.
The total cost for the season is 
about $130, which includes an NFL-style jersey for each player and cov-ers the cost of ofﬁ  cials and staff dur-ing each game, he said.  
He said the biggest beneﬁ  t of 
playing youth ﬂ  ag football is learn-ing to play the game skillfully and in a fun, safe environment.“We do feel strongly that it’s not 
necessary to start kids off playing tackle,” he said. “Kids are still able 
to develop technical skills, even 
more so than playing tackle.”
Teams will be arranged based on 
children’s grade levels and schools, 
and games will be played at Possum 
Creek Park, located at 4009 NW 53rd Ave., Meram said. 
Devin Gregory, 22, said he grew 
up playing ﬂ  ag football in Ft. Lauder-
dale, Florida, and continued playing 
as a high-school student at Corner-stone Academy in Gainesville. 
The UF alumnus said playing 
the non-contact version of the sport teaches kids hard work, teamwork and how to accomplish goals, while not risking injury.
“Back then I was envious of kids 
that got to play tackle football,” he said. “Now, I can appreciate how much safer playing ﬂ  ag football was for me.”National ﬂ  ag football 
league comes to cityFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-8-17-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N       2-3-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Good Times Outdoors, Inc. is seeking an
individual for promoting our brands on a
variety of Social media sites and forums.
The position is negotiable as to time
spent onsite and time spent remotely.
The successful candidate will have
experience and knowledge in social media
marketing, a knowledge of outdoor sports, 
boating, hunting and firearms is preferable. 
Interested parties may contact by email at:
doug@core15.com
2-8-17-6-14
***PROMOTERS WANTED***
Seeking health conscious entrepreneurs to 
build an at-home business and sales team 
in a global health and wellness company.
*Must be ready to start now!
*Money Motivated
*Willing to learn
No experience required,
full training provided, flexible hours.
Call 815-557-3209 serious inquiries only.
2-9-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15ALMIGHTY JEHOVAH CREATOR GOD, change my selfish will, to make it one with Thy Divine Will. Cause me to cease all re-bellion against Thee. www.Christ-is-all.us      2-3-1-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/6-2/9 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-6-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/AFFORDABLE CAREER TRAINING!
ONLINE OR ON CAMPUS.Medical Office, Accounting, IT and Administrative Certificate Program Choices. 
CALL FOR ANSWERS 1-888-535-9909
or CLICK learn.Sctrain.edu       2-3-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger & Harder Immediately!     2-3-1-16
Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently & Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed. Free Brochure: 1-800-354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com       2-3-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      2-9-17-10-18
ACROSS
1 Suggests, with “of”
7 Cashbox feature
11 Wagner’s “__
Rheingold”
14 Uses Blue Apron,
say
15 Baseball family
name
16 Space bar
neighbor
17 “Epic fail!”20 Lady Gaga’s “__
It Happens toYou”
21 Presidential
nickname
22 Makeup remover23 Put out25 Like some cheddar28 “Ghostbusters”
actor
30 Shanghai-born
ex-NBA center
31 German : Kopf ::
French : __
32 Does really well
34 U.S. intelligence
org.
36 “I don’t believe a
word!” ... or, the
truth about this
puzzle’s circles
42 Deborah’s “The
King and I” 
co-star
43 Clearly presented45 Removed
49 Nation SE of
Cyprus
51 Item on a chain,
perhaps
52 Electrical backup
supplies
55 One may be
broken
56 Afghanistan’s
national airline
57 Northwest
Passage explorer
59 Word with hole or
holder
60 Two of the three
founders of the
DistilleriaNazionale diSpirito di Vino
64 Bridge action65 Brown family
shade
66 “I’m on board”67 Década division68 Food buyers’
concerns
69 Scary flierDOWN
1 English hunters
2 Polynesian catch3 Unable to
increase
4 Mo. hours5 Christchurch
native
6 Common animal
kingdom tattoosubject
7 Bowler, e.g.8 Cakes go-with9 In a way, in a way
10 One unlikely to
experiment
11 Uses a 
22-Across on, as tears
12 Come-hither
quality
13 Dear18 Hot19 “__ serious?”24 Pantry stack
26 Picks a fight
(with)
27 Civil rights icon
Parks
29 Red __
33 Calculating35 Chip shot path
37 Ripsnorter
38 Bit of Christmas
morning detritus39 Thickening agent40 Flip41 Goes around44 SEC powerhouse,
familiarly
45 Runner’s woe46 Shag, e.g.
47 Part of Q.E.D.
48 Like some court
motions
50 “Feel the __”:
2016 campaignslogan52 Iconic Rio
carnival activity
53 Like
54 Nasser’s
successor
58 Physics units
61 Fight cause62 Mozart’s
birthplace, now:
Abbr.
63 Natural 
resource
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/03/1702/03/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 3, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 18 Personals 23 Rides 25 Lost & Found 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Runner makes prestigious list 
Florida sprinter and jumper Grant Holloway was named to the Bowerman 
Men's Watch List, the United States Track and Field and Cross Country Coaches 
Association announced Thursday. Holloway is one of 10 total and one of two freshman to make the list, which honors the nest runner in NCAA track and ﬁ  eld. Lloydricia Cameron cried over 
not being able to throw a shot put when she was 3. Now, she gets to do it for the Gators. Read the story, pg 15As soon as Florida stepped onto the court against Missouri on Thursday night, the game was already decided. The Tigers, in the midst of a 12-game losing streak, weren’t ready to play.
“We didn’t even jump for the tip,” Missouri coach 
Kim Anderson told reporters after the game.
All together, the Gators dominated in their  93-54 
win over Misery — I mean Missouri — in a game that was decided well before the conclusion of the ﬁ  rst half. 
“We continue to take baby steps in terms of our 
overall maturation,” UF coach Mike White said. “We got better tonight. We defended better than we have all year … (I’m) proud of our maturity and focus.”
But with a combined 22 wins, No. 24 Florida’s last 
three opponents have been awful. The worst of the worst the SEC, and even the Big 12, has to offer. By now, this is well known: Florida suffered a devastating loss to then-sub-.500 Vanderbilt, leaving Mike White desperate to ﬁ  nd the answer to his team’s woes. But what followed was slightly unexpected: a 35-point drubbing of LSU (9-12, 1-8 SEC) and a 32-point beat-down of Oklahoma (8-13, 2-7 Big 12).
Then, Florida (17-5, 7-2 SEC) was unstoppable 
Thursday night in the O’Connell Center, seemingly making every shot, winning every 50-50 ball and rip-ping down every rebound. 
UF shot 45 percent from the ﬁ  eld, forced 13 turn-
overs and swatted seven shots. It also dominated 56-32 on the glass, including 12 boards by 6-foot guard  Despite quality of 
opponents, Gators’ 
play still impressiveMEN'S BASKETBALL
 By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
The net didn’t move. 
KeVaughn Allen’s second three-pointer 
was so on target that no nylon rippled as the ball slipped through the hoop. 
And with the fans in a frenzy, a fuming 
Mike White stomped, yelled and clapped at his players to get back on defense. UF’s coach wasn’t satisﬁ  ed. After all, he only had a 29-point lead. 
“He doesn’t let up,” UF center John 
Egbunu said. “He doesn’t want us to get comfortable.”
No. 24 Florida (17-5, 7-2 SEC) eased 
its way to a 93-54 win over outmatched 
Missouri (5-16, 0-9) on Thursday in the 
O’Connell Center. Florida’s offense started with Chris Chi-
ozza, who earned UF’s fourth triple-double in school history with 12 points, 12 re-bounds and 10 assists. 
White said by the second half, the 
whole team was trying to help Chiozza get his last assist.
“I ﬁ  rst heard it from Chris,” White said. 
“He’s sitting by me, and he said, ‘Coach, you gotta put me back in. I’m gonna get a triple double.’ I said, ‘No you’re not, come on.’”
Despite White’s disbelief, Chiozza got 
back in and recorded UF’s ﬁ  rst triple dou-ble since 2009.
Gators guard Canyon Barry added a 
game-high 17 points on offense and ex-tended his unconventional underhanded free-throw streak to 27. And while the Gators shot 45.5 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld, their defense turned in one of its best performances of the season. 
Florida’s energy and length muzzled 
Missouri’s offense, holding the Tigers to 30.2 percent from the ﬁ  eld, their second-worst shooting night of the season.  
UF’s size advantage wasn’t subtle. The 6-foot-11 Egbunu was the biggest 
player on the ﬂ  oor most of the game, and he was one of ﬁ  ve Gators to haul in mul-tiple offensive rebounds. 
“We were sending (our) three, four 
and ﬁ  ve to the glass every time, so we just know one of us is always gonna get it,” Eg-bunu said.
As a team, Florida won the battle on the 
boards 56 to 32, including 19 points on 18 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When addressing reporters on 
Wednesday, coach Jim McElwain 
said he’d be hiring new assistant coaches “shortly.”
That admission looks to be 
true, because as ﬁ  rst reported by Gridiron Now’s Mike Huguenin, the Gators are set to hire running backs coach JaJuan Seider away from West Virginia, as conﬁ  rmed by the Charleston Gazette-Mail.
McElwain had 
been looking to make new hires 
since before Florida’s bowl game, when defensive coor-dinator Geoff Collins left to be-
come the head coach at Temple. In his absence, Randy Shannon was moved from linebackers coach to interim defensive coordinator, eventually snagging the perma-nent position and leaving his old spot vacant.
UF also needs to replace Mike 
Summers, its former offensive line coach, who left for the same posi-tion at Louisville. So where does Seider come in?
He’ll likely take over for run-
ning backs coach Tim Skipper, who has spent much of his career coaching defense and could take over Shannon’s old spot. 
Assuming the Gators follow 
through on the hiring of Seider, who’s regarded as an excellent recruiter, that leaves the one va-cancy at offensive line coach left to ﬁ  ll. 
Wideout transferring C.J. Worton announced on 
Thursday that he’s transferring from Florida. 
In a tweet, the rising senior 
wideout said he harbored no bad feelings toward UF, but that it was just time to play somewhere else. He said he’ll ﬁ  nish his Spring se-mester studies before transferring. 
A three-star recruit from Mi-
ami, Worton caught 10 passes for 126 yards and two touchdowns in his three seasons at Florida. 
His transfer destination is un-
known. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org Chiozza's triple-double leads UF over Mizzou
 Football notebook: Gators to add assistant coach, lose receiverAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza dribbles during UF's win over Missouri on Thursday. He notched the fourth triple-double in school his-tory.
HERE COMES THE BOONE
Seider
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone199414   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
SOFTBALL
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
  
In 1996, author Linda Ellis pub-
lished a poem titled “The Dash”.
After a radio announcer read the 
poem live on air that same year, it 
received critical acclaim. It led to 
Ellis publishing an entire book sur-rounding the idea, this time called “Living Your Dash: Making Every 
Moment Matter.”
With a message loud and obvi-
ous — to live every single moment 
to its fullest — the 2017 Gators soft-ball team is taking this saying and using it as a guideline for its season.
“Living the dash is our motto 
this year,” junior pitcher Aleshia Ocasio said. “Come in every day and give your best attitude, give your best effort and live the Gator standard.”
With plenty of uncertainty con-
cerning the amount of new and in-experienced players on the roster, living the dash is important for this Florida team.
Departures from five seniors left 
voids in areas previously filled with All-Americans and veterans, and now the team hopes to replenish those holes with youth.
“We’ve got a lot of new faces,” 
coach Tim Walton said. “A lot of people playing in roles that they haven’t played before.”
However, there is optimism 
about whether the team can reach 
the same heights as last year with a 
younger group.
Kelly Barnhill, a sophomore pitcher and 2016 NFCA Freshman of the Year top-three finalist, be-lieves that this group meshes well 
together, which could turn into fu-
ture success on the field.
“Each team has its own person-ality,” Barnhill said. “We have so many different personalities and everyone gets along so well. I think 
we’re going to have a blast just go-
ing out and playing.”
After three previous seasons in which Florida either made it to the National Championship or was ranked No. 1 from the season’s be-ginning, a year in which expecta-tions aren’t quite as lofty allows the team a bit more breathing room.
“Playing with a little bit of a tar-
get, so to speak, on our backs was definitely a different feeling,” Wal-ton said.
But despite youth in certain ar-
eas, the Gators still harness a vet-eran pitching staff. 
The trio of Barnhill, Ocasio and 
senior Delanie Gourley combined for an ERA of 0.93 while striking out opponents a total of 538 times 
last season. 
Both totals are better than either 
of the two previous championship 
campaigns.
With that firepower on the 
mound, the Gators hope to find 
consistency on offense and contin-
ued growth by practicing as hard as possible. It’s a trend they like to call living the dash.
“That’s our thing this year: live 
the dash,” junior first baseman Kayli Kvistad said. “It’s really im-portant to take every day like it’s your last…soak up what’s thrown 
at you day by day.”
 
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.orgGators using unusual motto as motivation ahead of season
GYMNASTICS
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
With All-Americans like Alex McMur-
try and Kennedy Baker on Florida’s roster, 
it’s easy for junior Grace McLaughlin to get overshadowed by her talented team-mates. But while the Gators have been breaking records four meets into the sea-son, McLaughlin has quietly been having a breakout season of her own.
The Allen, Texas, native has competed 
in every meet this season, posting colle-giate bests on the beam (9.875) and bars (9.850) during Florida’s meet again North Carolina on Jan. 20th.
She also has not had a score lower than 
a 9.800 on floor through her first three rou-tines.
“Honestly, I have had really kind of ex-
citement just getting back into things, es-pecially coming back on three events this year,” McLaughlin said on Wednesday. “Getting back on bars is, like, my special-ity. And just kind of having that feeling of touching the bar again and landing is kind of like the first time starting gymnastics again. And it has been kind of a great feel-ing to get back into it.”
As a freshman, McLaughlin competed 
only twice, and once was exhibition.
Last season, she found herself in the 
leadoff spot on floor, and occasionally had a spot in the bars and beam lineups.
But this season has been different. The 
Gators are now consistently depending on her in three different rotations.“I think she has come leaps and bounds 
over the last year,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “She really has dedicated herself in the gym, dedicated herself in dif-ferent ways and challenged herself in ways outside of the gym, which really, I think, has had great results on the competition floor. She definitely has put herself in a position to be successful and I am really pleased and very happy, as I know she is as well.”
Today, McLaughlin and the No. 3 Gators 
will face their hardest challenge yet when they take on No. 6 Alabama in their first SEC road meet in Tuscaloosa. 
While the Gators (4-0, 2-0 SEC) are un-
defeated on the season, the Tide (2-3, 2-2 SEC) are looking for their first home win.
Though they have been on the losing 
end of three meets so far, Alabama’s record doesn’t tell the whole story of its season.
Two of those losses came against the top 
team in the country  — then-No.1 LSU and 
No. 1 Oklahoma — so the Gators aren’t un-derestimating the Crimson Tide, especially not at their home.
“This is a huge SEC rivalry,” Baker said. 
“To go there and get a win would mean a lot. I think that we are definitely ready and we’re ready to prove ourselves against Alabama this weekend.”
Baker, who was the SEC Specialist of 
the Week after her perfect 10 on floor dur-ing last Friday’s meet against Auburn, says this meet is different because of how close she and her teammates are to many of the competitors on the opposite sideline.“It’s kind of ironic because I’m actually 
best friends with the entire ‘Bama team,” Baker said. “There’s a girl who that is liter-ally like my sister there. It’s kind of like, ‘I want you to do really well, but not better than us’. … I still secretly cheer for her, but I cheer for my team louder.”
@LStaff27
lstaff@alligator.org
McLaughlin shining ahead of road test tonight against AlabamaAlligator File Photo 
Aleshia Ocasio (middle) high fives a teammate during Florida’s doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17, 2016, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Grace McLaughlin performs her beam routine during Florida’s win over Kentucky on Jan. 13 in the O’Connell Center. 
MEET INFO:
• What: No. 3 Florida @ No. 6 Alabama
• When: 8:30 p.m. 
• Where to Watch: SEC NetworkDRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Daniel Smithson 
Sports Writer
Lloydricia Cameron was 3 going on 4 the 
ﬁ  rst time she threw the shot. 
The Florida junior thrower, whose ﬁ  rst name 
is the female adaptation of her father’s name, 
Lloyd, said she grew up on a track because her 
mom was a track athlete from Jamaica. 
The Miami native said one day while she 
was 3 and was running around a track, she saw 
a heavy metal ball. 
She wanted to throw it.“I cried about it like day after day after day, 
saying, like, ‘I want to do it. I want to do it,’” Cameron said. 
She said her mother and mother’s friends 
were concerned for her safety and thought she would hurt herself if she threw it, but Camer-on’s tears served as her mother’s reason to let 
her try it. 
So she did, and she wasn't bad for a 3-year-
old. 
“I didn’t have a coach or anything,” Camer-
on said. “It was just me going out there, throw-
ing it, and trying my best, and as I got older, I became more interested… I was taking it more serious than I thought.” 
In high school, Cameron said she still was 
not taught the proper techniques for throw-ing events in track. Her coaches had not been throwers in their careers.
Although Cameron said her coaches tried to 
look up techniques to help her, she developed bad habits. 
However, that didn’t stop her from getting 
the 8.8-pound metal ball in the air. 
“I don’t know how I threw that far, but ev-
ery year I progressed,” Cameron said. 
After placing third or higher in all but ﬁ  ve 
of the 74 meets she competed in from 2012-14 and throwing a high school-best of 49 feet 3 inches in the shot put, she started gaining atten-tion from collegiate recruiters. She earned offers from Florida, FSU, LSU, Purdue and Clemson. 
Cameron said the trust she had in Florida as-
sistant coach Steve Lemke and UF's academics separated the school from the rest. 
“I felt that there was a lot of support shown 
on my visit,” Cameron said.  “I knew that I would be able to be successful in school be-cause I’m really focused on school mostly.” 
When she arrived on campus, she said 
there was work to be done on breaking her bad 
throwing habits and also getting her body into the correct shape to compete in collegiately. 
“When I came here, I was horrible,” she 
said. “I couldn’t do the majority of the Olympic 
lifting because of ﬂ  exibility reasons and just not being introduced to it at a certain age. I came in fresh, and I didn’t know anything.” 
In her freshman season in 2015, Cameron 
threw her season-best mark of 51 feet, 7.75 inches in the shot put for a runner-up spot at the Doc Hale Elite Meet at Virginia Tech and a fourth-place ﬁ  nish at the Tyson Invitational 
at Arkansas. She won her ﬁ  rst collegiate event in the discus throw at the UCF Black and Gold 
Challenge. 
In 2016 as a sophomore, she placed seventh 
in the shot put at the NCAA Outdoor Champi-onships, becoming the ﬁ  rst Gator to score in the shot put at the NCAA Outdoor Championships since 2010.  As for her ﬁ  rst place ﬁ  nishes, Cam-eron won the discus throw titles at the UF Tom Jones Memorial meet and the shot put title at the Power Conference Cardinal & Gold meet at the University of Southern California. For her success in 2016, she was named a USTFCCCA 
Outdoor All-American.
With two wins in the shot put and another 
in the weight throw so far in 2017, Cameron 
said her goal for this season is just to be con-sistent.
She has already reached her season goal of 
qualifying for the NCAA Indoor Championships — something she said she wanted to do after not making it in her freshman and sophomore 
seasons. 
This weekend, Cameron and some fellow 
Florida throwers head to Blacksburg, Virginia, 
to compete in the Doc Hale Elite Meet on Feb. 3-4. She said if she throws further than she did at the Hokie Invitational on Jan. 20, she’ll be happy. 
“That’ll let me know that I actually did work 
on the things I needed to work on, and I’ve 
progressed through this week break that we’ve 
had,” she said. 
Cameron said one thing that people don’t 
understand about throwing events in track and ﬁ  eld is how technical they are. She said from her experience, people think that if you’re big and strong, “you got it.” 
“A lot of people look at it like, ‘Anybody can 
go out there and throw it,’” Cameron said. “It’s 
really not that easy.”
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.orgBORN TO THROW: Cameron craved the shot put since she was a kid 
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Lloydricia Cameron throws the shot put at the 2016 SEC Indoor Track and Field 
Championships on Feb. 26. Cameron has been throwing since she was 3. 
Chris Chiozza, who notched his ﬁ  rst-career triple-double against the Tigers (5-16, 0-9 SEC).
OK, the Gators haven’t played even re-
motely this well against a top tier opponent so far this season — they’re 0-of-4 against currently ranked teams — but that doesn’t mean their recent spurt isn’t impressive.
Because it is.Florida’s wins against LSU and Oklahoma 
were its ﬁ  rst back-to-back, 30-point road wins in program history. And Thursday night’s 39-point demolishing marked the third time in program history were the Gators won three-straight games by at least 30 points. 
“These past three games have gotten us 
into a very good place, which gives us a chance to play well in your next one, wheth-er it be Kentucky or Georgia,” White said. “It gives you a chance as a team to be success-ful.”
Yes, it’s important not to get ahead of our-
selves — despite the temptation. In order to be considered a viable threat, not just in the SEC Tournament, but late into March Mad-ness, Florida needs to perform well against quality, high-ranking opponents (how about against Kentucky?). 
They can’t control who they play, though. 
They’re playing the hand they’ve been dealt, and as of late, they’re playing it very well.
That’s all anyone can ask for.
Ray Boone is a sports writer. His columns 
appear on Fridays. Contact him at rboone@
alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter      @rboone1994.  COLUMN,  from pg. 13
offensive boards. 
Florida found ways to score everywhere it 
looked. Putbacks, free throws and three-point-
ers were falling against a Tigers defense that has yet to beat an SEC team. 
UF began the game with an 18-3 run, and 
Missouri never came within single digits. 
Missouri coach Kim Anderson said Florida 
outworked the Tigers from the start of the game.
“We didn’t even jump on the tip,” Ander-
son said. “So I should’ve known then.”
Devin Robinson also chipped in 9 points 
and a season-high 11 rebounds.
While all eyes are on Florida’s matchup with No. 8 Kentucky on Saturday, Mike White made it clear that UF wouldn’t overlook the 
Tigers on Thursday. 
But Robinson found out that it’s hard not 
to overlook a team when you’re ﬂ  ying 10 feet 
in the air, dunking an alley oop over its crum-bling defense. 
Robinson called the two-handed slam his 
best dunk of the year, but UF has to get ready for a quick turnaround before it hosts Ken-tucky in the O’Connell Center. 
“(On Saturday), we’re gonna have to ﬁ  ght 
through all the bumps and bruises that we got tonight,” Robinson said. “That’s not just any team.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 13UF hosts Kentucky on Saturday16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2017
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
After a 6-1 victory over DePaul Saturday and 4-0 rout 
of FIU, the Gators women’s tennis team is looking to add 
to its body count this weekend. 
Facing No. 22 Southern California today and No. 3 
Pepperdine Saturday, top-ranked Florida will be able to 
evaluate itself after facing its toughest competition of the 
season.
“We’ll learn more once we get to California and once 
we get to the indoors about our absolute level of play,” head coach Roland Thornqvist said. 
Thornqvist believes that this weekend is the best 
preparation for the National Team Indoor Champion-ships next weekend, which will feature North Carolina, Oklahoma State and Georgia. 
The Gators head to California with momentum be-
hind them following their strong start to the season while also traveling with the SEC Freshman of the Week. 
Ingrid Neel was awarded the 
honor on Wednesday after posting a 
combined singles and doubles record of 3-0 to start her collegiate career. Neel will once again join her doubles partner Anna Danilina today. The 
two have been dominant playing the 
No. 2 position in doubles, and they look to continue their success.
“They’re going to better every 
weekend too. Those are two players who love com-ing forward. They just put so much pressure on you,” Thornqvist said. “They can have that immediate impact on a match, where the opening game of a set they just come at you.”
The Gators will need to be able to apply pressure ear-
ly as they face a talented USC team today. The Trojans (3-1) are coming off a sizable 7-0 victory over San Diego State on Wednesday. 
Florida will open its weekend of play against them 
today at 4:30 p.m.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.orgGators face ﬁ  rst 
tough competition today in CaliforniaBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
As Haley Lorenzen watched the ball 
rattle around the rim and into the bas-
ket to begin the third quarter, Florida’s bench exploded with roars and cheers.
The junior forward had been jockey-
ing for position in the low post with de-fender Khaalia Hillsman before receiv-ing a pass from a teammate and nailing a turnaround jump shot, setting off ﬁ  re-
works on the visitor’s sideline.
When the ﬁ  nal buzzer sounded 20 
minutes later, however, the Gators 
weren’t quite as joyful.
Playing at Reed Arena on Thursday 
night, UF fell to Texas A&M 84-76 to re-cord its seventh loss in nine SEC games this season.
Freshman guard Delicia Washing-
ton led Florida (11-11, 2-7 SEC) with 25 points on 12-of-20 shooting from the ﬁ  eld. The Glen St. Mary native also notched ﬁ  ve rebounds and three assists in 30 minutes of action to serve as one of Gators’ only bright spots.
Meanwhile, coming off one of the 
best individual performances in pro-
gram history, Ronni Williams under-
whelmed with nine points — 34 less than she scored on Sunday against the Vanderbilt Commodores. The senior forward shot 33 percent from the ﬂ  oor and committed four personal fouls in the loss.
“She let frustration creep into her 
game a little bit today,” coach Amanda 
Butler said in a video posted to You-
Tube. “She was forcing a little bit, and 
again, A&M forces you to do that.”
The Aggies (16-6, 6-3 SEC) received 
a big performance from Hillsman, who recorded her 22nd double-ﬁ  gure scor-ing outing this year. The junior center tallied 24 points on 8-of-15 shooting while also pulling down 18 rebounds.
Senior forward Taylor Cooper and 
sophomore guard Danni Williams also ﬁ  nished with 16 points each, helping the Aggies secure their second victory over the Gators in 2017.
“A&M is really good,” Butler said. 
“They do a really good job of playing to their strengths and they don’t devi-ate from that… The did a better job of sticking to their plan tonight.”
Florida and Texas A&M were close 
in the opening 20 minutes of action.
The Gators shot 47.4 percent from 
the ﬁ  eld, scoring 24 of their 39 ﬁ  rst-half points in the paint.
Texas A&M, on the other hand, re-
ceived their opportunities at the free-throw line, knocking down 15-of-17 at-tempts from the charity stripe to enter the intermission up by three.
The Aggies began to pull away half-
way through the third quarter, how-ever, when Hillsman led her team on a 9-0 run to take an 11-point lead.
From there, Texas A&M controlled 
the rest of the game, letting Florida get no closer than four points in the ﬁ  nal 15 minutes of play.
“They put themselves into positions 
to succeed,” Butler said. “When you 
don’t guard them well or box them out, 
they’re going to make you pay.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Williams falls to Earth in  Florida’s loss
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Delicia Washington struggles to stay in bounds during Florida’s loss to South 
Carolina on Jan. 8. She led UF in its loss to T exas A&M with 25 points. 
Neel
TOP SCORERS:
Florida Gators (11-11, 2-7 SEC)
• Delicia Washington - 25 points, ﬁ  ve rebounds
• Sydney Morang - 12 points, four three-point ﬁ  eld goals
T exas A&M Aggies (16-6, 6-3 SEC)
• Khaalia Hillsman - 24 points, 18 rebounds
• Danni Williams - 16 points, four reboundsWOMEN’S BASKETBALL WOMEN’S TENNIS