We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators set to host Vandy on 
Saturday
Luke Del Rio will make his ﬁ  rst start of the sea-son following comeback performance over UK,read the story, pg 13. SG Fall 2017 election results 
Inspire won 20 seats, Impact takes 30, pg 3. 
Arab students walk the runway 
The fashion show celebrated Arab culture, pg 5. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 16
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
“Dreamers united will never 
be defeated,” echoed around UF’s campus as students marched in support of those who beneﬁ  t from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
Onlookers stopped in their 
tracks to catch a glimpse of the 
march, which went from the Plaza 
of the Americas to the Reitz Union 
early Thursday afternoon. 
Robert Lemus, the president 
of the Hispanic Student Asso-ciation, said he helped organize 
the rally as a support system for those affected by President Donald 
Trump’s decision to revoke DACA, 
a program that gives undocument-
ed immigrants who came to the 
U.S. as children legal protection. 
“The amount of people out there that came out to support and chant for undocumented students really gave me a warm feeling, 
because it shows that compassion 
and understanding still exist,” Le-
mus said. 
UF Chispas and Students Tak-
ing Action Against Racism also co-organized the rally. 
“This is bringing everyone to-
gether so that we could show sup-
port to the students who might not 
even come out to this event be-
cause they feel that they’re going 
to be targeted,” Lemus said. More than 100 students march across UF to support DACA
Two counter-protesters also demonstrated
SEE DACA,  PAGE 5
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Protesters chant, “Dreamers united will never be defeated, ” on their way to the Reitz Union to stand in 
solidarity to show support for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program students.
HE IS BELIEVED TO HAVE 
MISUSED MORE 
THAN $180,000 IN 
UNIVERSITY FUNDS.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s senior director of Hous-
ing and Residence Education was 
ﬁ  red Monday after he was arrested on charges of grand theft and al-legations of fraud, UF announced Wednesday afternoon.
Azfar Mian, 41, is believed to 
have spent more than $180,000 in university funds, mostly with his UF-issued credit card, for personal use since January 2016. The alleged fraudulent purchases include lunch 
meal reimbursements, furniture for 
his Micanopy home, televisions, seven cell phones and his internet and electricity bills, according to Al-ligator archives.
On Monday, one of ﬁ  ve other 
UF Housing employees believed to be involved, Housing Information Technology worker Kevin Morgan, was cleared by UF, wrote UF spokes-person Janine Sikes in an email. Morgan returned to work Thursday.
Any unpaid wages or other pay 
owed to Mian will be retained by UF to offset debts and/or restitution determined by the audit ofﬁ  ce, ac-cording to Mian’s termination letter.
“Any compensation he would 
have been entitled to is being with-held as part of that restitution,” Sikes said.
Mian made $170,039 a year as 
senior director.
On Sept. 20, Mian’s attorney ﬁ  led 
a not guilty plea and request for a jury trial, according to county court records.Sikes said Mian had worked for 
UF Housing since May 2004.
“We were deeply saddened to 
learn that a trusted leader and man-ager who had been with the uni-versity more than a decade was the subject of such serious charges,” Sikes said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Azfar Mian, UF Housing director, ﬁ  red after arrest Staff Report
Carla Rodriguez spends all day 
waiting for 7 p.m.
That’s the time she and her 
mom, Esther, or “Mami,” set to 
talk on the landline back home in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, every 
night. 
In those few minutes, Rodri-
guez, in Gainesville, gets caught 
up on everything. Low supplies. Hard-to-ﬁ  nd gas. Little water left.
Then the line cuts. Carla Rodri-
guez will call back, but the already weak signal is usually gone after the ﬁ  rst call.
Then she waits until 7 p.m. the 
next day.
“I wish I could talk to her,” the 
29-year-old said.
Rodriguez, an organizer for 
Puerto Rico-based nonproﬁ  t group 
PResente and UF Health employ-
ee, along with UF students and Gainesville businesses, is working to gather donations after Hurri-cane Maria.
The storm left millions in the 
U.S. territory in desperate condi-tion and knocked out 100 percent of the electrical grid, initially leav-ing the entire island without pow-
er, according to The Washington 
Post.
“It’s a way to keep our minds 
occupied,” Rodriguez said of the relief work. “We’re also suffering 
here, too, not hearing from our 
families.” 
***Angel Santiago, a UF applied 
physiology and kinesiology junior, 
said he feels anguished he can’t do 
more.
The president of UF’s Unión de 
Estudiantes Puertorriqueños Acti-
vos set a club goal to raise $1,000. 
His club also set up collection box-Gainesville, UF send 
aid to devastated Puerto Rico 
SEE PUERTO RICO,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 16
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  92° LOW  71°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gay Movie Night — ‘Like You 
Mean It’ 
The Pride Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St., is showing the movie “Like You 
Mean It” on Friday at 7:30 p.m. 
Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to 
cover the cost of snacks.
ReptiDay Gainesville Reptile & 
Exotic Animal Show
ReptiDay is a reptile-themed event Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. with vendors offering rep-tile pets, supplies, feeders, cages and merchandise as well as live animal seminar. The event will be held at the Wyndham Garden Gainesville, located at 2900 SW 
13th St. Tickets are $10 for adults 
and $5 for children ages 5 to 12.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Faculty Member from the  
UF College of Journalism and Communications 
and
Student Member at Large
(unpaid members of the Board of Directors)
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 6.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, October 
9 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on October 26 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the openings of the following:FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police assistant Chief 
Terry Pierce will be the subject of a 
third-party investigation amid alle-gations of unprofessional behavior, GPD conﬁ  rmed Wednesday.
The agency received a complaint 
ﬁ  led against Pierce, and GPD Chief Tony Jones intends to use a third party to look into the allegations, wrote GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. “He is in contact with different 
parties and agencies to determine the most appropriate party to con-
duct this investigation,” Tobias said. 
Tobias would not comment fur-
ther and said all items related to an 
internal investigation are conﬁ  den-tial upon completion, citing Florida law. 
Last Wednesday, Alena Lawson, 
the chief investigator with the Eighth Judicial Circuit public defender’s 
ofﬁ  ce, sent an email to Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe, claiming to have knowledge on incidents that expose Pierce’s behavior. 
Lawson, a retired GPD lieutenant 
and president of the local chapter of National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives, or NOBLE, told Poe she had been contacted by several ofﬁ  cers who recounted re-cent incidents. 
According to the email obtained 
by the Alligator, Pierce made threats to ofﬁ  cers recently and left the room 
slamming the door. On a separate 
occasion, Pierce made inappropriate comments to a female supervisor, Lawson said.
“No one, regardless of rank 
should behave this way and certainly not a member of the command staff that makes decisions about Ofﬁ  cers (sic) careers,” Lawson wrote to Poe.
In the email, Lawson then said 
NOBLE requests an independent, ex-ternal investigation. 
Within hours, Poe responded to 
Lawson saying he is aware of the 
situation but would defer to Chief 
Jones on how to handle the situa-tion. 
“I trust Chief Jones to do whatev-
er is in the best interest of the depart-
ment and the residents it serves,” 
Poe wrote to Lawson in his email. 
Lawson declined to comment, 
and Poe declined to comment fur-ther than what he wrote in the email, citing that he doesn’t want the City Commission interfering with the agency’s internal investigation. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
GPD assistant chief to face external investigationBy Jimena T avel and 
Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writers
In the most contested Student 
Government election since Fall 2015, UF students elected a biparti-san Student Senate.
Both registered parties, Impact 
and Inspire, tried to out-chant each other in the Reitz Union atrium for about ﬁ  ve minutes as they waited for results Wednesday night. At about 10 p.m., Erica Baker, SG’s supervisor of elections, announced that 20 Inspire senators and 29 Impact senators were elected. One Senate seat was tied between two 
Impact senators and will be decided 
by the new Senate on its ﬁ  rst meet-ing Tuesday.
Compared to last Fall, 1,206 
more students voted, according to Alligator archives. Over the two election days, 8,599 ballots were cast compared to 7,393 last Fall. 
As seats were called for Inspire, 
party president Ben Lima jumped up and down, pumping his ﬁ  sts. Im-pact senators stood with their jaws open, stopping to cheer when seats were won for their party. 
Kylie Werk, one of the Impact 
campaign managers, said she was happy with how Impact did. The 
elected senators are “willing and 
ready” to work with Inspire, she said.
Werk said she believes a bipar-
tisan senate will produce the best results because elected ofﬁ  cials will be forced to work together.
“Both Impact and Inspire can-
didates worked hard to ﬁ  ll a seat,” 
Werk said. “I think the campaign 
experience taught every kid here that being in Senate is a privilege.” 
Ryan Emery, an Impact candi-
date who lost his District C seat, said he thinks he would have been elected if more people had voted. “The Student Body is not voting 
as much as it should,” he said. “I think it’s a different case for each person.”
But he doesn’t think online vot-
ing would solve the issue, he said, declining to elaborate further. 
Inspire Party President Ben Lima 
said he was optimistic about work-ing with Impact senators. 
“It was time to rekindle our de-
mocracy, to bring another voice to Student Body that’s organized and that can create debate so that we can move forward together,” Lima said. 
Lima, who won a seat in District D, said even though Inspire won a 
substantial amount of seats, there’s 
still a lot of work to be done.  
District C Inspire candidate Bi-
anka Ramirez lost her seat by one vote.
Although she lost, Ramirez said 
she felt amazing after the election results. She plans to be involved in Inspire Party and said she’s proud 
of the progress they’ve started. 
“I think in order to be successful, 
you have to go through a lot of fail-
ures,” she said. “We still have this movement, we still have this mo-mentum, we still have inspiration; that’s why we’re called Inspire.” 
Bipartisan Student Senate emerges from SG elections  4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
es around campus. Last weekend, 
he drove a truck ﬁ  lled with genera-
tors to Jacksonville to be shipped to 
Puerto Rico.
But Santiago still feels it isn’t 
enough.
“I’m really devastated knowing 
I’m here, and there are a lot of peo-ple suffering out there,” the 20-year-old said. 
Santiago said items shipped to 
Puerto Rico have not been distrib-uted. Tens of thousands of shipping containers with supplies have sat 
unopened in the port of San Juan, 
according to CNN. 
Santiago also said the U.S. gov-
ernment has not done enough to 
help the island. He said the Jones 
Act, an act that limits shipping, 
should have been waived. Then, on 
Thursday, President Donald Trump 
waived the act, according to The 
New York Times. 
Gainesville-based nonproﬁ  t In-
sulin For Life USA, which already 
donated two temperature-sensitive 
shipments of insulin in the past 
month, sent provisions via planes, said Carol Atkinson, the organiza-tion’s director. She said the supplies can’t be left on docks in the port or 
else they become useless.
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
is giving free cinema passes for any 
regular screening through Friday for anyone who donates supplies at the box ofﬁ  ce. 
More than 50 residents have 
donated enough items to cover one ﬂ  oor of the theatre’s staircase, 
including sleeping bags, full boxes 
of clothes and diapers, the Hippo-
drome spokesperson Rachel Jones 
said. 
***To assist the 14 UF students from 
Puerto Rico and one from the U.S. 
Virgin Islands affected by Hurricane 
Maria, UF will offer a waiver that creates effective in-state tuition for 
the 15 students, wrote UF spokes-
person Margot Winick in an email.
Denis Anthony Moreira, a UF 
digital arts and sciences senior, is 
capturing headshots for donations 
to UNICEF and Unidos Por Puerto 
Rico. 
From 1:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on the 
Plaza of the Americas today and 
next Friday, the 22-year-old will 
charge $3 for a headshot and $5 for 
a headshot and a full-body photo-graph.
Moreira said he grew up hear-
ing his mother’s stories about San 
Juan’s mountains. 
“Puerto Rico is my home,” he 
said. “I wasn’t born there, but it 
deﬁ  nitely runs through … my veins and my blood and through my fam-
ily.”  
***
Downtown Gainesville’s Omi’s 
Tavern held a fundraiser Thursday, 
where 25 percent of all sales went 
to PResente’s Hurricane Maria relief 
fund. 
As Laura Vassallo sat inside 
Omi’s, she thought of her home in 
Caracas, Venezuela. 
“I know of necessity,” the 
27-year-old said. “I think for us to help people, who lost everything 
and have no good food and water, 
and need us in the country to give 
anything, it all makes a difference.”
Mi Apa Latin Cafe donated 
$2,000 to relief efforts. Peter Ynigo, 
a co-owner of Mi Apa, hopes it will encourage others to offer support.
Lauren Douma, a Flow Space 
yoga instructor, will teach an hour-long vinyasa yoga class Sunday at 5 
p.m. to collect donations for Puerto 
Rico.
“I can’t even imagine what 
that’s like, knowing that such a 
catastrophic thing has happened in 
a place your family lives and then 
not being able to get in touch with 
them,” she said.
***
Laura Robles-Torres waited three 
days to hear from her parents in San Juan. While sitting in class Friday, her phone ﬁ  nally rang — it was her father, calling from the island. Her family was OK, and her house only 
suffered minor damages. 
Robles-Torres, a 19-year-old UF 
political science sophomore and 
public relations director for UF’s Unión de Estudiantes Puertorrique-
ños Activos, said it’s been exciting 
to see people offering to help. How-ever, she said she’s worried about the island after the attention fades.
She said the country’s infrastruc-
ture was decimated, and there isn’t 
money to rebuild. 
“Since I’ve been alive, Puerto 
Rico doesn’t really get that much at-
tention ever,” she said. “It’s kind of sad that a tragedy has to happen for us to be looked at.” PUERTO RICO,  from pg 115 afected students to get inancial aid
Drop-off locations for supplies are located on campus. Locations 
include Weil Hall, Room 370C; Grinter Hall, Room 123; Academic Research Building in the UF College of Medicine; Electrical and Computer Engineering Building; Cancer and Genetics Research Complex, Room 110; Biomedical Engineering Building, next to the elevator; Chemical Engineering Building, Second Floor; McKnight Brain Institute; Peabody Hall, Hispanic-Latino Affairs ofﬁ  ce in the Reitz Union; and the UF Information Booth.ALL THE DRESSES WERE 
HANDMADE IN PALESTINE.
By Nicolette Perdomo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Adorned in handmade Palestinian beaded 
dresses called thobes, UF students show-
cased Arab culture at a fashion show Thurs-
day.
UF Students for Justice in Palestine host-
ed the fashion show from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
on the Plaza of the Americas.
Sixteen models walked down a red carpet 
displaying their colorful beaded dresses, a variety of deep reds, purples and blues. Mod-els were from all different cultures, said Laila Fakhoury, the treasurer of the club.
Fakhoury, a UF family, youth and com-
munity sciences and philosophy sophomore, said some of the models are Arab or Pales-tinian and brought their own dresses for the 
fashion show.
“The dresses are all going to be from our families,” the 19-year-old said. “They’re go-
ing to be from overseas from actual Pales-tine, handmade from our family.”
At the event, there were also henna tat-
toos, music and a belly-dancing performance.
“We tried to do things that were big with-
in Arabic and Palestinian culture,” Fakhoury said. “We come from a culture that values 
creating their own things.”
Youssef Haddad, a UF associate professor 
of Arabic language and linguistics, brought 
his two daughters, Elena and Aaya, to the event.
“I wanted to take (my daughters) to the 
fashion show to see the culture,” Haddad said. “Two of my students are here also. I wanted them to come to get a taste of the 
things we talk about.”
Fakhoury said the goal of the event was 
for more people to learn about Arab culture 
and to tell students about the organization.
“I want people to submerge within the 
culture and to see the actual beauty of it,” Fakhoury said.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
FINAL POSE
Models gather at the end of a makeshift runway on the Plaza of the Americas following 
a fashion show hosted by UF Students for Justice in Palestine. The show was the organization’s ﬁ  rst event of the Fall semester and showcased traditional Arab clothing.
UF fashion show displays 
Arab, Palestinian cultures
All eyes were on Giancarlo Tejeda, a 
20-year-old undocumented student, as he 
stood in front of the crowd to read a poem.
At 3 years old, Tejeda and his family 
came to the U.S. from Colombia on a visa 
and ended up overstaying.
Tejeda said DACA is part of the reason 
why he could come to UF. He felt it was 
his obligation to support UF’s other DACA students.
“I have to speak out for those who 
don’t have a voice, this population that feels that they have to resort themselves to living in shadows; in fear of prosecution,” the UF biomedical engineering junior said.
As the DACA supporters marched to-
gether, two protesters stood to the sides and shouted, “It’s not personal, it’s poli-cy,” and, “Build the wall,” throughout the rally. 
Kevin Lemos, a 20-year-old UF com-
puter science sophomore, said he is the son of two immigrant parents who both came to the U.S. and gained their citizen-ship through legal means.
His mother is from Brazil, and his fa-
ther is from Peru. 
Lemos, who was one of the counter-
protesters, spoke with students who ap-proached him. He said the U.S. is the greatest country in the world because of liberty and security, and undocumented immigration threatens security.
“People who violate the law in immi-
gration not only violate the security of the country, they’re also putting an unneces-sary burden on the citizens of the coun-try,” Lemos said. 
Tejeda said he was infuriated when he 
ﬁ  rst saw the counter-protesters. 
“I realized later that it was good that 
they were there because the poem that I presented later on was addressed to them, to that population of people,” he said. 
@christina_m18
cmorales@alligator.orgDACA,  from pg 1A ‘dreamer’  UF student spoke THE INCREASE WILL GO 
INTO EFFECT SUNDAY.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents will soon experi-
ence a 5 percent raise in property taxes.
Gainesville City Commission approved 
the increase Sept. 21. The tax will go into 
effect Sunday, and will give the city neces-
sary funding to maintain and enhance its 
services, said city spokesperson Bob Woods.
The money will help buy better gear for 
Gainesville Police and Gainesville Fire Res-cue, match funding for the mental health clinic Meridian Behavioral Healthcare and create a digital services director position, said City Commissioner David Arreola.
“Nobody likes to have to resort to any 
sort of millage increase, but look at what we’re going to be spending it on,” Arreola said. “It’s going to mean better services.”
Arreola said Gainesville’s millage rate, 
which measures how much is owed in prop-erty taxes, is currently one of the lower ones in Florida.
“We were already at such a low place 
with the millage compared to the rest of the state that we felt it was the right increase for this particular time,” he said.
The millage rate will rise from 4.5079 
mills to 4.7474 mills, Woods said.
Craig Carter, a former city commissioner, 
said he isn’t upset by the property tax in-crease as long as it provides a higher quality of living for residents. Carter does warn that the increase could make the city less attrac-tive to outsiders.
“The problem is, at some point you’re 
going to tax yourself out of citizens and 
businesses,” he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org5 percent property tax 
raise will fund city services The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORThe 80/20 rule is, it seems, a fact of life       
In the late 19th century, economist Vilfredo 
Pareto demonstrated in his ﬁ  rst academic paper that, in his native country of Italy, 20 percent of the population owned about 80 
percent of all the land. Pareto then noticed 
the same pattern of distribution in his garden, 
where he found that 20 percent of the pods contained 80 percent of the total peas. Named after Vilfredo himself, the Pareto principle, also known as the 80/20 rule or the law of the vital few, is one of the most widely seen statistical phenom-ena in the world, seemingly evident on both the largest of macro levels (entire country wealth distributions) to the smallest of micro levels (amount of peas in a peapod).
An overarching theme that can be drawn from many of 
the signiﬁ  cant scientiﬁ  c discoveries of the last few centu-ries is that the universe, just like human society, appears to be governed by laws. These laws direct and determine the presence and behavior of all we know and surely a lot that we do not. The Pareto principle is a natural law that can be found in a variety of ﬁ  elds, from science to sports and health care to crime.
Over time, data has been collected that has shown 
traces of the Pareto principle across the world. It has been 
shown that 20 percent of patients in the U.S. use 80 per-
cent of health care resources and that 80 percent of crimes are committed by 20 percent of criminals (the Dunedin Study). It appears that when there is a lot of something, the top ﬁ  fth of the population somehow gets it. But the most evident (and discussed) application, I believe, is in economics, speciﬁ  cally in wealth distribution.
In a recent lecture, Dr. Jordan Peterson discussed the 
Pareto principle and a similar phenomenon known as the Matthew effect, which is the idea that “the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.” Peterson connected these phe-nomena to their possible biblical origins, citing Matthew 13:12 (“Whoever has will be given more, and they will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them”).
In his lecture, Peterson makes two very inter-
esting points about the distribution. The ﬁ  rst is that the phenomenon applies not just to money 
or other tangible assets, but apparently even to 
intangibles, such as creativity. Artists already achieving success in their medium often tend to continue their success. It’s why there are mil-lions of aspiring musicians on SoundCloud, but only a few headlining spots at Lollapalooza ev-
ery August. Even these spots are often revisited multiple times by the same artists, achieving what appears to be perpetual success.
The second point Peterson makes is that most of the 
overall wealth ends up in a few hands, however, it is the proportion that remains the same, not the speciﬁ  c people in the 20 percent. Peterson states it is not the same 20 percent of people holding onto 80 percent of wealth for-ever, but it’s instead an ever-changing group of individu-als within that top ﬁ  fth.
Is such a distribution of resources and wealth complete-
ly fair? No, it’s not, but I am not sure there is anything a 
country could do to change it, at least in a way that would 
beneﬁ  t all members in the long term. The 80/20 rule pro-
vides useful strategic direction to many businesses, some 
of which live by the rule that 80 percent of revenues come from 20 percent of customers. When applied in this con-text, it makes sense that the most loyal and consistent customers provide the most revenue, but when applied to macro-level economics, one might scream something vague about systemic inequity or “the system.”
If such a phenomenon is found on a level as small as 
individual peapods, what makes us think we will be able to change it? It appears this phenomenon permeates all levels of existence, woven into the fabric of our world. 
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.You ﬁ  nally make it back to your apartment after what feels 
like the longest day of your life. Between classes, meetings and 
your third Study Edge review of the week, you want nothing 
more than to plop down on the couch with a glass of wine and 
the fuzziest of fuzzy blankets.
After changing into your oldest and most worn-in sweat-
pants and the UF class of 2019 shirt you wouldn’t dare wear 
in public, you plant yourself on the sofa and start scrolling 
through Netﬂ  ix. After deciding you’ve already watched ev-erything worth watching, you decide your best option is to rewatch “House of Cards” for the fourth time since its release.
As the opening credits of the pilot episode come to a close, 
you realize something is a little different. Your dazed mind watches Frank Underwood turn toward the camera in an oh-so-dramatic manner. You expect him to say the same thing he has the three other times you’ve seen this episode, but instead 
he says:
Darts & Laurels
As we are sure most of you know, the Fall 2017 Student 
Government election came to a close Wednesday night. 
Shockingly enough, our ﬁ  rst laurel of the week goes to the 
results of the election. 
For the ﬁ  rst time in a while, the Student Body elected a 
bipartisan senate. The ﬁ  nal tally left us with 20 senators from 
Inspire Party and 30 senators from Impact Party (one position 
was a tie, but since it was between two Impact candidates, 
Impact will get the seat). Since there are still 50 senators who 
were elected in Spring, most from Impact, Inspire is still very much outnumbered in Senate. But this can still bring a bright-
er future to SG. With representation from two parties, senators 
will hopefully start to work together. At least there will be some debate now and then. 
Unfortunately, with most laurels comes a dart, and the SG 
election this year was no different. Although we saw a slight 
increase in voter turnout by 1,206 votes, that still means only 
8,599 ballots were cast over the course of two days of voting. On a campus of more than 52,000 students, this means that only about 16.5 percent of UF students voted. 
Our question is: Why? We are lucky enough to get the op-
portunity to have a say in the future of our campus and our school, so why not put that privilege to good use? The unim-pressive voter turnout this year was not unexpected, but it was still disappointing. We would like to believe that more 
people would vote if an online system were put in place with-
out being rescinded a few months later by the Supreme Court, but we digress. Regardless, we award the low voter turnout  
our ﬁ  rst dart of the week.
Meanwhile, Puerto Rico has been hit with constant darts 
over the past few weeks due to Hurricane Maria. As of Thurs-day, millions were still without power and almost half of the island didn’t have running water. Most of the hospitals on the island aren’t up and running, and citizens are struggling to 
get by with limited resources. The impact of yet another hur-
ricane on Puerto Rico and the slow response from the U.S. government receive our next dart.
Our last laurel is really out of this world (sorry, we had 
to). It was released Wednesday that the U.S. and Russia have agreed to team up to complete a NASA-led program to build the ﬁ  rst lunar space station. The station is part of a long-term project to send people to Mars. Are we getting closer to a “The 
Jetsons”-style future? Only time will tell. Either way, the 
prospect of sending people to Mars in the near future is deﬁ  nitely worthy of a laurel.
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
I’m going to sound like a very 
stereotypical college-age 
young woman (college-age 
English major speciﬁ  cally) 
and talk about the scene 
in  Sylvia Plath's “The Bell Jar” where Esther is lying beneath a 
ﬁ  g tree. Here, she imagines that 
each ﬁ  g represents an imagined future — she sees a famous edi-tor, a poet, a housewife — and she cannot make up her mind as to which ﬁ  g to pluck, 
since choosing one means losing the rest, 
and then they all begin to shrivel up, and it is simply too late.
I feel like that now.
I want to get a master of ﬁ  ne arts in 
creative writing. I want to write for video 
games. I want to get my Ph.D. in English literature. I want to teach high school Eng-lish. I want to travel the world. I want to 
make a ton of money in some software en-
gineering job. I want to get married one day and have kids. I never want to get married and want to live alone in some 
studio apartment and have a string of 
epic romances which will be chronicled in some novel with a protagonist who is basi-cally me but with a slightly different name.
I’m sitting underneath that ﬁ  g tree now, 
and it is very easy to feel like my inde-cision is costing me — I should’ve taken more literature classes, gotten a more spe-cialized internship, taken more writing 
classes, taken less writing classes, taken a 
more useful foreign language, done a mil-lion things I didn’t do. For that, all of these ﬁ  gs may start falling before I even have the chance to shimmy up the branch.
There are people out there, usually ones 
who are loud and proud on social media, who have known they wanted to be a pe-diatric cardiologist since the age of nine; a 
specialist in a speciﬁ  c type of lichen only 
found in Alaska since their ﬁ  rst botany class; or a programmer in a snazzy Silicon Valley startup since they got their ﬁ  rst per-sonal laptop. I envy these peo-ple. There’s not a single thing I’ve ever looked at and decided 
fully that was what I wanted. I 
wanted to be an astronaut when I was nine, and then I wanted to be an architect all through mid-dle school. When I was apply-
ing for college, I was so sure I 
would go into zoology, and now 
here I am with a mismatch of majors and no deﬁ  nite idea of what my next move is.
Indecision is more common than we 
think. It may appear otherwise by the con-ﬁ  dent parents and family friends slapping us on the back and telling us they knew what they wanted right after high school. 
It may appear otherwise from friends on 
social media posting about how they are one step closer to their goal of becoming opera singers, botanists or archaeologists. 
There are a lot of us who just don’t know. 
There are a lot of us who, to quote Sylvia Plath, “want to be everything.” As a result, sometimes we feel like we’re nothing.
But to everyone in this situation, un-
able to decide what they want, sitting un-der that ﬁ  g tree and watching — you’re not alone. You’ve never been alone. Our parents, no matter how sure of themselves 
they are now, were probably in this spot 
once upon a time. We don’t like talking about this because, as a society, we focus on assurance and conﬁ  dence.
There’s no magic solution to this. I 
wish there was, but there isn't because it’s normal. We should talk about it more — about how it’s OK not to know, how it’s OK to try something and realize it isn’t go-
ing to work and pick yourself up and try 
again. The important thing is that we do try, and we do pick ourselves up.
Petrana Radulovic is an English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.Under the fig tree: Not knowing 
what you want in life is normal
Baseball may be the Amer-
ican pastime, but it is no secret our football play-
ers are the ones who 
are treated like the real 
heroes. Seriously, more than 30 million viewers tune in every 
week to worship by screen and 
watch their favorite teams play on Sundays.
This year, football is not the 
only thing fans are watching. Now, to 
protest against racism and discrimination, 
athletes are kneeling during the national anthem to make a point. 
However, freedom has nothing to do 
with making a statement. I’m looking at you, NFL kneelers.
If you really want to make headlines, 
turn the halftime show into an equal-ity speech seminar or sit literally at any 
other time. If you choose wisely, you will 
get noticed, and no one will even debate whether your cause is just. Instead, you’ll simply be right because there will be no 
room to misinterpret your message, as you 
would still be standing during the national anthem.  
Even though you may disagree with 
U.S. policies or hate the president, or even 
hate all of the American population, you 
cannot disrespect America. After all, we are one nation, no matter how divided things may seem.
If we cannot agree on honoring our sol-
diers on the very soil we stand, then we will never be able to agree on anything at all, and all you protesters might as well just quit while you are ahead. While 
whether you like the country we live in 
now is up for debate, it is not optional to ignore the soldiers who died for it.
Sisters, fathers, aunts, brothers, cous-
ins and friends have died for you to have the right to stand up for what you believe in. I’m not staying you shouldn’t protest, but you should consider where and when you decide to make a state-ment. Those soldiers were not just making a statement when 
they signed their contracts and 
left their homes — they were making a commitment. Their commitment is one to honor the 
country, to ﬁ  ght for their coun-
try and to serve the millions of people in it. They did not get the option to sit this one out, 
and neither should you, regardless of your 
justiﬁ  cation. The bottom line is, no matter 
how right you think you are when you’re disrespecting the ﬂ  ag, you’re wrong, and that’s that.
If you actually want to make this coun-
try a better place, it starts with you.
If you want people to be better, you 
should be a better American. You should stand for the national anthem. You should 
put your hand over your heart, the way so 
many people do when their loved ones do not come home. You should embody the Pledge of Allegiance and pledge to be the 
best citizen this country has ever seen. Not 
until then will things change.
After all, haven’t you heard “be the 
change that you wish to see in the world?” Do you want your children sitting during 
the national anthem, while you remember 
all the things you did for America? I doubt it. So, set an example, and get on your feet.
While you harp on all the privileges you 
don’t get to have, do not forget you still have the biggest one — to be an American.
We are the greatest nation in the world. 
We are the land of the free. We are the home of the brave. Let’s remember who 
the real heroes are, stand for the national 
anthem and exercise our right to protest appropriately, without dishonoring the very country that granted us freedom in 
the ﬁ  rst place.
Victoria Fortier is a UF journalism sopho-
more. Her column appears on Fridays.It's time to stop kneeling during 
the national anthem
Victoria 
Fortier
opinions@alligator.org
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgColumn Column
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gatorsBy Noelle Kough
Alligator Contributing Writer
Johncarlo Cerna wants to help 
computer science students succeed 
during their ﬁ  rst year at UF. 
Cerna, a UF computer science 
engineering sophomore, said he re-
started a mentorship program called 
First Time Programmers to equip computer science engineering stu-dents with resources during their ﬁ  rst year at college. 
The club will hold its ﬁ  rst meet-
ing Friday at 5 p.m. in the Computer Science and Engineering building’s Fishbowl, he said.
Cerna said as a freshman, the en-
gineering advising center paired him with a chemical engineer upperclass-man who was unable to help Cerna navigate computer science classes.“Freshmen need a lifeline, not 
only about classes but about the software world as a whole,” the 
19-year-old said.
Freshmen may not know how 
to use their resources, said Michael 
Smith, a UF computer science engi-neering junior.
“The university provides tutor-
ing and ofﬁ  ce hours,” the 20-year-old said. “Though I had all of these resources, I did not utilize them enough as an inexperienced fresh-man.”
Cerna recruited mentors from the 
UF chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery and spoke to freshman classes to encourage stu-dents to apply.
The program currently has 25 
mentors. After receiving more than 70 applications for mentees, 30 men-tees were picked to be part of the program.
Mentors were selected for their 
experience at software companies, Cerna said.
“Throughout the semester, the 
pairs will work on setting goals, in-ternship applications, how to study and resumes,” Cerna said. “We want to help freshmen achieve their goals.”
UF engineering students launch mentorship program
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A homeless man was arrested Wednesday 
morning after he sexually battered a mentally disabled woman in a McDonald’s parking lot, Gainesville Police said. 
On Sept. 19, Danny Dee Underwood, 34, ap-
proached the victim’s car, which was parked at McDonald’s, located at 3826 SW 40th Blvd., at about midnight. Underwood walked up to the car and kissed the victim on the cheek, accord-ing to the report. 
Underwood got in the driver’s seat of the car 
and began touching the victim’s breasts, kissing her and digitally penetrating her. Underwood held the victim down by sitting on her legs, ac-
cording to the report.
Underwood attempted to force the victim to perform oral sex on him, but the victim told him 
to stop multiple times, according to the report. Police said Underwood grabbed the victim’s 
hands and pinned her inside the car while he 
kissed her.
He eventually got back in the driver’s seat of 
the car and fell asleep. When the victim’s father returned to the car and confronted him, Under-wood apologized and left, according to the re-port.
Police said Underwood told them the victim 
had only kissed him on the cheek outside the 
car, and later Underwood changed his story to 
say he had been in the car but the sexual acts were consensual. 
Underwood was arrested on a charge of sex-
ual battery. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $100,000 bond. GPD: Man batters disabled woman
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Three people were arrested Wednesday 
after an ofﬁ  cer found 51 fraudulent credit cards inside their car, Gainesville Police said.
Jael Diaz Morejon, 34, of Miami; Ser-
gio Rodriguez Sanﬁ  el, 30, of Colorado; and Grettea Dominguez Mendez, 23, of Tampa were pulled over on Interstate 75 at about 2:36 p.m. for a tinted windows infraction, according to an arrest report.
The ofﬁ  cer noticed two large bundles of 
cash in rubber bands on the front passen-ger’s ﬂ  oorboard and in the center console area. While the ofﬁ  cer was writing a warn-ing, Rodriguez Sanﬁ  el, who was driving the car, spontaneously told the ofﬁ  cer he could search his car, according to the report.
The ofﬁ  cer found a credit card re-encod-
er, gas pump keys, ledgers, a laptop, USB cables, fraudulent credit cards and large amounts of cash, according to the report.
Dominguez Mendez told police the equip-
ment was hers, according to the report. She said she used the laptop for fraud and the money found by police was acquired from fraudulent credit card use, according to the report.
Dominguez Mendez was arrested on 
charges of trafﬁ  cking in counterfeit credit cards, fraudulent use of a credit card and possession of a scanning device to defraud. Rodriguez Sanﬁ  el and Diaz Morejon were ar-rested on a charge of possessing counterfeit 
credit cards.
The three remain in the Alachua County 
Jail, as of press time, in lieu of a combined 
bond of $1,800,000.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
GPD ﬁ  nds 51 fraudulent credit cards in car, three arrestedBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is searching for a man 
who was seen masturbating at a public li-brary downtown Wednesday afternoon.
The man was at the Alachua County 
Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. 
University Ave., at about 3:30 p.m., wrote 
GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. A witness told police the man was looking through a hole in a book at two women sitting at a nearby desk while hold-ing his penis in the other hand and mastur-bating, Tobias said. 
After he realized he had been seen by a witness, the man left. The witness told police the man was a black male and de-scribed him as about 6 feet tall and 30 to 
50 years old with a “pudgy” stomach. The 
witness also said the man had short hair, no facial hair and was wearing a white T-shirt, jean shorts and black shoes, Tobias said. 
Ofﬁ  cers are checking local contact re-
cords and sexual offenders in the area in an attempt to identify the subject based on his description. GPD has also increased patrol at the library, Tobias said. 
Investigators are asking anyone with 
information regarding the incident or pos-sible suspect to call GPD at 352-955-1818 or Crime Stoppers at 352-372-STOP.GPD searching for man seen 
masturbating in libraryFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
PHYSICAL PLANT IS NOW
FacilitiesServices.ufl.eduPREEMINENT FACILITIES ARE VITAL  
 FOR A PREEMINENT UNIVERSITY.
We’re moving UF forward, 
with every step you take.New utility upgrades installed under Gale Lemerand 
Drive over the summer will soon support dozens of buildings for years to come, including the head-quarters of the New Engineer — at the Herbert Wertheim Laboratory for Engineering Excellence.Our utilities teams are helping transform the heart of campus.Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Is taking a knee during the national anthem strictly about the First Amendment, or is it about something more? Read Ethan Bauer's column, pg. 14. T ebow to join Florida Sports Hall of Fame
Former Gators quarterback Tim T ebow is one of ﬁ  ve honorees of the hall's 
2017 class. Other inductees include former FSU running back Warrick Dunn, former Atlanta Braves star Chipper Jones, former PGA T our commis-
sioner Tim Finchem, and former LPGA pro Colleen Walker. By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio has seen a lot from the sidelines. 
He spent 2013 as a redshirt walk-on at Ala-
bama, watching his team contend for a national championship until a “kick six” sent Auburn to the title game instead. 
He spent 2014 as backup at Oregon State, 
playing in just three games for a team that ﬁ  n-ished 5-7.
He spent 2015 at Florida with another red-
shirt, watching freshman quarterback Will Gri-er remind Gators fans what an offense in The Swamp looks like. 
Then he got his chance in 2016, and in his 
third game as UF’s starter, he sustained a knee 
injury that kept him on the sidelines for two 
more games. After coming back and playing against Missouri and Georgia, he took a hit to his non throwing shoulder in a loss at Arkansas that ended his season.
“There was a time where it was a question if 
he was going to play again,” UF coach Jim McEl-wain said.
Now, after watching redshirt freshman Feleipe 
Franks start in Florida’s ﬁ  rst three games, Del Rio gets his old job back this weekend as the No. 21 Gators (2-1, 2-0 SEC) take on Vanderbilt (3-1, 0-1 SEC) Saturday at noon. 
Del Rio brings with him a 5-1 record as a start-
er, a depth of knowledge at the line of scrimmage 
and momentum from leading the Gators to a sec-
ond-half, come-from-behind victory at Kentucky last weekend. It’s an unlikely journey consider-ing both Franks and Notre Dame transfer Malik Zaire came into the year ahead of Del Rio on the depth chart.
“I never really looked at him as third-string,” 
McElwain said. “He’s a guy that obviously had some injuries. Had some shoulders worked on,  Del Rio to make ﬁ  rst start against Vanderbilt
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio will start against Vanderbilt on Saturday, one game after he came in to 
replace Feleipe Franks and led the Gators to a 28-27 win at Kentucky.
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
In its ﬁ  rst two games of the 
2017 season, Florida showed a slight regress in its offensive abili-ties following a nearly nine-month hiatus from collegiate play. But now, a solid nine games into the season, the Gators are stepping up and proving why their offense in 2016 wasn’t a ﬂ  uke.
Last year, the Gators led the 
nation in hitting percentage and held a top-10 position in kills and assists per set. Led by then-senior Alex Holston and current senior Rhamat Alhassan, the team had one of the best seasons in pro-gram history on the offensive side of the net.
This year, after its slow start against Texas and Nebraska open-ing weekend, the team has started to click on offense again with the second-best hitting percentage in the SEC and two top-ﬁ  ve hitters in the conference, sophomore Ra-chael Kramer and Alhassan, sit-ting ﬁ  rst and ﬁ  fth overall, respec-tively.
Florida has also been able to 
kill the ball at a higher rate than its opponents, putting more shots into play and committing fewer errors on less attempts than its counterparts.
And going into its second SEC 
game of the season, the ball is starting to ﬁ  nd those empty spots on the hardwood, leading to more points as Florida gets set to take on Tennessee today and LSU on Sunday.“We don’t want to just get 
through games,” senior Carli Sny-der said. “We want to thrive in them.”
Thriving is what the Gators 
have done. Florida only lost one set in its six games before playing the Razorbacks on Sunday. In that stretch, UF ﬂ  aunted its offensive capabilities — along with its efﬁ  -cient play on defense — maintain-ing a hitting percentage over .300.
After the ﬁ  ve-set thriller in Fay-
etteville, coach Mary Wise is mak-ing sure her team doesn’t over-look its opponents going into the weekend and keep it focused on the teams visiting the O’Connell Center.
“Tennessee is going to be well 
prepared,” Wise said on Wednes-day. “They’re a very well-coached team and they run and use a huge roster… What you see is they’re more seasoned than a year ago.”
As for Florida’s other oppo-
nent, the Tigers will come into Gainesville on Sunday after play-ing at South Carolina just two days prior. Tennessee and LSU come into their respective games with a 1-1 record against SEC op-ponents this season.
“We play two good teams com-
ing up this weekend, so it’s nice to go ‘Oh, we’re playing really good teams,’” Alhassan said. “I think Kentucky is ranked, what, like 10th, so having (good teams) in our conference just helps us in the long run.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org 
 UF volleyball to face Tennessee tonight at 7What a week it’s been for the Florida 
Gators.
Luke Del Rio was tabbed UF’s new 
starting quarterback on Monday after 
leading the team to a comeback victory 
over Kentucky.
CeCe Jefferson was named SEC De-
fensive Player of the Week following his 
1.5-sack performance against the Wild-cats.
Oh yeah, and Kadeem Telfort really, 
really likes junk food, according to Uni-versity Police.
Telfort, a freshman offensive lineman 
from Miami, was one of nine Gators to receive recommended third-degree felonies from UPD on Monday after the group made a series of transactions us-ing stolen credit card information, ac-cording to a sworn complaint.
Most of the players bought MacBook 
Pros, iPads and Beats headphones. But Telfort had his eyes set on much, much 
more.
Police say the 318-pounder placed 
numerous orders to a local food delivery 
site, 352delivery.com, and purchased everything from the sweet deliciousness of Gummi Worms and Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups to the salty scrumptiousness of Chester’s Hot Fries and Funyuns.
Clearly he had his priorities straight.
But, with Telfort’s sworn complaint 
coming to light this week, a very im-
portant question needs to be answered. Which snack should you order from 352delivery.com using stolen credit card information: Chester’s Hot Fries or Gum-mi Worms?
Assistant sports editor Dylan Dixon 
and sports writer Ian Cohen debate the 
hot topic here.
 
You should order Chester's Hot 
fries because...
Who doesn't love the tantalizing sen-
sation of ﬂ  aming hot cornmeal plaster-ing their tongue with artiﬁ  cial ﬂ  avors and food additives?
Absolutely nobody. It's f------ delight-
ful.
Chester's Hot Fries are the quintes-
sential snack for any person on any oc-cassion, anywhere, at any time.
If I had a dollar for every time I 
said to myself, 'Wow, I could really go PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN / 850 AM
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15VS.14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients
• Musicians/Bands  
  WANTED
• Pavilion available for  
  group rental
• 18 miles to UF Campus
17500 NE US Highway 301
Waldo, FL 32694
352-468-3988
Have you been 
diagnosed with 
TMD (TMJ) or 
have experienced 
facial pain for at 
least 3 months?
•In this study, you will 
be randomly assigned to reciev e either study 
drug or placebo to determine if your TMD pain lessens.
•The drug being used 
•The drug being used 
for this study is approv ed by the Food 
and Drug Administration for other health conditions.
•The study requires 
•The study requires 
you to come visit our clinic for 6 visits for over a period of 12-15 
weeks.  Each visit will 
last approximately 2-4 hours.
For more information please 
contact:
352-273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
Go ahead and look away for a second. 
Pause. Breathe. Relax. You’re going to need 
a clear head and a clearer conscience for this. Now, I want you to grab your phone, go on Twitter, type “knee” into the search bar and 
scroll through what pops up. 
Isn’t it amazing a word that saves us from 
saying “the joint between the thigh and lower 
leg” every time we need to refer to that part of our anatomy can create so much passion? So much controversy? So much rage? Here, for example, is the ﬁ  rst thing I found just by typing in that word, courtesy of @BreeNew-some: “Here again, folks booed a team tak-
ing a knee even tho it didn’t happen during 
anthem playing. BECAUSE THEIR ANGER IS NOT ABOUT THE ANTHEM.”
The context of that tweet isn’t important. 
It’s just meant to show how emotional people get over the idea of athletes kneeling before sporting events, which the athletes say brings awareness to issues of police brutality and racism, while their opponents say it disre-
spects the military and the country. 
I used the word opponents deliberately. 
These aren’t merely detractors. These aren’t 
folks with small disagreements. Whichever side of this ideological fence you’re on, there’s no room for nuance. The athletes are either traitorous disgraces who should be ﬁ  red, or they’re heroic megaliths of modern society. And interest-ingly, both sides like to use the First Amendment to make their cases. 
On the pro-athlete side, the First 
Amendment gives the kneelers freedom of speech to use how they please. On the anti-athlete side, the First Amendment is protected by our military, and we should show our soldiers -- and, by extension, the First Amendment -- respect by standing for the an-them. 
Either way, that’s the incorrect way to 
have this discussion. This, of course, assumes a discussion of this topic is worth having. Some on both sides probably disagree. It’s just too obvious to talk about it. I, however, prefer a dialogue about an issue so divisive, so polarizing and important. 
With that out of the way, this argument 
has nothing to do with the First Amendment, 
legally speaking. Freedom of speech is meant 
to protect people from being persecuted for speaking out against the government. Barring a constitutional crisis the level of which this country has never seen, Colin Kaepernick isn’t headed to prison for his kneeling, nor are his fellow kneelers. This just isn’t a free speech issue in the legal sense. And that is exactly why I argue using the First Amendment is the wrong way to have this conversation. 
When examining the ethical 
implications of kneeling for the an-them, it shouldn’t be about what’s legal and what’s not or respect for what’s legal and what’s not. The conversation should be about 
what’s right and what’s wrong. And that can be about the method or the message. 
Some feel it’s inappropriate methodol-
ogy because it shows disrespect for veterans. Some feel the message they’re trying to get across isn’t clear enough. Regardless, the best way to talk about that isn’t by saying it goes against the First Amendment. And on the other side, saying anything less than total athlete autonomy in how they represent their employers is an infringement upon their  First Amendment rights isn’t any better. 
This shouldn’t be about the First Amend-
ment in a legal sense. This should be about the First Amendment’s essence. Not, “What are the limits of the law?” but instead, “What is the law supposed to accomplish?”. In other words, what do we want freedom of speech to mean?
It could mean its legal intention, protect-
ing Americans from government tyranny. Or it could extend beyond that, meaning not just protection from the government, but an un-
abridged right to speak your mind regardless 
of whose feelings it hurts or who it offends. 
Athletes are in a unique position to do this, 
because unlike an engineer or a chef, they’re rarely replaceable. If Tom Brady takes a knee before a game, he isn’t going anywhere.  If a construction worker shows up to a site in full Nazi regalia, probably not. 
Granted, Kaepernick hasn’t caught on with 
a team since becoming the face of the kneel-ing movement, but it’s become too main-stream for that to happen to everyone. 
For the sake of transparency, I’ll say I lean 
heavily toward the side of the athletes. You’re welcome to disagree, and I’d love to have an honest discussion about it. But if we’re going to talk, let’s talk about what ought to be. Not what’s legally permissible. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Keep an 
eye out for his next column by following 
him on Twitter @ebaueri. Contact him at 
ebauer@alligator.org.
Players taking a knee isn’t about the First Amendment. It’s about more.Sweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Ride  
Smarter! 
BIKE EDUCATION IN GAINESVILLE
Ride your bike safely, confidently, and legally.
The Gainesville Cycling Club has an educational program to 
promote best practices of street cycling. We offer workshops to help teens and adults improve their cycling skills as well as outreach presentations to inform participants about the rights and responsibilities of motorists and cyclists sharing the road. For more info  on the program, contact Stephen Perz, GCC Bicycle Ed. Director at Stephen_perz@yahoo.com  
or visit the GCC website at www. gccfla.org .
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedLooking 
for a non 
invasive 
holistic option for:
•increased blood flow
• sleep management
• stress reduction & 
relaxation
• mental acuity
• physical fitness and 
endurance
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705  
Complementary 20 minute session
from UF MBAGame Day at Blackadder 
Local Craft Beer
Tailgating Growler Fills
Open Early for Home Games
618-A NW 60th ST
(Newberry Rd by McAlister’s)
www.blackadderbrewing.com
352.339.0324
had the knee.”
“(We) just felt that we needed a 
little bit of a kick start,” McElwain 
said of Del Rio after he replaced Franks in the third quarter against 
the Wildcats. “Luke gave us that.”
Despite losing his starting job 
to a redshirt freshman to start the 
year, McElwain said Del Rio never had a bad attitude in practice, and more importantly, he continued to prepare himself to be the starter should his opportunity come. 
“I had a feeling that I would 
have to play sometime this year. Whether it was, we were killing a team, or hopefully not an injury,” Del Rio said. “I practice as if I’m going to play.” 
As for how long Del Rio’s time 
starting under center will last, it’s hard to say. McElwain told re-porters that having Del Rio start 
on Saturday doesn’t mean Franks 
won’t start again. But in the mean-time, McElwain’s rolling with Del Rio. A player who’s been on the Florida sidelines since McElwain’s ﬁ  rst day in orange and blue. A vet-eran who can get the offense orga-nized before the snap and recog-nize what the defense is about to 
throw at him. A guy who acts like 
a coach out on the ﬁ  eld, taking up after his father, Oakland Raiders coach Jack Del Rio. 
But even with all that, McEl-
wain said what sets Luke Del Rio apart is his competitive spirit and the fact that he never gave up on getting his job back — something 
not lost on the redshirt junior.
“It’s been a tough road coming 
back being healthy, competing my 
butt off in camp. Feleipe won the job. He earned it,” Del Rio said. “Sometimes you just need to shake things up and get a spark.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org Del Rio will 
start for UF
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13
Writer     Brannon            Dixon                        Bauer                 Cohen
Gustavus Adolphus 
@ Concordia, MN     CONCORDIA             GUSTAVUS              GUSTAVUS              CONCORDIA
Vanderbilt @ Florida (-9.5)     VANDY              VANDY                  VANDY                     FLORIDA
Georgia @ T ennessee (+7.5)    GEORGIA              GEORGIA                  GEORGIA                 GEORGIA
USC @ Washington State (+3.5)    USC                                 WSU                 USC                    WSU
South Carolina @ T exas A&M (-9.5)    TEXAS A&M              S. CAROLINA           S. CAROLINA           S. CAROLINA
Clemson @ Virginia T ech (+7)    CLEMSON              CLEMSON                CLEMSON               CLEMSON
Florida state @ Wake Forest (+7.5)    WAKE FOREST            WAKE FOREST     FSU                              FSU    
Colorado State @ Hawaii (+7)    HAWAII              CSU                 CSU                    CSU
Record     14-17              12-19                 17-14  11-20
 Writer     Hall             De la Torre               Thompson               Goldkamp
Gustavus Adolphus   @ Concordia, MN     CONCORDIA             GUSTAVUS              CONCORDIA       
GUSTAVUS
Vanderbilt @ Florida (-9.5)     FLORIDA             VANDY                 VANDY                    VANDY
Georgia @ T ennessee (+7.5)    GEORGIA              GEORGIA                  GEORGIA                 GEORGIA
USC @ Washington State (+3.5)    USC                                    USC                  USC                     USC
South Carolina @ T exas A&M (-9.5)    TEXAS A&M              TEXAS A&M              S. CAROLINA         TEXAS A&M  
Clemson @ Virginia T ech (+7)    CLEMSON              CLEMSON                 CLEMSON                CLEMSON
Florida state @ Wake Forest (+7.5)    WAKE FOREST            FSU                               FSU                       WAKE FOREST   
Colorado State @ Hawaii (+7)    CSU               CSU                  HAWAII                    CSU
Record     16-15                16-15                  18-13   18-13for some Chester's Hot Fries right 
now," I'd have $1,667, which, coin-cidentally, is the amount of money Kadeem Telfort spent this summer using stolen credit card information, 
according to police.
What are the odds? It's simply 
meant to be.
You can't go wrong with its de-
lectableness. You can't go wrong 
with its palatability. You can't go wrong, period.
Chester's Hot Fries is the ulti-
mate snack. Trust me. You know 
it's the truth. 
-Dylan Dixon
 You should order Gummi 
Worms because...
Pssst. You there. Listen up. Wan-
na get rich? I’ve got a plan.
Gummi Worms were recently 
banned from the vending machines 
in all schools across Victoria, British 
Columbia. Apparently they’re chok-ing hazards to small children or something like that. Whatever.
Here in America, we eat our Gummi Worms when we want, how 
we want. No government bans. No 
big brother telling us what we can’t stuff down our throats. Chewy, gelatin-based, color-dyed sugary snacks are in our blood. ‘Murica.
But this is where the money 
comes in. You, me and 10,000 pounds of 100-percent fresh All-American Gummi Worms stuffed in 
the trunk of our car will cross over 
the Canadian border. We’ll sell our product to grade-school children ﬁ  ending for pure Gummi Worms all across Victoria. We’ll be the only suppliers in the city. We’ll be rich. 
And that’s why Gummi Worm’s 
are better than Chester’s Hot Fries.  
-Ian Cohen
 
Now, onto our competitors!In ﬁ  rst place with a 18-13 record 
sits Orlando Sentinel writer Edgar "this sh-t is serious" Thompson, who argued that everyone's picks should be kept secret until the col-umn comes out on Fridays. Edgar was worried people might cheat off 
him and just choose his picks be-
cause he's so smart. But apparently not smart enough to just send in his 
picks after everyone else.
Tied for ﬁ  rst is 247Sports writer 
Thomas "I love the way it hurts" 
Goldkamp, who was mocked by Gators coach Jim McElwain for his obsession with injury reports. McEl-wain even said he'll laminate one for Thomas and send it as a birth-day gift. The joke here is that any-
one important would remember his 
birthday.
In third place at 17-14 is alliga-
torSports writer Ethan "snapchat awareness of a grandma" Bauer, who likes to send people snapchats of just his face looking into the cam-era. The ﬁ  rst time I thought it was an accident, but I guess that's how 
he thinks humans communicate. 
Up next at 16-15 is Gainesville 
Sun writer Graham "you know who 
you are" Hall, who induced an omi-nous email from Edgar when he for-got to transcribe what was the only interesting quote from an otherwise pointless interview. You had one job, Graham. 
Tied with Graham is GatorCoun-
try writer Nick "Fight me IRL" de la Torre, who threatened to throw 
down with a 7-year-old on Twit-
ter this week. It's unclear whether Nick's hate comes from being called out for bad tweets, or just lashing from consistently poor performanc-es in the picks column. 
Then with a 14-17 record comes 
alligatorSports editor Matt "I'm in-fatuated with clowns" Brannon, 
which is exactly what he texted a 
colleague this week moments before walking into a theater to watch "It" with his girlfriend.
Next, with a 12-19 record is Dylan 
"I'm why health insurance exists" Dixon, who after falling ill Wednes-day, had another issue Thursday when he had to skip class to see a 
dentist. Geez, Dylan, I wonder if it 
has anything to do with a diet exclu-sively made up of Hot Fries?
And in last place for the fourth 
week in a row with a 11-20 record is alligatorSports writer Ian "I'm ter-riﬁ  ed of using the Alligator men's bathroom" Cohen, who's scared to go potty in the Alligator restroom 
because the door handle is a little 
wobbly, just like his conﬁ  dence. 
PICKS,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
This week has been an encouraging one 
for the Gators men’s golf team.
Florida entered the Trinity Forest Invita-
tional in Dallas looking for production out-
side of its team leader, Alejandro Tosti, and 
it found it.
Before the tournament, coach J.C. Dea-
con expressed frustration with his players 
and decided to shake things up with his 
lineup.
Deacon inserted sophomore Andy Zhang 
into the five-man rotation, and it paid divi-
dends for the Gators, as they earned their 
first victory of the year.
Florida hasn’t announced its starting 
lineup for the upcoming Nike Collegiate Invitational in North Plains, Oregon, but it seems like a safe bet it’ll include Zhang, 
who finished in the top five in his first ap-
pearance of the season.
Florida will also look to its upperclass-
men, Tosti and Gordon Neale, to have a strong performance in the tournament.
Tosti was the only UF golfer to play con-
sistently well when he won the Carpet Capi-
tal Invitational earlier this month.
However, he struggled toward the end of 
Day 2 and all of Day 3 this week in Dallas, 
surrendering his spot atop the leaderboard and dropping to a tie for 20th. He will look 
to bounce back as the Gators head out west 
this weekend.
Neale, on the other hand, is coming off 
a career-best round where he shot 8 under and ended the day finishing second on the 
leaderboard.
The junior has had an up-and-down ca-
reer so far for the Gators, but if he can play anywhere near the level he played at in Dal-
las, it could bode very well for Florida mov-ing forward.The tournament in Oregon will also pres-
ent another opportunity for the freshmen 
Chris Nido and John Axelsen to settle in.
Nido struggled in Round 2 this week, 
but was solid in the first and final rounds.  Axelsen did the opposite, struggling through 
Day 1 and Day 3, but shot a career-best score of 70 on the second day.
The next time the Gators take to the 
course, they will have additional coaching help on the sidelines.
Florida announced on Thursday morning 
that former UF and PGA Tour golfer Dudley 
Hart has joined the team as a volunteer as-
sistant coach.
Hart is a 2003 UF Hall of Fame inductee 
and was a four-time All-American. As a pro-fessional, he notched two PGA Tour victo-
ries at the 1996 RBC Canadian Open and the 
2000 Honda Classic.
“Dudley has spent his entire adult life 
around the best players in the world. That 
knowledge is a game changer for our stu-
dent-athletes,” Deacon said in a release. 
“More importantly than his on-course 
achievements, Dudley is an amazing per-
son. He is a passionate family man and fits seamlessly into our up-beat culture. We are 
so grateful to have Dudley join us and ap-
preciate his generous support.”
Hart’s experience and knowledge could 
prove valuable for a Gators team with high hopes for this season.
So far, Florida hasn’t been able to put 
together strong performances from both Tosti and the rest of the team, but the po-
tential that Florida’s young golfers flashed 
last weekend should please Deacon moving 
forward.
Florida will look to achieve this consis-
tency as the first round begins in Oregon on 
Sunday. 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFlorida men’s golf looks to build off its victory in Dallas
Alligator File Photo
After UF’s first fall win, Gators men’s golf coach J.C. Deacon (above) added former 
PGA pro Dudley Hart to his coaching staff. Deacon said Hart’s wealth of knowledge is a “game changer” for the team. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida soccer team is without a 
scheduled weekday match for the ﬁ  rst time 
this season, giving it extra time to practice and build chemistry.
“We’re just excited to have a full week of 
training,” coach Becky Burleigh said. “It’s really the ﬁ  rst one we’ve had since the be-ginning of the season.”
Before Sunday’s match at Georgia, the 
No. 10 Gators need to work out their strug-gles on the road.
Florida holds a 3-2 record away from 
home this season. UF hasn’t beaten a team on the road by more than one goal this 
year, with two of its three wins away from Gainesville coming in overtime. And the 
two road losses are its only defeats on the year.
The Gators’ road troubles aren’t due to a 
lack of opportunity. In fact, they have more shot attempts in neutral and away games (76) than they do at home (67).
Instead, the Gators have shown a lack of 
efﬁ  ciency with their opportunities.
In matches outside of Gainesville, UF 
has only scored ﬁ  ve goals and holds a plus-one goal differential, a staggering difference compared to the 14 goals and plus 11 goal differential registered at home matches.
This leaves Florida’s shot percentage on 
the road at a staggering 6.6 percent as op-
posed to its home shot percentage of 20.9 
percent. Its shot-on-goal percentage is also more than 10 points lower on the road (43.4) than at home (53.7).
A change in tactics is clearly necessary, 
and that change may be pressuring oppo-nents farther up the pitch.
“I think that we’ve learned that we’re 
better when we’re more aggressive,” Bur-
leigh said. “Especially defensively. And I 
think that’s something we’ll carry forward.”
This tactic proved helpful in the Gators’ 
last match against Alabama.
In the ﬁ  rst half, Alabama seemed to have 
the upper hand. The Crimson Tide not only outshot Florida 5-3, but was comfortable on the ball and controlled the pace of play.
However, UF came out after the intermis-
sion with an aggressive press that impacted the match almost immediately.Five minutes into the second half, the 
Gators opened the scoring after generating their ﬁ  rst corner of the match. They added another two minutes later after creating a turnover deep in the Tide’s side of the ﬁ  eld.
Florida then tacked on a third on a 76th 
minute counter attack by Deanne Rose, scor-
ing all three goals on six second-half shots.
“I think moving on from (Alabama) we 
realized that we’re a pressing team and 
I think we ﬁ  gured that out in the second half,” senior captain Gabby Seiler said. “I think just realizing that and knowing that we are pressing team is deﬁ  nitely going to beneﬁ  t us for the rest of the year.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org  Soccer team looks to end road woes Sunday at Georgia
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
After taking home multiple titles 
from their previous tournaments, both the men’s and women’s tennis teams will be competing in ITA tour-naments this weekend in Oklahoma 
and California, respectively.
The men’s team will compete in 
Tulsa at the ITA All-American Tour-
nament. The competition will run from this Saturday until Oct. 9.
The men’s team ﬁ  nished with ﬁ  ve 
titles from last weekend’s tourna-ments, four from the Gator Ranked 
+1 and one from the Ivy-Plus Invi-
tational. Now, the team is preparing to face tough competition, including highly ranked teams like Ohio State and Mississippi State.
Both the Buckeyes and Bulldogs 
have top-ﬁ  ve ranked players compet-
ing in the tournament this weekend, 
including No. 1 Mikael Torpegaard of Ohio State and No. 2 Nuno Borges of Mississippi State.Last year at the ITA All-American 
Championship, only seven players represented Florida in the tourna-ment. This year, Florida and Arkan-sas are tied for having the most par-ticipants from an SEC school. Both schools are sending nine athletes to 
represent the respective universities. 
In the singles ﬁ  nals last year, ju-
nior Alfredo Perez 
competed against Petros Chryso-chos of Wake For-
est and dropped the match 7-5, 6-1. He will look 
to avenge that 
loss when he competes in sin-
gles play again this year. 
In pre-qualifying singles play, se-
nior Jordan Belga will compete with freshman Andy Andrade and sopho-more Stephen Madonia on Saturday.
Gators competing in the qualify-
ing singles round starting on Monday include senior Chase Perez-Blanco, junior McClain Kessler, sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and freshmen Duarte Vale and Oliver Crawford.
For qualifying doubles competi-
tion, Vale will team up with Craw-ford and Perez-Blanco will pair up with Andrade. Doubles play will be-
gin on Monday
This tournament will mark Craw-
ford’s ﬁ  rst appearance as a Gator af-
ter he sat out last weekend with a concussion. 
On Thursday, Perez will compete 
in the main draw for singles and with Ingildsen for doubles. 
The women’s team will travel to 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California, to com-pete in the Riviera ITA All-American Championships. The competition will run from Saturday to Oct. 8.
Senior Brooke Austin will start 
in the qualifying rounds for singles on Tuesday, but has an opportunity to move up into the main draw de-pending on her play. She will also 
compete with fellow senior Peggy 
Porter in qualifying doubles play on Tuesday. 
Anna Danilina and Josie Kuhl-
man, also seniors, will represent Florida in the main draw for singles play on Thursday. 
It will be a quicker turnaround 
for Danilina and Kuhlman, as both 
women competed in pro tourna-
ments in Stillwa-
ter, Oklahoma, and Charleston, South Carolina, respectively.
Kuhlman lost 
to Emily Appleton 
of Great Britain in 
the main draw of 
singles play by a 
score of 6-3, 6-4 on Wednesday in Charleston. 
Danilina competed in the quarter-
ﬁ  nals of doubles on Thursday with Viktoriya Lushkova of the Ukraine against Vladica Babic of Montengro and Soﬁ  a Blanco of Argentina. They 
won the match with scores of 6-4, 
6-7, 10-4 and will compete in the semiﬁ  nals on Friday.  
Neither Victoria Emma nor Katie 
Kubicz, both freshmen, will compete this weekend. 
Standout Gators from the ﬁ  rst 
tournaments of the season have been Vale and Ingildsen from the 
men’s team and Danilina and Austin 
from the women’s.
Vale secured two titles (one in 
singles and the other in doubles) at the Gator Ranked +1 tournament and Ingildsen secured a singles title as well in the same tournament.
Danilina captured the singles and 
doubles titles in the Hall of Fame/
ITA Grass Invitational. Austin ﬁ  n-
ished as the runner-up in the ﬁ  nals match at the Duke Bonk Invite, dropping the match to Duke’s No. 57-ranked Kaitlyn McCarthy.
Both tournaments will help the 
teams establish more secure ITA rankings as they move further into the fall season.
@faiello_mari
 Women’s, men’s tennis teams in action this weekend
Austin
Perez
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
CABANA BEACH APT! 1BR/1BA in 4BR/4BA $445/mo! Furnished. Utilities & amenities in-cluded! W/D in unit. Female only. Great pool, rec room. Close to UF & The Oaks Mall. No pets. Call 352-207-1039     9-29-17-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
Designated drivers are the greatest Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
2 - 2015 Kymco Like 200i motor scootersBoth in showroom condition. 500+/- miles. Electric start, smooth-shifting CVT automati Trans, 200 CCSOHC 4-stroke engine w/ EFI, front/rear disc brakes, 85-90 mpg., storage, windshield, new helmets included. Navy/black, Ivorybrown. $1500 each. Cash only. No delivery. Pick up in Sarasota. For more info call  941-809-3444    10-6-17-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYUnload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     10-2-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
1BR/1BA available for UF student only. Immediate move-in. Located very close to campus. Call Erica or Michelle 352-373-2700    9-29-17-3-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
Violinist seeking treble-clef-reading duet partner for paid gigs (flute or violin). Must be advanced (Bach Double, 3rd position, vi-brato). Please call Elizabeth 503-473-3295.     10-2-5-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring! Managers, Assistant Managers, & Associates for Goodwill stores. Start at $9.15/hr. Call (352) 335-1311 or visit Job Junction at 3520 SW 34th St. Apply online at goodwilljax.org      10-2-17-5-14
PROFESSIONAL NANNY looking for FT po-sition. Over 20 yrs exp w / newborns & tod-dlers. Excellent references & a reliable car. rosaredford56@gmail.com    10-4-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.    9-29-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      9-29-1-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
REALISTICALLY-$500-$1000 or More Returning Phone Calls!!! No Explaining, No Selling, NOT MLM. Call: 1-888-267-1889     10-6-4-20
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-9-9-20
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2017
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Bored? Like to laugh?Need water to survive?If you said yes, google:"READY SET COMEDY PODCAST"It's for you!                                    9-29-4-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
1.  Baby
1.  ____ job5.  ____ metal
2.  Extinguisher 6.  Grieve 
3.  Outermost planet7.  Put in
4.  Reddish colorFAINNT
NIEDISSPARC
RUMNO
AEFIMNR
UENTPNEJNCITE
AETNRGANSWERS: 1A-Infant  5A-Scrap  6A-Mourn  7A-Inject
1D-Inside  2D-Fireman  3D-Neptune  4D-Garnet  B-Union Pacific9-29-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This company operates the largest 
railroad system in the United States. BONUSACROSS
1 Roman jet?
4 Start of a
rhyming Basque
game
7 Reason to use
an inhaler
13 Knock
14 Cry buckets15 Unexpected twist16 The record
longest
continuous ride
on one is 105.57miles
18 Unlikely to ride a
16-Across well
19 Hunted Carroll
critter
20 Balm-maker’s
plants
22 A.L. East team
23 Roman’s advice
to prevent anexplosion?
27 ’80s jeans31 SOP part: Abbr.32 “48 __”
33 Assistant who
didn’t exist in
Mary Shelley’snovel
34 Whiskey order
36 “... beneath __
blue sky”: Don
Henley lyric
38 Stubborn equine
39 Roman variety
store? (and a hintto 10 otherpuzzle answers)
41 Perry’s creator
42 Dull finish44 F-__45 A hothead has a
short one
46 67.5 deg.
47 Item before a
door
49 Sack out51 Roman
Shakespearean
drama?
54 Bargain bin abbr.55 Bete __56 Immature
dragonfly
59 Stereotypically
stylish
62 Leaves port
65 Facial feature
named after ananimal
66 Muscovite’s
denial
67 Whiskey option68 They usually
leave the park
69 Key contraction
70 Roman graveyard
shift hour?
DOWN
1 R&B’s __ Hill2 Soup aisle array3 Roman bowler’s
target?
4 Roman musical
family?
5 Hole-making tool6 Intestinal7 Invite on a date8 NutraSweet
competitor
9 Have faith in
10 Noodle topper?11 “Les __”12 At least one14 “... truth is always
strange; / Strangerthan fiction” poet
17 “Willkommen”
musical
21 Words on a
reward poster
24 “... there’s __!”:
Hamlet
25 Intimidating words
26 Roman bike?
27 Roman “high”
request?28 Exotic pet
29 Pre-Aztec
Mexican
30 Multi-armed
ocean critter
35 Bad picnic 
omen
37 Gets bent out of
shape
40 Roman Scrabble
Q-tile, e.g.?
43 Authorize48 Dior designs50 Secret hot date52 Fed. bill53 Simple question
type
57 Roman’s long
golf hole?
58 Casual greeting59 “That stinks!”60 Nanki-__61 Bagpiper’s hat63 Anatomical orb64 Apollo lander,
briefly
By John Lampkin
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/29/1709/29/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 29, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Historic spans
5 2012 World Series
MVP Sandoval
10 FiveThirtyEight
fodder
14 Ristorante bottle15 “Let’s call it __”:
“We’re even”
16 Spring flower17 Disney CEO
since 2005
18 Small, silvery
Chesapeake Bayswimmer
20 See 34-Across22 Experiment23 See 34-Across27 National
Lampoon writer,typically
31 Old West
gunslinger Jack
32 Hand over33 State with
conviction
34 Clue for 20-, 23-,
48- and 52-Across
40 Spray holder41 Casino game42 __ acids: protein
components
44 Fireproofing
constructionmineral bannedin many countries
48 See 34-Across50 Bit of land52 See 34-Across56 Boneless
seafood cut
59 Nonstick
cookware brand
60 Reverberate61 Chips go-with62 Online page63 Profound64 Owner of
Regency hotels
65 At any point
DOWN
1 Kick out2 Hardships3 Iron deficiency
concern
4 Upset with5 Chess piece that
may be promoted6 Condition treated
by Ritalin, briefly
7 Sailor’s jail
8 Most recent9 Have financing
from
10 Jenny Craig
offering
11 LAX incoming
flight
12 Muscle spasm13 Volcanic output19 __ XIII: Title role
in “The Young
Pope”
21 Pulitzer winner
Walker
24 File menu
command
25 Aroma
26 Just announced28 Two-legged
zebra
29 Swear words30 Feudal workers34 Hardly envelope-
pushing
35 “Do you really
think so?”
36 Haberdashery37 Blot gently38 Cork’s home:
Abbr.39 Respectful
negative
40 Kilmer of
“Tombstone”
43 Ingredient in une
omelette
44 Having fun
45 Scary African fly46 1380s Norwegian
king
47 Unruffled49 Very silly51 “House of
Payne” creator__ Perry
53 Frequent
collaborator withLouis and Duke
54 Take a nap55 Doc’s “Right
away”
56 Nourished57 Sprain treatment58 “Thar __ blows!”
By Derek Bowman©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/28/1709/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Friday
The highest incidence of crashes in Alachua County occur on Fridays, around the Five O’clock rush hour.
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedAvoid distractions, slow down; 
keep your eyes off your phone 
and on the road...Stay 
   Safe!Rush 
Hour21 Entertainment
INSIDE
The Gators have made a tradition out of boasting the nation’s top defensive 
backs. Freshmen Marco Wilson and CJ Henderson are carrying on that legacy.
ONLINE
For updates on Florida’s football game against Vanderbilt on Saturday, 
follow us on Twitter @alligatorSports and visit alligator.org/sports.
NEXT GENERATIONBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
It wasn’t ﬂ  ashy. No, it was a simple ges-
ture. The waving of his arms across his body, 
as if to tell his waiter he had no room for dessert, and a couple nods to about 90,000 screaming fans. That was Marco Wilson’s re-
action after smacking the ball away from Ten-
nessee receiver Marquez Callaway two weeks ago on what was probably the most important play of his young career. It wasn’t ornate. It 
wasn’t over-the-top. But it was something. 
For Marco Wilson, there’s always something. 
When he was a kid, his father Chad re-
members 5-year-old Marco blazing past de-fenders playing ﬂ  ag football for the West Pines Wildcats. And even though he played ﬂ  ag football, he liked to tackle his opponents before pulling their ﬂ  ags. 
At his brother’s middle school graduation, 
Marco disappeared. “We didn’t know where the hell he was,” Chad said, “and we started 
to panic.” Until Marco showed up moments 
later wielding a video of himself doing acro-batics on the roof. 
When he was in middle school himself, 
Chad remembers Marco once grabbing a pick six and raising his arm on the way to the end 
zone. “Very Marco,” Chad called it. 
Always wanting to be different. Always 
wanting to do things his way. But that’s dif-
ﬁ  cult when you tore your ACL and missed your junior year of high school. And when you’re one of more than 100 players at one of the nation’s top football programs. And espe-cially when your brother, Quincy, starred at your own position for the Gators before leav-
ing school early to become a second-round 
pick of the Indianapolis Colts in the 2017 NFL Draft.
But for Marco, a freshman cornerback 
who’s starting for Florida at 18, living in his brother’s shadow is unacceptable. That’s not to say he doesn’t look up to Quincy, try to learn from him or model his game after him. He just wants to do it better. 
“He’s always just tried to do whatever 
Quincy did,” his father said. “And more.”
That was clear as a child. As the more dar-
ing of the two, Marco taught himself to back-ﬂ  ip as a 7-year-old. Quincy was uninterested, but Marco practiced through countless land-
ings on his chest and head until he perfected 
it. 
That led to an interest in parkour. Marco 
even made a video showing him hopping over cars, running up walls, jumping off board-walks and landing (mostly) on his feet. Pat-rick Surtain, Marco’s coach at American Heri-tage High School of Plantation, said he saw that in Marco during his high school years. 
“It’s like a stuntman,” he said, “and he 
does it with such ease... (I call him) Spider-man Wilson.”
It also got him in trouble one morning 
when Chad found dents on the hood of his Pontiac G6. He immediately suspected Marco. 
“That’s his MO,” he said. “That’s his 
work.”
Marco denied it. Then Chad found the par-
kour video, “and there he was doing ﬂ  ips off the hood of my car.”
“When he was younger,” Chad said, “he 
was a little more free-spirited than we wanted him to be. He would get himself into some trouble.”
But on the football ﬁ  eld, that was -- and 
remains -- a good thing. 
Surtain saw that in him from the begin-
ning. He said he met Marco when he was about 10, and in addition to his speed, what stood out was his aggressive style of play. 
Ask any wideouts on UF’s roster and 
they’ll tell you Quincy was just like that, too. He was physical. He was gonna put his hands on you at the line. But Quincy had an advan-tage over Marco: He’s bigger. 
At Florida, he was listed at 6-foot-1, 213 
pounds. Marco is 6 feet, 177. But if you ask Florida’s players, they’ll tell you that’s the only big difference. “Marco plays like he’s 6-1, 215,” lineback-
er Cristian Garcia said.  “They’re both pretty similar. Not much difference.”
And three games into his freshman sea-
son, Marco has exceeded what Quincy did in his ﬁ  rst three games. He’s amassed four defended passes, which ranks second on the 
Gators behind Dawson. And while his father 
said he doesn’t put too much pressure on himself to exceed the expectations his brother left, the trash-talking, quick-footed corner has done so. 
“He didn’t wanna just go there and 
keep hearing Quincy’s little broth-er,” Chad said. “He wanted to go there and make a name for 
himself. Which, three games 
into his freshman year, he’s certainly done. He’s played and done more early in his career than Quincy was able to do.”
Surtain agreed. “I think he wanted to go 
up there and really create his 
own success, not relying on his 
brother,” he said. “And he’s done that so far.” 
Chad calls it a mission, 
both to live up to his broth-er’s legacy and exceed it. But also to just play his way. To be his own man. 
“And so far,” he said, 
“so good.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org KICK OFF
Editor: Matt Brannon  Photos for Cover Illustration: Alan Alvarez
Alligator, Friday, September 29, 2017
“Marco plays like he’s 6-1, 215,” lineback-
er Cristian Garcia said.  “They’re both pretty 
similar. Not much difference.”
And three games into his freshman sea-
son, Marco has exceeded what Quincy did 
in his ﬁ  rst three games. He’s amassed four 
defended passes, which ranks second on the 
Gators behind Dawson. And while his father 
said he doesn’t put too much pressure on 
himself to exceed the expectations his brother 
left, the trash-talking, quick-footed corner has 
“He didn’t wanna just go there and 
keep hearing Quincy’s little broth-
er,” Chad said. “He wanted to 
go there and make a name for 
himself. Which, three games 
into his freshman year, he’s 
certainly done. He’s played 
and done more early in his 
career than Quincy was able 
“I think he wanted to go 
up there and really create his 
own success, not relying on his 
brother,” he said. “And he’s 
Chad calls it a mission, 
both to live up to his broth-
er’s legacy and exceed it. 
But also to just play his 
way. To be his own man. 
“And so far,” he said, 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org 
 RUNNING IN THE FAMILY:By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
On a recent Wednesday afternoon, 
two days before his high school’s an-
nual rivalry game against Belen Je-
suit, Chris Merritt thought about 
the typical Miami football player. 
The one with all the scholarship 
offers. The one with the college re-
cruiters he knows on a ﬁ  rst-name 
basis. The one with the attitude. 
The one with the arrogance.
And then Merritt thought about 
CJ Henderson. The two don’t 
quite compare.
“These kids are told they’re 
the best things since peanut 
butter by every college in the 
country, and the ego grows,” 
said Merritt, who coached 
Henderson for four years at Co-
lumbus High School in Miami. 
“He never developed an ego.”
Henderson is different, Merritt 
said. Reserved. Polite. Humble 
and respectful and quiet. But 
mostly quiet.
“For two years,” Merritt 
says, laughing, “I didn’t 
know he had a voice.”
That assessment 
is a common one 
of Henderson, 
now a 6-foot-
1, 186-pound 
freshman cor-
ner- back at the 
Uni- versity of Flori-
da.  His play on the 
ﬁ  eld, where he 
was an All-Ameri-
can cornerback and a star 
running back in high 
school, didn’t mirror 
his persona off of it. 
It didn’t come close.
Henderson lived 
in the same neigh-borhood as Merritt, and would often drive 
home with him after football practice. Merritt’s son even helped Henderson get through high school chemistry. Still, Mer-
ritt never heard him say much.
At Florida, Henderson hasn’t changed. 
His teammate, UF safety Nick Washington, 
likes to describe him in one word.
“An outlier,” Washington said.
But that’s ﬁ  ne with Washington — just 
as long as Henderson keeps playing the 
way he has through Florida’s ﬁ  rst three games.
Henderson is one of two ﬁ  rst-year play-
ers who Florida coaches have given signiﬁ  -cant playing time at cornerback this sea-son, and has done everything to back up their decision. In his ﬁ  rst two games of col-
lege football, Henderson returned two in-
terceptions for touchdowns, becoming the ﬁ  rst freshman in program history to record pick sixes in back-to-back games and the 
ﬁ  rst UF player to do so since at least 1965.
“He’s a quiet guy,” Washington said, 
“but his game speaks for itself.”
It’s fair to say that Florida is not used 
to quiet cornerbacks. Last year, when 2017 NFL Draft picks Jalen Tabor and Quincy 
Wilson were the starters, drama was usual-ly only a tweet away. Tabor was suspend-ed for the 2016 season opener for ﬁ  ghting 
with a teammate in practice. Soon after, 
Tabor openly questioned the punishment on Twitter. Later in the season, before Florida played Tennessee (and lost), Wil-son called the Volunteers “ducks” and the 
Gators “trucks.” “Ducks can’t pull trucks,” 
Wilson claimed. 
But Henderson won’t be making any 
such proclamations.
Instead, through three games this sea-
son, he has made the most noise on the ﬁ  eld. Henderson is tied for ﬁ  rst on the team with two interceptions and is tied for sev-enth with 11 total tackles. He has scored 
twice, accounting for 22.2 percent of Flori-
da’s touchdowns this season.
And in high school, it was the same.Henderson often used his rare speed to blow past defenders and make jumps on the ball in passing lanes. On one play, a running back sweep, Merritt still can’t be-lieve how fast Henderson ran down the 
sideline. He was a blur.
“It drew laughter on the headsets,” Mer-
ritt said. “Along with some words that we 
can’t say in front of some kids.”
In a game against Miami Southridge 
High, Merritt remembers how Henderson routinely baited the opposing quarterback while on defense. Henderson would slack off his assigned receiver, making the quar-
terback think he had an easy completion, 
only to accelerate while the ball was in the air and nab an interception.
“There were times on the ﬁ  eld where 
coaches would look at each other and just 
say, ‘wow,’” Merritt said. “He just played 
at a different speed.” 
According to players and coaches at 
Florida, his speed has translated to the 
next level. Multiple players have said he 
is the fastest player on the team, including receiver Josh Hammond, who faces him weekly in practice.
To Merritt, seeing Henderson’s athleti-
cism translate to the college level isn’t a surprise, especially after already watching him evade defenders twice to score touch-downs after a pair of turnovers this season.
He saw it at Columbus High. Now he’s 
seeing it on national TV.
“He’s a top one-percent type of athlete,” 
Merritt said. “I could’ve put him at guard. He still would’ve been the best athlete on 
the ﬁ  eld.”
@icohenb
Icohen@alligator.orgTHE ‘OUTLIER’: 
Came to Florida rated as a four-
star recruit by 247SportsStarted in all three of UF’s 
games this year, most of any 
Gators true freshmanAlready racked up 4 passes 
defensed on the season, 
second best of any SEC 
freshmanby the
Marco Wilson
4
3
 4“I feel like (Marco and CJ 
are) the same. They’re both taught the same techniques and they both listen. Both young guys, both really humble, both always looking 
to get better. You know, 
they take advice from Duke (Dawson) and Chauncey (Gardner) and Nick (Washington) and those guys and just learn. And, you know, they come out and play ball fearlessly.”
- Gators receiver Josh 
Hammond“You know, very conident in (Marco and CJ) because they’re conident in themselves. They have self-conidence, they’re self-motivated. So you continue to try and instill the things 
in them you want. And the 
things that will make you a better player. Not only a better player but a better person. So you know, with that being said, you allow those guys to go out there and play. They have a great skillset, that’s why they’re at the University of Florida. So you get those guys and you allow those guys an opportunity to go out there and showcase that.”
- Gators defensive backs coach Corey BellHammond
Hammond
Merrit
Quotable
Bell
No Gators freshman has more 
tackles than Henderson this 
season, who has 11 going into 
the Vanderbilt gameOf all Gators touchdowns this 
season, 22.2 percent have 
been scored by HendersonThe only true freshman 
in the nation to return an 
interception for a TD in back-
to-back games since 1996by the
CJ Henderson
1
22.2
11
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
On a recent Wednesday afternoon, 
two days before his high school’s an-
nual rivalry game against Belen Je-
suit, Chris Merritt thought about 
the typical Miami football player. 
The one with all the scholarship 
offers. The one with the college re-
cruiters he knows on a ﬁ  rst-name 
basis. The one with the attitude. 
The one with the arrogance.
And then Merritt thought about 
CJ Henderson. The two don’t 
quite compare.
“These kids are told they’re 
the best things since peanut 
butter by every college in the 
country, and the ego grows,” 
said Merritt, who coached 
Henderson for four years at Co-
lumbus High School in Miami. 
“He never developed an ego.”
Henderson is different, Merritt 
said. Reserved. Polite. Humble 
and respectful and quiet. But 
mostly quiet.
“For two years,” Merritt 
says, laughing, “I didn’t 
know he had a voice.”
That assessment 
is a common one 
of Henderson, 
now a 6-foot-
1, 186-pound 
freshman cor-
ner-
 back at the 
Uni-
 versity of Flori-
da.  
 His play on the 
ﬁ  eld, where he 
was an All-Ameri-
can cornerback and a star 
running back in high 
school, didn’t mirror 
his persona off of it. 
It didn’t come close.
Henderson lived 
in the same neigh-
“He’s really physically gifted, one 
of the fastest kids on the team. W e 
expect a lot out of him in the future. 
He’s played really well.”
Gators linebacker Cristian Garcia“He was the best athlete on 
the ield. Didn’t matter what 
position he played. I could’ve 
put him at guard, he still 
would’ve been the best athlete 
on the ield.”
Columbus High School coach 
Chris Merritt“He doesn’t really speak much, but he 
likes to work. Everyday he comes to 
practice he tells us to give him some 
work, so when he gets in games it’s easy 
for him.”
Gators receiver Josh Hammond
Garcia
“He’s like a real humble guy. He just stays to himself. But, he kind of jokes now and then, but he just do it under his breath.”
Gators linebacker 
Vosean Joseph
Joseph
Marco Wilson is already 
emerging from his brother’s shadow after three gamesCJ Henderson may be soft-spoken on the ield, 
but has brought tenacity to Florida’s defense, even as a freshman
“He’s a top one-percent type of 
athlete. I could’ve put him at guard. 
He still would’ve been the best 
athlete on the ield.
Chris Merritt
Columbus High School football coach