We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Collective grieving
UF students held a memorial for Middle Eastern earthquake 
victims, pg. 9.
Fuchs invites Congressman Yoho to visit UF
Fuchs educated Yoho on the National Science Foundation , pg. 8Gators pick up momentum before FSU game
UF won, 36-7, over UAB on Saturday to snap a ﬁ  ve-game losing streak, pg. 13.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 37
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF HAS HIRED A NEW 
OFFICE OF CONTROLLER 
ASSISTANT TO HELP 
WITH FINANCIAL 
ACCOUNTABILITY.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Amid multiple cases of reported 
fraud among UF administrators, anoth-
er former employee has been reported to have misused university funds for personal use.
Jennifer Beback, a former War-
rington College of Business adminis-trative assistant, failed to reimburse personal shipping she charged to the college’s FedEx account, according to an internal audit from Oct. 23.
Auditors found that between March 
2013 and July 2017, Beback failed to re-imburse 17 personal charges to the col-lege FedEx account, totaling $455.48.
It was not uncommon for employ-
ees to charge personal shipping costs to the college’s FedEx account, so long as the individual reimbursed the college shortly thereafter, according to the au-dit. The college since announced inter-nally the practice would no longer be permitted.
Beback abused this practice by in-
structing Joan Lyon, a Warrington ad-ministrative support assistant, to stop keeping track of her personal use re-lated to the account, auditors found in August. Lyon told auditors she did not suspect ill intent because Beback was the ofﬁ  ce manager and her superior.
The college sent Beback a letter Oct. 
4 terminating her employment. Instead of a three-month notice period, she was terminated immediately and given a $13,760 lump sum, reﬂ  ecting three months of her expected salary before tax, per University Police, according to the letter.
Though small in comparison, news 
of Beback’s embezzlement is one of many cases this year of reported fraud by UF employees.
Since October, ﬁ  ve UF Housing and 
Residence Education employees have been terminated in relation to the ongo-ing UF audit on top Housing ofﬁ  cials, according to Alligator archives.
The audit accused former Housing Audit: UF employee 
misused FedEx account THE BOY AND HIS BROTHER 
ARE SUSPECTED OF 
BURGLARIES IN THE AREA.
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After conducting undercover surveillance 
of Tivoli Apartments in Gainesville, located at 
2841 SW 13th St., since the rape of a UF student was reported there Wednesday, Gainesville Police arrested a 14-year-old Gainesville resi-dent for the crime Saturday night.
The boy, whose name was not made public 
because he is a minor, was arrested with his 13-year-old brother after police observed the pair walking around the complex and conceal-ing themselves in the shadows of buildings, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
The brothers had begun to break into an 
apartment’s window just before they were ar-rested, Tobias said.Ofﬁ  cers were patrolling the complex after a 
UF student, who was exercising in the apart-ment’s gym, was attacked and raped, accord-ing to Alligator archives. The woman told po-lice a man who she let into the gym punched her in the face, grabbed her throat and exposed himself to her, according to archives.
GPD detectives suspect the brothers were 
involved in other burglaries in the area in the past few weeks, Tobias said. The 13-year-old brother was arrested on a charge of attempted residential burglary, while the 14-year-old was arrested on charges of sexual battery, business burglary, occupied residential burglary, at-tempted armed residential burglary and resist-ing arrest.
Although Tobias said evidence and state-
ments conﬁ  rmed the 14-year-old was respon-sible for the rape, he couldn’t specify what the evidence and statements were.
The brothers were taken to the Alachua 
County Juvenile Assessment Center.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
GPD: 14-year-old arrested for rape at Tivoli Apartments
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Isaac Gordon, 19-year-old UF geology sophomore, placed ﬁ  rst at the Thanksgiving Pie Run 
hosted by the Florida Running Club on Sunday evening on Hume Field. Read the story on pg. 9.
By Savannah Austin
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 1,500 people dined in 
Magnolia Parke on Sunday night and had the opportunity to donate canned goods and money to feed the hungry.
One Love Café, Taste Pho and 
Noodle House had been collecting food for the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank throughout the week. Juli Denney, a co-owner of One Love Café, and fundraising or-ganizer Andrew Poe decided to extend the fundraiser to the food-truck event.
Attendees could pick from 15 
food truck options as they listened to live music from The Shakedown, a local band debuting at the event, located off of Northwest 39th Place.
“There are people from every 
walk of life, every age group, ev-ery color, every political party — everything — and we never have a single issue,” Denney said. “Not one time did I see one thing bad. Just happy people.”
The food truck rally was the third this year, and the food drive was the second one she and Poe have organized, Denney said.
Poe, 28, ﬁ  rst heard about Bread 
of the Mighty two years ago and said he liked that the organization had a wide outreach, as it worked with pantries, churches and shel-ters in ﬁ  ve different counties.
“It’s an amazing organization because when you donate to Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, you do-nate to over 170 organizations who all work toward feeding the hun-gry,” he said.
Poe, who plans to weigh the 
donations Monday, estimates they collected about 200 pounds worth of canned goods during the drive 
Local restaurants host food truck rally, food driveSEE AUDIT,  PAGE 4
SEE RALLY,  PAGE 4
• the independent florida Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
HIGH  73° LOW  54°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018 to 2019 FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of the 2018-2019 FAFSA from the federal processor is Dec. 15. Apply early to ensure the federal processor has time to analyze and send results to UF Student Financial Affairs. Aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. For more in-formation or assistance with the FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact a financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to be more comfortable with public speaking? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology and Nematology building, Room 1031. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Authors@UF: Maria Coady
Maria Coady will discuss her book “The First Year: One Mother’s Journey After the Loss of Her Son” on Tuesday at 4 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. “The First Year” documents the journey Coady took following the death of her son, Thomas Coady. Thomas was a 22-year-old UF pre-medicine biology stu-dent in 2014 when he died be-cause of a motorcycle accident in Gainesville. Coady is an associ-ate professor of English Speakers of Other Languages and bilingual education. 
UF Volleyball vs. Auburn 
The Gators face the Auburn Tigers on Wednesday in the O’Connell Center, located at 250 Gale Lemerand Dr. The game starts at 7 p.m., and doors open at 6 p.m. This is the last regular sea-son home game. For more infor-mation visit floridagators.com/schedule.aspx?path=volleyball. 
Turkey Trot
Gainesville’s eighth annual Turkey Trot 5K and 10K races will be Thursday from 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in Tacachale at 1621 NE Waldo Road. The 10K starts at 8:30 a.m., and the 5K starts at 8:45 a.m. Registration for the 10K costs $35, and the 5K costs $25. Registration for both races ends today at 11:59 p.m. For more information visit loyd-clarkesports.com/runsignupTT.aspLittle Run on the Prairie 5K
The Alachua County 4-H Club is hosting its annual Little Run on the Prairie 5K through Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park on Dec. 2 at 8:30 a.m. The event benefits 4-H Club summer camp scholarships for special inter-est, residential and county day camps. To learn more about the race, visit active.com or contact Amanda Morgan at am-organ133@ufl.edu or 352-955-2402
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 37
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
allig3i0r 00 
~'IM ~-:____, 'Bach ~ 
EDITION SPRING 2018 ~ 
. Conlacl 'Your DEADLINE 12/8/201 7 
~ Sal£ 'Rep Today RUN DATE 1/8/2018 
852-376-4482 advertisi" lanigator.org Multiple student arrests 
on game day weekend 
By Meryl Kornfield 
Al I igator Staff Writer 
At least three UF students and a 
UF Health Shands Hospital resident 
were arrested this weekend, and six 
students were told to leave Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium during the UF football 
game. 
Although University Police didn't 
arrest anyone during the football 
game, officers removed 15 people, 
six of whom were students, from the 
stadium for possessing alcohol, being 
intoxicated, having no ticket or a fake 
Gator 1 Card, disorderly conduct or 
being in the wrong section, according 
to a UPD press release. 
About two hours after the football 
game ended at about 7 p.m., Ash­
ley Paola Beade, 20, was found by 
Gainesville Police officers asleep at 
the wheel at the stoplight of Gale Le­
merand Drive and Southwest Archer 
Road, with the car in drive, accord­
ing to an arrest report. Officers said 
they had trouble waking up Beade 
and had to put the car in park when it 
began rolling. 
Police said Beade smelled like al­
cohol, stumbled while she walked 
and leaned on a patrol car to keep her 
balance. Police asked her for her driv­
er's license several times and said she 
gave her phone number when asked 
for her address. 
She told police she had three shots 
of vodka, according to the report. 
Beade was arrested on a charge 
of driving under the influence. Police 
said her blood alcohol content was 
0.212 and 0.196, which is more than 
double the legal limit. 
After Beade was released from 
the Alachua County Jail, she said she 
was ashamed but grateful no one was 
hurt. 
"I wish I could go back," she said. 
"This isn't who I am." 
About six hours after the football 
game ended, a witness saw Andrew 
Jeffrey Martin, 31, throw a rock into a glass door at the Florida Gym and 
went inside, according to an arrest 
report. Martin, who is a first-year 
general surgery resident at Shands, 
sprayed a fire extinguisher in a hall­
way in the building, police said. He 
told officers he had too much to drink 
and was "just being stupid." 
Martin was arrested on charges of 
burglary, criminal mischief and ob­
structing the extinguishment of fire. 
, 19, was ar­
rested after a Florida Department of 
Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco 
officer saw her holding an alcoholic 
drink at Midtown on Friday at about 
10:58 p.m., according to an arrest 
report. Police said she refused to an­
swer questions and was charged with 
obstructing justice and possessing al­
cohol. 
Samuel Joseph Stein, 19, was in 
Fat Daddy's, located at 1702 W. Uni­
versity Ave., when a GPD officer saw 
him holding a Corona bottle, accord­
ing to the report. He told the officer 
he was 22 years old but had lost his 
driver's license. 
Police couldn't find a person in 
their computer records who matched 
the false name and date of birth Stein 
gave them, according the report. 
Police said they found two driver's 
licenses on Stein, one that was fake 
and another that belonged to some­
one else. 
Stein was arrested on charges of 
possessing a fake driver's license and 
alcohol while under 21. 
Beade, and Stein are UF stu-
dents, according to the UF directory. 
Beade, Martin, and Stein 
were taken to the Alachua County 
Jail and released on their own recog­
nizance over the weekend. 
Martin and declined to com-
ment, and Stein couldn't be reached 
for an interview. 
@merylkomfield 
mkomfield@alligator.org 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 22 @ 7 PM 
vs.AUBURN 
FINAL MATCH 
DON'T MISS THE GATORS 
AS THEY TAKE ON AUBURN 
IN THE FINAL MATCH OF 
THE REGULAR SEASON ! 
ARRIVE EARLY 
MAKE SURE TO ARRIVE 
EARLY TO CLAIM YOUR SEAT! 
THANK YOU STUDENTS 
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR 
SUPPORT THIS SEASON ! 
FREE ADMISSION WITH GATORl ID 
EXACTECH ARENA AT THE O'CONNELL CENTER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017 ALLIGATOR 3 
An international Thanksgiving 
By David Hoffman al Friendship's UF chapter have for more food. 
Alligator Staff Writer hosted the Thanksgiving Banquet Yuan, 29, ate alongside his 
Akash Barve's only image of 
Thanksgiving was from scenes 
of the holiday dinner in "Fast & 
Furious 6" and the TV sitcom 
"Friends," which he'd watch back 
home in Mumbai, India. 
But Saturday, after moving to 
the U.S. in August to start his mas­
ter's in computer science at UF, 
Barve was finally able to dive face­
first into the Thanksgiving feast he 
longed for as a child. 
"Watching the movies and the 
TV shows, all the families are to­
gether, it's the kind of thing that at 
least once I'd always want to try," 
the 22-year-old said. "It's like a 
dream come true." 
About 450 international stu­
dents and residents packed un­
derneath the dome-roofed, skylit 
sanctuary room at the Creekside 
Community Church, located at 
2640 NW 39th Ave, on Saturday 
night for a Thanksgiving dinner. 
For the past 34 years, Creekside 
Church and nonprofit lnternation-for Internationals event to make parents-in-law, Jingqiu Feng and 
students and residents feel at home Jingxuan Dhai, who came to 
in Gainesville, said International Gainesville from China on Nov. 1 
Friendship organizer and Creekside to help him and his wife, Mandy, 
Church member Linda Sorrels. watch after their daughter. 
"Thanksgiving is when a lot For Yuan, who's lived in the 
of people on campus go home, so U.S. for more than seven years, the 
there's a lot of internationals left dinner was a chance to bridge cul­
kind of alone," Sorrels said. "It's tures. 
kind of a lonely time, especially "Since they're here helping us, 
those (students) that just start I really want them to know more 
here." about the U.S.," the UF alumnus, 
The church bought about 400 who graduated in May with a doc­
pounds of turkey from the Eastside torate in chemistry, said. 
High School Institute of the Culi- At the dinner's close, a pre­
nary Arts for $800. The event cost recorded video message from UF 
about $2,500 overall, Sorrels said. President Kent Fuchs played. Fuchs 
Tickets for the dinner were free for recounted his time in Beijing, Chi­
the guests. na, at Tsinghua University in 1990. 
About an hour into the event, He also explained why Thanksgiv­
a bright trumpet melody blared ing is his favorite holiday. 
through the speakers, signaling the "If you're like me, you're sleep-
time for seconds. deprived and you need a break," 
Held in her mother's lap, Fuchs joked. "I need a break." 
13-month-old Kelly Liu grabbed 
her father, Yuan, at the sound of 
the alarm and tried to raise his 
right arm to show she was ready @hoff davidl 23 
dhoffman@alligator.org 
UF Russian Culture Club hosts 
15th annual fairy-tale festival 
By Allison Jones 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In the Graham Hall courtyard, 
four women adorned in tall, embel­
lished headdresses sang traditional 
Russian folk songs. 
The women performed for 
about 100 people Sunday at the UF 
Russian Culture Club's 15th annual 
fall festival. 
Daria Bulatnikova, the Russian 
Culture Club's president and a UF 
marketing sophomore, said club 
members were excited for this 
year's fairy-tale theme. 
"Russian folklore is like our Dis­
ney World," the 21-year-old said. 
Bulatnikova is a Russian immi­
grant from Yoshkar-Ola, which is 
NOW HIRING 
Inside Help + Delivery Drivers 
MAKE SOME 
DOUGH about 600 miles from Moscow. 
She said club members made 
dozens of Russian dishes, folklore 
costumes and decorations for the 
festival. 
Jeffrey Fiedler, a Gainesville res­
ident, said he enjoyed sampling the 
foods, especially the blini. 
"(It's) sort of like a crepe or 
blintz; every culture has something 
similar," he said. 
Attendees also tested three Rus­
sian sodas, wrote their names in 
Russian, took photos with fairy-tale 
characters and made matryoshka 
dolls, the Russian nesting doll. 
Each member of the club's 
board wore a traditional folklore 
costume and participated in the 
storytelling portion of the event. 
17500 NE US Highway 301 
Waldo, FL 32694 
352-468-3988 Women wore hand-made head­
dresses called kokoshniks. It took 
Bulatnikova 10 hours to design 
hers. 
Neelesh Bapatla, the organiza­
tion's vice president and a UF Rus­
sian senior, dressed up as one of 
"The Three Bogatyrs," a Russian 
version of "The Three Musketeers." 
Bapatla said his character, named 
Ilya Muromets, is his favorite. 
The 22-year-old said the event 
was a good way for students to 
learn more about Russian culture. 
"The Russian community, I 
wouldn't say it's invisible, but it's 
something that Americans don't 
usually think about, so it's a good 
way to get a sense of the culture 
outside of politics," Bapatla said. 
CASH -4 -GOLD 
There's a new GATOR in 
town, GA TOR JACK song 
NOWON , 
-iTunes ►Google Play 
amazon iriiisic ~ Spotify· --_7 w 
joehand.com 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
Looking 
for a non invasive holistic option for:
•increased blood flow
• sleep management• stress reduction & 
relaxation
• mental acuity• physical fitness and 
endurance
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705  
Complementary 20 minute session
from UF MBA
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.netsenior director, Azfar Mian, and the former 
Housing ﬁ  nance director, Stina Schoneck, of co-opening a Campus USA Credit Union account and withdrawing about $470,000 in UF funds for purposes unrelated to the university.
In March, a UF Transportation and Park-
ing Services employee was arrested for cash-ing $8,401.75 in fraudulent checks she wrote to herself between April 2016 and March 2017, according to Alligator archives.
The fraudulent checks, which went nearly a 
year unchecked, prompted UF to expedite the hire of a new assistant in the Ofﬁ  ce of the Con-troller, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
The new assistant, Olga Weider, a certiﬁ  ed accountant and auditor, will begin Dec. 1. Wei-der has been tasked with helping UF keep ﬁ  nan-cial accountability, Sikes said.
“We’re just a large, decentralized organiza-
tion,” Sikes said. “Any additional help that we can have, that can reach out to the units and colleges across campus, the better.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgAUDIT,  from pg. 1The employee charged about $455 to the account
from Thursday to Sunday. Last year, the drive 
raised 130 pounds of food, Poe said.
“A lot of people don’t understand that there 
are a lot of hungry people, especially hungry chil-dren, but hungry people in our county and sur-rounding counties,” Poe said. “I think everyone would like for everyone else to have a good holi-day meal.”
Victoria Williams, 52, ﬁ  lled a backpack with 
cans to donate and attended the rally with her husband Charles, 49. The pair ordered Boom Boom Chicken at Taste Pho and beer at One Love.
“We’re from (Gainesville), so it’s really nice to 
feel like you’re helping our community,” she said.
Denney said the time of year for the drive was 
no coincidence. They chose this time of year for families who are looking for a holiday meal.
“Thanksgiving is all about food, so it’s the best 
time,” she said. “Everybody is giving thanks for everything that they have and part of that is hav-ing a lot of food and beautiful meals for everyone. There’s a lot of people who don’t have the ability to provide that for their family, so they look to Bread of the Mighty.”
Savannah Austin / Alligator Contributor
Fundraising organizer Andrew Poe, 28, consolidates donations of canned food Sunday at a food truck rally. Donated food will be given to Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
Accusations of fraud 
levied against former 
UF administrators:
Name:  Jennifer Beback
Former position: Warrington 
College of Business administrative assistant
How much was allegedly taken: 
$455.48
When:  between March 2013 and 
July 2017
How: failed to reimburse 17 
personal shipping orders she charged to the college’s FedEx account
Names:  Azfar Mian and Stina 
Schoneck
Former positions: Housing 
senior director and Housing ﬁ  nance director
How much was allegedly taken: 
$470,000
When:  between February 2016 
and March 2017
How: co-opening a Campus 
USA Credit Union account and withdrawing UF funds for purposes unrelated to the university
Name: Tiffany Nichole Robinson
Former position:  UF 
Transportation and Parking Services ﬁ  scal assistant
How much was allegedly taken: 
$8,401.75
When:  between April 2016 and 
March 2017
How: issued fraudulent checks to 
herself, family members and othersRALLY,  from pg. 1They collected about 200 pounds of canned food
• . • 
Earn up to S225 this month & S120 this week! 
r•_,n;: .-i::z:::a:::.1Z11i:a.- •~ Donate life saving plasma. 
1 You have the power to save lives! 
I Schedule an appointment at biotestplasrna.corn 
___ _, I Biotest Plasma Center 
I 2315 NW 13th Street 
I Gainesville, Florida 32609 
I (352) 378-9431 
: ABiotest 
I FromNatu~forL/k Get more CW at cwgainesville.com 
Get news updates, more video and biogs at www.alligator.org L ____________ .J 
Give and get back more! fi BiotestPlasmaCenterGainesville W'@BPCGainesville alligator MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
otyou. 
Grab everything you need to get 
back on track-from Pedialyte to 
aspirin and more. 
reActiv" 
rebiotics 
~ 
ishes 
nc 
"" The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
I’m lowkey scared he’s going to sexually 
assault me.”
I read the GroupMe message over 
and over again in disbelief: a flare lit 
up in the night, then laughed away by 
friends either too unsure of how to interfere 
or too desensitized by rape’s prevalence to con-sider doing so.
Hours later, Marie’s date would rape her. (Ma-
rie is not the real name of the victim.) 
The two met on Instagram. He followed her, 
they developed a casual friendship and, a week later, he asked her to his fraternity’s date function. As a freshman, she knew little of the conventions governing such invitations but agreed to go after her friends said they would attend also.
In the following weeks she would make clear her lack of 
interest in any physical or romantic relationship.
When he gushed about her cleavage during a Snapchat 
video call, she hung up, emphasizing the reveal was an ac-cident. When he suddenly kissed her while watching “The Office,” she recoiled and left his fraternity house. When he asked about her sex life, she changed her mind about going to the date function. She was afraid to be drunk around him.
With each rebuff, her rapist redoubled his pursuit, ulti-
mately using guilt — in the form of desperate, essay-long texts — to make her reconsider. She gave in, but on the con-dition of zero sexual interaction.
“I set boundaries very, very explicit,” she told me. “(I told 
him,) ‘I don’t want to do anything with you, not ever.’” Texts provided to the Alligator confirm this account.
But the night of the event, Marie felt her message hadn’t 
resonated. He commented perversely on her looks and re-fused suggestions to leave the privacy of his room at the pre-party. It was here — in a dimly lit, unsupervised space where he made the drinks — that she sent the message about her eventual assault. Shortly after, she would blackout, frag-menting her memory of the night for later recollections.
Her few memories are telling. She says she went to the 
bathroom once at the venue, so visibly drunk a random girl thought it appropriate to shove two fingers down her throat to make her vomit. She remembers being unable to stand up, to the point where fraternity risk managers told her date to escort her home early.
The pair left, but not to Marie’s home. He took 
her back to the fraternity house, where he aggres-sively kissed her while she lied limp on his couch. He then lifted her onto his bed, stripping her na-ked while muttering about her looks.
“I’m seventeen, I’m not on any birth control,” 
she remembers thinking. “I was so close to pass-ing out, so all I could say was ‘put on a condom.’”
He did and, in a crushing last-ditch effort to end the rape, 
Marie feigned unconsciousness. She explained: “He’s prob-ably a nice person — if I just roll over and pretend I’m passed out, he’s going to stop, right?”
He didn’t. Instead, he repositioned atop her now-splayed-
out body and removed the condom. This stirred something inside Marie, shocking her into sobriety long enough to scream, shove him away and escape the fraternity house.
Since that night a year ago, Marie has battled post-trau-
matic stress and panic disorder; she’s taken medical with-drawals from two semesters due to crippling depression and she’s fought to convince herself the irrelevance of the ques-tion, “Why didn’t you just leave while you could?”
Would anyone with a straight face call this a drunken 
regret? This level of lasting pain doesn’t result from harmless drunken mistakes — it results from a failing in our collective willingness or ability to prevent tragedy.
Our student code of conduct pins responsibility for crimes 
on the person who initiates sexual contact, but UF should al-ter the code to include specifics about initiating such contact with someone who is blackout drunk, along with a list of tell-tale signs — vomiting, stumbling, slurred speech — signaling such a level of drunkenness has been met. The University of New Hampshire provides a good model for this approach.
Clearer student by-laws make litigating these cases in stu-
dent court less ambiguous and will encourage more survi-vors to come forward. This may not be the most we can do, but it’s something.
Shouldn’t we do something?Editorial
Just the Turkey Tips
First thing’s first: You know your family is going to bring up 
the recent sexual allegations against literally every man who 
has ever breathed air. If they try to defend any of those men — like Harvey Weinstein, Louis CK or Kevin Spacey — remind them Rasputin probably groped a nun or something, too. Ex-plain to your conservative uncle exactly how dire seuxal assu-alt is and how prevalent it is on college campuses. Remember, every awkward conversation can become a teaching moment.
Second, they’re without a doubt going to ask about Richard 
Spencer. “Why didn’t you all just leave him alone and let him speak to no one?” “Why are you giving him all this attention?” We at the Alligator stand by our convictions of having covered the event, so in that same vein we recommend you stand by yours as well. You might find it hard to put into words the positive impact of peaceful protest, especially with your fam-ily breathing down your neck. So, we’ve written up a brief dialogue you can recite to your family when Richard Spencer inevitably gets brought up. It is as follows:
Father: Why didn’t you all just leave him alone and let him 
speak to no one?
Son: Rasputin may or may not have groped a nun.Mother: Why are you giving him all this attention?Son: More recent historians argue Rasputin’s allegations 
are blown out of proportion, that many of them are rumors propagated by contemporary Russian nobles. But he still prob-ably maybe groped that nun that one time.
Third, “Do you have a boyfriend/girlfriend yet?” This is 
easy. First, you explain to them the myth of the gender bi-nary, then you explain the different types of sexuality and how they can manifest. Let them know not everyone is looking for a healthy relationship all the time and cite, for example, the chances are good that Rasputin groped a nun at some point during his time in the Russian court. Remember: You are not obligated to find a partner. That is your choice to make, not your family’s.
“How do you think Trump’s doing?” We know you’ll want 
to rattle off every single thing wrong with his presidency and his face, but we implore you: Hold it in, for your sake and your family’s. Keep that discussion brief. It’s not worth the debate, and if you dig yourself a hole you’re not getting out. Just state the facts — that it’s speculated that Rasputin more likely than not groped a nun — and move on.
And most direly, you know your family will ask you if any 
close friends of the Romanov dynasty committed any heinous acts against the Russian Orthodox clergy. To this, you can tell your family:
“Well, Nicholas II was kind of a douche.”We hope this helps.Column
UF code of conduct needs update on sexual assault So, you’re headed home for Thanksgiving, or maybe you’re 
headed out-of-state to see extended family. Either way, at some point this week, you’ll be sitting down with your family and talking about… well, you, probably. You’ve been away at college, and your loved ones will want to know three things:
How’re you doing?How’s your schoolwork?Has the liberal Kool-Aid brainwashed you into committing 
moral suicide yet?
That second question can be a tough one to answer, and 
the third question is kind of weird, too. Luckily, we at the Al-ligator are here to help you prepare for Thanksgiving Break with some...
Champe Barton
opinions@alligator.org“■ ■ 
1n1ons 
alligator MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Harvey Weinstein. Roy Moore. Louis 
C.K. Sen. Al Franken. Kevin Spacey. President Donald Trump. That’s just off the top of my head. No, the gross crimes and actions these men have 
been accused of aren't the same and don't share moral equivalency. But the varying shades of sexual misconduct, assault allegations and rape charges indicate a systemic problem beyond Hollywood or Washington, D.C. 
Actions from joking about rape and groping 
people at parties to sexual battery and predatory behavior fall on a continuum of victimization, none of which are acceptable. It's not enough to dismiss the “less terrible” actions —  or dis-miss those that commit them — as childish or to ignore behaviors because they happened long ago. Besides, childish? What little kid do you know jokes about assault? If you heard a kid talking that way, would you let it go?As a country and members of 
the global community, we need to do several things. One, we need to educate people at a young age about respect and consent. Too often we hear of — and know of — men and women, girls and boys, who don’t fully understand how to express and receive consent. 
Consent is permission. It's vol-
untary, knowledgeable and provid-ed by someone old enough to give it. Therefore, a 14-year-old can't consent to a sexual act. A drunk person can't consent to a sexual act. A sleeping person can't consent to a sexual act. Without consent, a sexual act is rape.
We need to address those who refuse to un-
derstand consent, blatantly or subtly. If a guy in our group of friends keeps cracking jokes about sexual assault victims, it’s time we tell him his “humor” isn’t welcome. If our co-workers start talking about the news and accuse “those women of crying rape,” we should politely and ﬁ  rmly tell them how difﬁ  cult it is for victims to come forward, and we should listen. If a friend explains the uncomfortable situation they were in at a party, that friend deserves our undivided attention and support.
On a macro level, we need to 
hold people accountable for their actions. Yes, innocent until proven guilty, but those accused of rape ought to let a judge and jury ﬁ  gure that out. If multiple women share stories about movie stars, even years after initial incidents, we shouldn’t ignore them for the love of celeb-rities. Hear them out. Hold them up. I’d rather support victims than lament losing my favorite shows as the truth comes out.
We must hold our public ofﬁ  cials to the 
highest of standards. Those running for ofﬁ  ce 
— and those in ofﬁ  ce — accused of sexual as-sault should be investigated; predators don't deserve our votes, much less control over state and federal policies, public safety or social norms and customs.
It stings when someone is accused of some-
thing so heinous as sexual assault. It stings 
when it’s someone you once admired. But you know what stings more? The hurt directly in-ﬂ  icted upon the victims of these actions. We ought to ﬁ  nd new heroes instead of shutting our eyes and making excuses.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
As I’m sure you're aware, Thursday is Thanksgiving. As I’ve wished friends and classmates a happy holiday, I’ve gotten mixed reactions. Some wish me the same. Some gush about fam-
ily traditions and Thanksgiving foods. Some talk about seeing their families for the ﬁ  rst time in four months. Some talk about party-ing with high school friends. Some, however, scoff at the well wishes. They say they hate Thanksgiving because it celebrates colonialism and the abuse of Native Americans. They hate it because they can’t stand their families (or their families’ political beliefs). They hate it be-cause they don’t like the food or are the only vegan or vegetarian at the table. Or, they hate it because they ﬁ  nd it hard to give thanks in that environment. 
This year has been trying— po-
litically, economically and mentally. The record for deadliest mass shoot-ing in modern history keeps being broken. We hope and pray for an adequate health care bill, and we're left waiting. Sexual assault allega-tions are coming out, but some still think sexual assault is the victim's fault. It's 2017, and people are still racist. Some people still think women are less capable than men. Some still don’t believe mental health deserves attention. Some still think LGBTQ+ people are sinful. Some think climate change is a hoax. People are still horrible, but that doesn't mean we have nothing to be thankful for.
I'm not going to sit from my place 
of privilege and tell you everything will work out. We may ﬁ  ght our en-tire lives for change we’ll never see. In the meantime, recognize you live in a world where you can ﬁ  ght for whatever you believe in. You can be among those who can — and will — ﬁ  x the mess we've created.
I’m not going to tell you the world isn’t bro-
ken. I wonder if the pilgrims thought so. I’m sure the Native Americans did. But not every-thing is broken. Every day, people do things to blow my mind negatively, but others blow my mind positively. While your family situa-tion may not be good, I know there's someone who's impacted you positively. While you may not have a signiﬁ  cant other, I know you have a friend or family member who would drop ev-erything for you. You may not be treated fairly, but I know there's someone ﬁ  ghting for equal-ity for you. Life is a mess, but it’s beautiful. Take a moment this week to ﬁ  nd something to be thankful for. I’m thankful for you, dear readers. Keep ﬁ  ghting the good ﬁ  ght. Happy Thanksgiving.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. Your heroes — and villains — are dead, but that’s OK; find new ones
Take a moment this week to ﬁ  nd something to be thankful forColumn
Column
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
November 25 &26, 2017 
Saturday 10 am to 9 pm Sunday 10 am to 5 pm 
gaineAvULe LJ going green 
Get more CW at cwgainesville.com 
Get news updates, more video and biogs at www.alligator.org DRAGON RISES i 
• College of Oriental Medicine • 
:,,lllS£5c fo.i 
~,.,.e>.' 
ACUPUNCTURE ... 
Have you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat? 
Masters Degree Program . , 
Accredited by ACAOM 
Visit our COLLEGE and CLINIC 
$10 off 
for new patients .. ______________ .. 
Gainesville, FL (352) 371-2833 
www.dragonrises.edu 
License No. 2425 the Florida 
Comm~sion for Independent Education 
·--"'■,...._ GENERAL NUTRITION CENTERS 
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020 
,. - - ------, 
$10 OFF 
ANY PURCHASE OF $50 OR MORE 
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases . One coupon per customer. 
Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. 
Check out our daily specials. Expires 1V4/17. L----------.J 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
PARTICIPANTS WROTE CARDS 
FOR FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN 
IN THE HOSPITAL.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
The 14th annual Gators March for Babies walk 
began under a pink, purple and white balloon arch 
as the “Rocky” theme, “Gonna Fly Now,” played overhead.
On Sunday afternoon, the organization had 
raised about $60,000 for the March of Dimes, about the same as the last year, said Andrea Cabassa, the president of Gators March for Babies. The money goes to support premature babies in hospitals and research for new technology. Cabassa said people are still sending money in through checks. 
This year’s walk had interactive booths, including 
face-painting, rafﬂ  es and photobooths, the 20-year-old said. Attendees also decorated cards for parents of premature babies staying in UF Health Shands Hospital. About 1,000 people registered to attend the event, Cabassa said. About 500 people attended.
Cabassa, a UF psychology junior, said she has 
been volunteering for the March of Dimes since she was in high school. Her younger cousin was born at 28 weeks old, and developed cerebral palsy as a result.
“He really inspired me to ﬁ  ght for babies that 
can’t ﬁ  ght for themselves,” she said.
Perri Lyles, a 23-year-old UF business administra-
tion senior, said she participated in the event for the ﬁ  rst time with the Dancin’ Gators. She said she was excited to support the cause. 
“I just wanted to make sure that the children and 
the babies of these families are getting everything they need,” she said. March for 
Babies raises about $60,000
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In an effort to advocate for more fund-
ing for the National Science Foundation, UF 
President Kent Fuchs invited Congressman Ted Yoho to UF.
Yoho visited UF on Friday morning to 
learn more about the NSF-funded research projects.
Fuchs, who is one of the members of 
NSF’s Science Board, said UF received about $51,315,000 in NSF funding last year. He said there are about 378 active grants at UF under this program and 62 active NSF Graduate Research Fellows.
Fuchs said the goal of the conference 
with Yoho was to educate elected ofﬁ  cials about the importance of the NSF. At the conference, about six students and six fac-ulty members displayed their research proj-ects for Yoho.
“This agency is not mission-focused, it 
wants to make discoveries of science that will have an impact either in understanding the world we live in or in the economy,” Fuchs said. 
Fuchs said an increase in funding will 
help the nation become competitive in re-search.
“I think we don’t have enough imagina-
tion to ﬁ  gure out what could possibly hap-pen if there was even more funding,” he said.
Yoho said it’s time to push for more re-
search and development funding. He said China is investing heavily in research, and he expects them to get ahead of the U.S.
“The research you’re doing, make it 
long-term,” he said to the students. “Our country is depending on you.”One graduate student asked Yoho about 
the recent tax plan, which will require grad-uate students to pay taxes on tuition waiv-ers as income, according to nprEd.
Christopher Clukay, a UF anthropology 
doctoral student, said he wanted to voice his concerns to the congressman.
“The NSF covered me well enough 
where I will be one of the lucky few,”  he said. “It will hurt me on the tax plan, but it won’t hurt me that much.”
The 26-year-old said he was worried 
about other graduate students who cannot afford the costs associated with the new plan.“Most grad students I know can’t do 
that, so it’ll result in grad students dropping out nationwide,” he said.
In the conference, Yoho said the condi-
tion is not yet ﬁ  nal, and it may be removed. Clukay said he was unsure of how he felt about the congressman’s answer.
“I feel like he wants to do something 
and if he had total control, it would be OK, but I feel like I’m not sure he’s willing to go against his party leadership over it,” he said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgYoho visits UF to discuss National 
Science Foundation research
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Congressman T ed Yoho and UF President Kent Fuchs discuss the process of the 
National Science Foundation conference before it begins. Fuchs invited Yoho to visit UF on Friday.
A P A R T M E N T S • ONLY $99 MOVE-IN FEES when 
you tour and sign within 2'i hours 
Immediate move in available 
Walking distance to 
UF campus and midtown 
352.371.7777 I 303 NW 17m ST. SUITE A 
C0LLEGEPARKGAINESVILLE .C0M IICl[m)D "Limited time 
offer. Subject 
to change. 
LIVE ROYALLY 
• Great amenities and all the extras you deserve 
• Close to campus, shopping 
and restaurants 
• 1, 2 & 3 bedroom floorplans 
2777 SW Archer Rd.• 352.377.2777 • oxfordmanor .org l)rJ~D & SI WE ARE TI\AT CLOiE TO CAMPUi 
Choose great amenities and /'\~ ifU1_ 
all-inclusive living just 43 steps V.: Santa,;e "'(/' 
from Santa Fe campus. Text or call 352.379.9300 
3 & 4 BEDROOMS starting at s42g thecrossingatsantafe.com 
Prices and specials subject to change. IJ £J (ml a 
BRING THIS IN FOR WAIVED FEES, A $250 VALUE! 
Just steps from dining, shopping and nightlife and A IJ .L r ,, .. rtu: L."Cl--lv J, a;re, 
only 1.3 miles to UF, Arlington Square and Wisteria 
Downs offers our residents VIP status. Contact us 
today and see for yourself. 7 A/. .L • D // v l6 ce.n,t:v IJ-(f.J7l6 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482
Locals don’t have Winter Break
DEADLINE: Wed, Nov. 29
RUNDATE: Wed, Dec. 6
Our Local Living Edition is the best place to position your advertisements for the  local market. This paper prints on the last day of the semester, when students are getting ready to leave town, and remains in racks throughout the break. The locals aren’t going anywhere, so maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the fall semester. Map-spotting is included! Save 5% when you pay with cash or check.Worried your business might take  
a break with the students?
A DEVASTATING 
EARTHQUAKE STRUCK 
THE AREA SUNDAY.
Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Unable to focus on the Power-
Point that could turn him into an ofﬁ  cial doctorate student at UF, Ehsan Fereyduni broke down cry-ing.
The 33-year-old was scrolling 
through his Instagram account Wednesday morning when he came across a video of a child’s birthday party that was abruptly interrupted by a massive earth-quake.
“There was a hole in the wall 
but you could see balloons in-side the house still,” he said. “My heart became heavy. I couldn’t keep watching. I was thinking, ‘Why did this happen?’”
The video was one of many 
social media posts illustrating the aftermath of an earthquake along the Iran-Iraq border Sunday. The disaster is the deadliest earth-quake in 2017, killing nearly 500, according to CNN. At UF, about 20 students met on Turlington Plaza under a starless night sky Friday to show support for the victims. 
People surrounded a cement 
block table covered with a black plastic mantelpiece and about 30 lit candles. They talked among themselves, trying to make sense of the catastrophe.
Fereyduni, a UF chemistry doc-
toral student, said the past week has been rough for him. He has been struggling to process the di-saster that struck his native coun-try, Iran, while still studying for an oral exam needed to continue pursuing his doctorate. 
After crying for about an hour 
Wednesday, he messaged the Ira-nian Student Association asking them to hold a memorial event, he said. The UF student organization agreed to ﬁ  le the space permit and use their funds for the vigil, said Hossein Mosavi, the group’s vice president. 
“It’s our moral responsibility to 
show support to our community,” the 26-year-old UF civil engineer-ing doctoral student said.  
Although Fereyduni was feeling 
a little insecure before taking it, he said he passed his test Thursday morning and felt relieved.
Unfortunately, the burden from 
the tragedy back home continued. 
“If I pull my phone out and see 
Instagram right now, it is full of photos of the earthquake,” Ferey-duni said during the vigil, reach-ing for his phone in the back pocket of his jeans to show the stream of new, disastrous pictures appearing every second.
Fereyduni said he knows the 
event won’t take away his pain completely, but he hopes it will serve as the ﬁ  rst step toward re-covery.
“Talking to people and pray-
ing helps,” he said. “We can’t be there, but at least we can send prayers and positive things for the people who were affected by it.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUF Students send 
prayers to Middle EastTHE EVENT HAD 22 PIES 
READY FOR RUNNERS.
By Anna Cappelli 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Darielle Costa devoured a 
slice of pumpkin pie and blue-
berry pie after running a mile on Hume Field.
The 18-year-old UF biochem-
istry freshman participated in the Florida Running Club’s fourth-annual pie run Sunday, where runners pay $5 to run a mile and then get all-you-can-eat pie.
“I came hungry,” Costa said.About 40 students partici-pated, said Justin Bausch, the running club’s president and a 20-year-old UF electrical en-gineering junior. He said there were 22 pies of all ﬂ  avors at the event, some bought and some donated. 
Last year, the club tried hav-
ing the event on Pi Day, March 14, but decided hosting it around Thanksgiving would bring a bet-ter turnout. This year they also promoted it to people outside of the club, Bausch said. 
“We want to create an in-
clusive atmosphere, whether you’ve never run a day in your life or you’ve been running since you came out of the womb,” he said.
After the initial mile-long run 
was over, three teams of runners competed in a pie relay, where one person would run then eat a slice of pumpkin pie, then the next person would run and eat a slice, and so on. 
Costa’s team, The Lady 
Gators, won the relay event. Each team member got their own pie.
“It’s a lot of fun to have peo-
ple come out, run and eat pie af-terward,” Bausch said. “It really helps getting into the Thanksgiv-ing spirit.”
UF club oﬀ  ers pie buﬀ  et for runners
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Matt Bauer, a 26-year-old UF materials engineering graduate student, takes a bite of an apple pie 
after ﬁ  nishing second at the Thanksgiving Pie Run on Sunday evening on Hume Field.
MAKE 
THE 
MOST 
OF 
YO R 
VVORLD 
We teach in classrooms, 
help entrepreneurs take their 
businesses online, build apps 
to share healthcare informat ion, 
and more. If you are inspired 
by impact that is hands-on, 
grassroots-driven and lasting, HURRICANE 
ALTERNATORS, STARTERS & BATTERIES 
$5 OFF ANY REPAIR 
ORSERVICE = 
378-4440 BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608Century 21 Elite LocationsCall Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band-mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      11-20-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils & internet incl. Grad student preferred. Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail:  classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edr •••• •:• :••:: .~ •••• .. . ... . .. .. .. ' . ··: . . . . . 
:= ~~ . • •• : . .. . .. . .. . . . . '-••••••• : •·..-.JI MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's PlaceExperience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience preferred. Must have director's credential. Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.
Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgACROSS
1 Gospel truth
5 Previous time of
life
9 Broadway bombs
14 Southwestern
stewpot
15 Texter’s modest
“I think ... ”
16 Choosing rhyme
starter
17 Hand from the
audience
20 Actor __ Ivory
Wayans
21 Castle barrier22 Con man’s
sucker
23 Robert of “The
Sopranos”
25 Is the right size27 Group one likes
to hang with
34 Prefix with logical35 Shrunken Asian
sea
36 Braid37 Jump39 Blue cartoon
papa
42 “Zip-__-Doo-Dah”43 Clear, as an
argument
45 Holiday trees47 “Hometown
Proud”supermarketchain
48 Area in which
one has power
52 Royal sari wearer53 Indian nurse54 Plugs for
products
57 Swallow hard59 Frightened, in
dialect
63 1970
Temptations hitwith the subtitle“That’s What theWorld Is Today”
66 Sing like Bing67 Actress Jessica68 Creative spark69 Frets70 Close at hand71 Droops like an
old sofaDOWN
1 Road split2 Skin soother3 Game with
suspects
4 Kind of acid in
red wine
5 First settlers6 Big initials in
bowling
7 Bedding
accessory
8 Fill to the brim9 Soft penpoint
10 Pasture11 Responsibility12 Italian tower town13 Ooze18 Singer Reese19 Two of a kind24 Wander26 Actress Ward27 Basic anatomy
units
28 Freeze over29 Insect trapped in
a “motel”
30 Pillow down, say31 Low point32 San __ Padres33 Take illegally38 Jetty40 Costa __
41 How the wise
men came
44 Fire-breathing
beasts
46 Major mix-up
49 Sufficient, in texts50 Tin Man’s need51 Grad student’s
paper
54 Grade school
basics55 Pointed pub flier
56 __ gin fizz
58 Flag holder60 Verdi title
princess
61 “Walkabout”
director Nicolas
62 Genetic carriers64 Weather map
“L”
65 Org. with Lakers
and Clippers
By Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette
(c)2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/20/1711/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Buy in quantity
8 Places of rapid
growth
15 Commiserate16 One taking the
prize
17 Evidential
standard
19 Old Egyptian
symbol of royalty
20 Former Defense
secretary whowrote “WorthyFights”
21 __ scan22 Pronoun not
heard as often asit should be
24 2016 presidential
candidate
25 British art house26 Player over 21,
perhaps
28 Common base29 __ Hebrides30 Large beer mugs32 Ones in their 40s,
e.g.
34 Crime scene
barrier
35 Squeezed (out)36 Greet warmly39 One convinced
by a drive
42 Chekov’s first
name on “StarTrek”
43 #4 at Boston
Garden
45 “__ Got Mail”46 Said yes to47 Monty Python
product
49 Trickle50 Kricfalusi cartoon
canine
51 Taking away53 Sign at a popular
play
54 Foil-wrapped
treats
57 Winner of the
Breaking NewsReportingPulitzer for 2016,briefly
58 Most loaded59 Exam involving
reading letters
60 Chicken requests
DOWN
1 Hard-to-read
words
2 Ballerina’s
footwear
3 Happy way to
end
4 IRA options
5 Surgeon general
under Reagan
6 __ nerve7 A toy piano is
often seen in it
8 Uncertain9 Have because of
10 Cry with a
flourish
11 Main man12 More than just
stabs
13 Con, half the time14 They may be
Irish
18 Neuwirth of
“Cheers”
23 Got the gold, say25 Black-tie wear27 Turn back
29 In tune31 Pastoral expanse33 Sea scavenger36 Trivia quiz
website
37 What some do
while the sunshines?
38 Rigging support39 Words of wisdom40 Hillary’s conquest41 Announces
again, in a way
44 Heart47 Two-time US
Open winner
48 Hindu ascetic51 Cooking apple
named for anOhio township
52 Minute parasites55 Op. __56 Doo-wop syllable
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/18/1711/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, November 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. In 2016, Baltimore’s Manny 
Machado became the second player in 
major-league history to homer in each of the first three innings of a game. Who did it first?
2. Who was the first pitcher to win 
an All-Star Game in both leagues?
3. Matt Ryan set an Atlanta Falcons 
team record in 2016 by throwing for 503 yards in a game. Who had held the mark?
4. The Oregon men’s basketball 
team in 2017 swept its Bay Area Pac-12 rivals for only the second time since 1976. Who are the two rivals?
5. When was Pittsburgh’s Sidney 
Crosby’s last Stanley Cup Finals goal scored before 2017?
6. Name the first husband-and-wife 
soccer couple to tally goals for the U.S. national team.
7. When was the last time before 
2017 that the U.S. won the world men’s freestyle wrestling team title?
Answers
1. Carl Reynolds of the Chicago 
White Sox in 1930.
2. Vida Blue won for the A.L. in 
1971 and the N.L. in 1981.
3. Ryan, with 443 yards passing in a 
game in 2014.
4. California and Stanford.5. It was Game Four versus Detroit 
in 2009.
6. Dom Dwyer and Sydney Leroux.7. It was 1995.
© 2017 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 20, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
~ St. Francis House 
~ 
rts 
by Chris Richcreek 
Hasbro and its logo, SCRABBLE ®, associated logo, the design of the distinctive SCRABBLE brand 
game board, and the distinctive letter tile designs are trademarks of Hasbro in the United States and 
Canada. ©2017 Hasbro. All rights reserved. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. 
□□□□□□□ ~[§]~~[Q~~ 
□□□□□□□ ~ [Q;J ~ ~ ~ cg ~ ~~i1~etter 
□□□□□□□ 
~~~~~[§]~ 
□□□□□□□ ~ [§] [§] ~ ~ ~ lliiJ ~~~~1~core □ RACK 1 
□ RACK2 
□ RACK3 
□ RACK4 
PAR SCORE 145-155 
BEST SCORE 206 FOUR RACK TOTAL 
TIME LIMIT: 20 MIN 
DIRECTIONS: Make a 2-to ?-letter word from the letters in each row. Add points 
of each word, using scoring directions at right. Finally, ?-letter words get 50-point 
bonus. "Blanks" used as any letter have no point value. All the words are in the 
Official SCRABBLE ® Players Dictionary, 5th Edition. SOLUTION TOMORROW 
For more information on tournaments and clubs, email NA SPA-North American SCRABBLE 
PlayersAssociationinfo@scrabbleplayers.org.Visitourwebsite-www.scrabbleplayers.org. 
For puzzle inquiries contact scrgrams@gmail.com 11-20 12   ALLIGATOR    MOND AY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     12-6-14-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization (MTPO) for the GainesvilleUrbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: December 4, 2017 at 5:00 
p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website atwww.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation – MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67 th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Mike Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.      11-20-1-20
1.  Delight
1.  Pulled5.  Video ____
2.  Riot, storm6.  Nimble
3.  Enduring 7.  Combined
4.  Off trackRTLHIL
ETDGUGSAGME
EIGAL
AAEGRMP
ANSTGLIEERMGD
LEFDAIANSWERS: 1A-Thrill  5A-Games  6A-Agile  7A-Merged
1D-Tugged  2D-Rampage  3D-Lasting  4D-Afield  B-Magellan11-20-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person was born in 1480.
BONUS
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
MOST WANTED 
Alfred 
Spaulding 
Black Male 
DOB 2/3/1987 
5'7", 195 lbs 
Black Hair 
Brown Eyes 
Wanted for: 
Felony battery and 
burglary with assault 
or battery 
CRIAMI 
STOPPERS 
Call (352) 372-STOP HOCUS-FOCUS BY 
HENRY BOLTINOFF 
\I,-
Find at least six differences in details between panels. 
v,-
.__,v 
..._\// 
·oo,ssiw s, u6!s ·9 ·oo,ssiw S! ad!,qS l&Wl8H ·s ·6u!SS!W s, 4see1 ·v weJew.p 
s, JeqwnN ·e ·iueJ8w.P s, ;-ee s,ooa ·c:: ·6u,SS!w S! ~ 6u!MS · ~ :S80\JeJew.a 
24 HOCUS FOCUS puzzles $3.50 • 24 Volumes• Order at rbmamall.com u 
C 
"O 
C 
Ji 
Cl) 
~ :::, 
<ii 
Q) 
LL 
Cl 
C sz 
r----
0 (\J 
@ I stRABBLE 1 [§J~~~~ SOLUTION 
IA1 I IR1I IM31 [Q [§] ~ ~ RACK1 = 59 
~~~[Q~~~ RACK2= 63 
~ ~ [§] ~ ~ ~ □ RACK3= 10 
1B31 ~I ID2I IM3I IA1I [TI[§] RACK4= 74 
PAR SCORE 145-155 TOTAL 206 
Hasbro and its logo, SCRABBLE®, associated logo, the design of the distinctive SCRABBLE brand 
game board, and the distinctive letter tile designs are trademarks of Hasbro in the United States and 
Canada. ©2017 Hasbro. All rights reserved. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. 
1, Delight 
5, Video 
16, Nimble 
7, Combinl8ld 
1, Pulll8ldl 
2, Riot storm 
3, Enduring 
4, On tmck RTLHIL 
SAG ME 
EI GAL 
EERMGD 
ETDGUG 
AAEGRMP 
AN STG LI 
LEFDAI 
This person was bom in 1480, 
0000000101 
H I Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and OW to p ay unscrambl ing the answers, When the puzzle is complete, 
unscramble the circled letters to sofve the BONUS, 
UEIIJ:.iilili"j-g l"l:;;,!JV-av iiUJ'.'.1-GEl1-a£ :;;,(i1,1du.1Er;j-az: 1":;;,(i(in1-m ©2017TribuneContentAgency, LLC 
Jr.lliiJ:;;,l"l-Vl :<J!liiV-V9 G:>LUE19-V9 ll!J4l-VL '9~3M9NV &Hoyt Designs. All Rights Reserved. 
Send comments to TCA-435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@ao l.com. Florida freshman Deanne Rose 
scored a game-winning goal Sunday to send the Gators soccer team to the Elite Eight. Read the game story, pg. 16.Gators men's basketball team off to 3-0 start
Florida guard Jalen Hudson scored a game-high 26 points on Sunday as the  
Gators beat New Hampshire, 70-63, in the O'Connell Center to open the 
Phil Knight Invitational (named after the founder of Nike). For more about the game, see pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Sentimentality crept through Florida’s 
locker room after the team’s win over UAB 
on Saturday. Finally, after six weeks and 
ﬁ  ve games without a win, the Gators could 
celebrate. And they did. 
Cheers, high-ﬁ  ves and hugs dotted 
the landscape of Florida Field as players 
laughed and smiled while the band played the school’s ﬁ  ght song following what felt like an endless chasm of dread. 
When that subsided, defensive tackle 
Taven Bryan lumbered to the team meet-ing room under Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, 
where reporters waited to speak with him. 
He had something to say. It started with 
praise for interim coach Randy Shannon 
and interim defensive coordinator Chris Rumph. 
“This thing was the Titanic,” he added. 
“Those guys have been patching it.”
Patching the 2017 Florida football sea-
son is a bit like slapping a bandage on a 
corpse. This team failed to meet its goals 
for the season, and its players know that. But their 36-7 win over the Blazers gives 
them some hope. Some light. Some inkling 
that maybe, just maybe, they can resur-
rect that corpse with more than a simple 
bandage, which is all the win over UAB 
really was: a masking agent for something 
already dead.
But a win this Saturday over Florida 
State — that could be a deﬁ  brillator. That 
could jolt the season back to life.
The Gators haven’t beaten the Semi-
noles since 2012, meaning last season’s 
seniors — players like Jarrad Davis, Joey Ivie and Ahmad Fulwood — never did. 
This season’s seniors — players like Bran-
don Powell, Duke Dawson and DeAndre 
Goolsby — want to feel what their prede-With new momentum, Gators can save sinking ship vs. FSU
Jessica Rodriguez / Alligator 
Sophomore running back Lamical Perine was part of a rejuvenated UF rushing attack that exploded for a season-best 257 rushing yards 
in a win against the UAB Blazers. Florida's win on Saturday snapped a ﬁ  ve-game losing streak to give UF a lift before facing Florida State.
Please, save me your sighs.
This will not be a column advocating for 
Randy Shannon to be Florida’s next coach. 
I do not want athletic director Scott Strick-
lin to halt his coaching search, turn away from free agent Chip Kelly, spurn UCF hot-shot Scott Frost and instead hand Shannon 
a four-year deal. I do not think Shannon 
will be the next coach, and I don’t think he should be.
Seriously, think about it: An offensive-
starved team making a defensive-minded 
ex-linebackers coach its new leader? A 
guy who went 28-22 in four seasons as the head coach at Miami before being ﬁ  red? Can you imagine the outrage from the fans? The 
boosters? The media? 
But as much as I think giv-
ing Shannon the job would be 
misguided, there is one other 
group of people that needs to 
be considered in this equation. One other group that — in the middle of coaching searches full of fabri-cated rumors and silly speculation and 
hyperventilating fan bases — usually gets 
forgotten.The players.I have heard from too many 
of them over the last three 
weeks about their praise — 
and yes, even love — for Shan-non. I have heard impassioned defenses of his coaching abil-
ity and his leadership. I have 
heard opinions too shockingly and unnecessarily strong to be 
anything but completely honest. I have heard genuine extolling of a man that they 
care for.
But enough about what I’ve heard. Read for yourself.
“Coach Shannon alone changed a lot of 
things,” receiver Brandon Powell said.
“Without (him), this thing was the Ti-
tanic,” defensive lineman Taven Bryan 
said.
“We play our best for (him),” lineback-
er David Reese said.
“I really wish they would just stop look-
ing and just give him the head coaching job,” running back Mark Thompson said.
But wait. Pause. To assume that all of Making the case for Randy Shannon as Florida's next full-time football coachIt's Cohen Down / Opinion
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 18
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 18Florida 36 UAB 7
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
MEN’S BASKETBALL: UF 70, UNH 63
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
Nearly nine minutes into the ﬁ  rst half, the 
Gators swung the ball around the perimeter 
and into the hands of Egor Koulechov.
The graduate transfer rose up over a New 
Hampshire defender, released and sunk the 
three-pointer.
In a game in which buckets were hard to 
come by, timely shots helped the No. 8 Gators 
squeak past the Wildcats, 70-63, in the open-
ing game of the Phil Knight Invitational at the 
O’Connell Center.
“Probably a little bit overly comfortable 
coming into this one,” coach Mike White said 
of the win. “Feeling ourselves a little bit, so 
hopefully it’ll be good for us.”
Before Koulechov’s make from beyond the 
arc, the Gators missed ﬁ  ve consecutive three-point attempts.
Overall, Florida (3-0) shot a paltry 32.1 
percent from the ﬂ  oor and 16.7 percent from 
behind the arc.
The ﬁ  rst half started and ended in an of-
fensive slog for Florida, and the lead shifted 
hands between the home and away team. The 
Gators ended the half missing their last eight attempts from the ﬁ  eld.
Several UF players struggled to get any-
thing going offensively. It was an uncharacter-istic performance for a team that scored over 
100 points in its ﬁ  rst two games.
“You have nights like that,” senior point 
guard Chris Chiozza said. “We gotta get to a point where when those shots aren’t going in, we can rely on our defense.”
Junior guard KeVaughn Allen made just 
one of his seven shot attempts through the 
ﬁ  rst 20 minutes, while redshirt junior Jalen 
Hudson— who was averaging 14 points com-ing into the night — tallied only four points on 1-of-3 shooting in the opening half.
Both teams went into the locker room knot-
ted at 32. New Hampshire shot 34.4 percent, but stayed alive thanks to four three-pointers, 
two from guard John Ogwuche.
Meanwhile, Florida ﬁ  nished the half with 
Koulechov as the only player to make more than one ﬁ  eld goal.
To begin the second frame, the Gators 
came out with a new level of energy. Chiozza muscled his way inside the lane for a layup on 
the opening possession, then rattled home a 
three-pointer on the next trip down the court.
However, the Wildcats (1-2) refused to lie 
down. A fall-away three from Ogwuche gave New Hampshire a 49-48 lead with 9:27 left. 
A few seconds later, Hudson cruised down 
the lane and slammed down a dunk, retaking 
the lead for Florida.
Hudson scored nine straight after the Og-
wuche make, hitting four free throws and nailing a three to give the Gators a six-point 
lead, 57-51.
Florida didn’t trail after that run.“I was just trying to win,” Hudson said. 
“That’s the most important thing, that’s what we all came here to do.”
Hudson scored 22 of his 26 points in the 
second half to lead Florida. Chiozza chipped 
in 12, while Koulechov added a double-dou-ble with 14 points and 10 rebounds.
While the team slightly raised its offensive 
efforts in the second half, it only recorded three total assists, showcasing a stagnation in its ball distribution. 
“I think it’s probably good for our guys,” 
White said of the win. “We’ve got to get 
tougher. Our attention to detail, and our fo-
cus, especially defensively, has a ways to go.”
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org  Gators slip past New Hampshire with narrow home win
After the Gators attempted 54 
three-point shots in their ﬁ  rst two 
games of the regular season, it be-came clear they had a green light to shoot the ball whenever they 
pleased.
And early on — having made 
48.1 percent of those tries — it 
looked like it was working.
That’s not a bad thing. Who 
doesn’t love to see a team consis-tently drain shots from deep range?
It’s exciting for the fans, and 
hitting a key three-pointer could 
give a team some momentum.
However, shooting too many 
threes becomes an issue when the 
shots don’t fall. In their 70-63 win over New Hampshire on Sunday, the Gators experienced this ﬁ  rst-hand, especially in the ﬁ  rst half.
Florida shot 12.5 percent be-
hind the arc in its ﬁ  rst 20 minutes 
against the Wildcats, nailing just one three-pointer from Egor Kou-
lechov. For a team that shoots a lot of perimeter jumpers, that’s not a good sign. In the second half, the Gators didn’t shoot much better. They made two three-pointers on 
10 attempts, with Chris Chiozza 
making one and Jalen Hudson notching the other.
“We had good shots,” Kou-
lechov said. “Today, they didn’t fall.”
Don’t get me wrong, it’s not the 
end of the world when a player throws up an open three-point shot 
and misses. It becomes a problem, 
however, when players are con-stantly shooting from deep when its a contested or hurried shot.
Case in point, Florida had mo-
mentum after a huge dunk from Hudson in the second half, and the Gators were on a fastbreak follow-ing a steal from Kevarrius Hayes. 
Hayes dished the ball to Koulechov 
who was standing behind the arc. But rather than pushing the at-tack, Koulechov took a dribble and missed the ensuing three-pointer.
Those moments allowed Florida 
to realize it won’t put up 100-plus points every game and blowout all of its opponents, especially when 
it isn’t connecting on its shots.
“It was important for us to have this game,” Hudson said. “Deﬁ  -
nitely for them to smack us around 
a little bit, for us to come back 
down to Earth.”
While its play from mid-range 
and inside the paint was enough to solidify the win over the Wildcats in the end, that may not be the case when Florida starts playing tougher opponents, like the rest of the teams it will face in the Phil 
Knight Invitational.
UF coach Mike White stressed 
this after the game when asked 
about the need to ﬁ  nd another way to score if the deep shots aren’t going in. He said the win against New Hampshire proved the Gators can win a game while only going 3-of-18 on three-pointers, but if the 
game was against an SEC team, 
Florida’s defense would’ve been worrisome.
“It’s not going to be a constant,” 
White said. “We talked about that as much as anything else with this team, with our ability to really ﬁ  ll it up on certain nights. If that’s what happens, so be it.”
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator’s 
online sports editor. Contact him 
at jdreilinger@alligator.org. Florida keeps relying on three-pointers. That could be a problem later on.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Egor Koulechov recorded a double-double on Sunday, totaling 14 
points and 10 rebounds in UF’s win against New Hampshire at the O’Connell Center.
Jake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida struggled to sink three-pointers in its win on Sunday. UF guard Jalen Hudson (3) made just one of his four attempts from beyond the arc. 
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJakeMONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Pick-up your
Monday
Wednesday
FridayBy Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
By the time sophomore Jessica Pascoe 
reached the 2700-meter mark, the discomfort 
in her heel was too much to handle. Just un-der 11 minutes into the NCAA South Regional Championship on Nov. 10, Pascoe retired to the sidelines to nurse the stabbing pain in the back of her foot.
It would be Pascoe’s last meet of the season, 
with the women’s team ﬁ  nishing 22nd and the men ﬁ  nishing 15th in the event, putting both teams out of the running for the NCAA Cham-pionships.
“We’re not satisﬁ  ed, or I guess even that 
pleased with the overall team results,” assis-tant coach Chris Solinsky said.
The meet marked the men’s team’s ﬁ  rst 10K 
race of the season. Solinsky readied the team with a warning concerning the toughness and endurance of the run.
“Coach prepared us for that,” redshirt fresh-
man Marshall Dillon said. “He said ‘Expect it to be the worst pain you’ve ever felt, and anything less (than) that will be a pleasant surprise.’”
Though the teams did not advance to the 
NCAA Championships, both the men and women claimed top-10 ﬁ  nishes in the Moun-tain Dew Invitational and FSU Invitational. 
The Gators will now turn their focus to the 
indoor track and ﬁ  eld season, which begins in January. As the teams look forward to a two-week break, Solinsky sees the indoor track and ﬁ  eld season as the next step toward the teams’ success.
“I look at it as every season builds on itself,” 
he said. “What we do in cross (country) helps us in indoor, what we do in indoor helps us in outdoor, what we do in outdoor helps us for the next year’s cross country season.”  
The UF women’s team struggled with inju-
ries throughout the fall season. Solinsky is rely-ing on the two-week break to heal some of the minor and major afﬂ  ictions the runners have dealt with.
“Even if we have a few issues on-going, 
we’ll make sure to be smart on how we start training and hopefully put all this behind us,” Solinsky said. “(We’re) looking forward, not behind.”
Included in this list is Pascoe, who struggled 
the past couple of weeks with pain in the heel and arch of her foot. A foot injury is nothing new for the Australia native, who dealt with tendonitis at the close of last year’s cross coun-try season. After sitting out for the 2017 track season, Pascoe doesn’t plan to let her current position stop her from running with the Gators this year. She expects to make her return in January, this time with a new attitude that fo-cuses on the mental aspect of the race.
“(Looking) forward, one race isn’t going to 
deﬁ  ne me,” Pascoe said. “If I have to take time, a little bit longer than a two-week break, I will and just cross train, and I’ll get back.”
The Gators will begin training after Thanks-
giving for their ﬁ  rst meet at the Orange and Purple Classic, hosted by Clemson, on Jan. 6. Solinsky plans to emphasize more speed-ori-ented training as the team makes the switch to the indoor track season.
“The nice thing for our distance runners 
is they’re three-sport athletes,” Solinsky said. “It’s a labor of love. They’re constantly going, I would say, rain or shine, they’re out there training.” 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org
UF ‘not satisﬁ  ed’ with fall, looking ahead to track in spring
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Gators sophomore Jessica Pascoe had to drop out of the NCAA 
South Regional Championships on Nov. 10 with a heel injury. 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
The UF women’s cross country team ﬁ  nished 22nd in the NCAA South Regional Championships on Nov. 10. “We’re not satisﬁ  ed, or I guess even that pleased with the overall team results, ” coach Chris Solinsky said. 
CROSS COUNTRY
JUNGti 
FRIENDS JungleFriends.org 
"-illM~ volunteer@junglefriends.org 
PRIMATE SANCTUARY 
SAVING MONKEYS . PROMOTING COMPASSION 
We Need Volunteers! 
Every day of the week 
Sunup to Sundown (386) 462-7779 
I I I I 
I I I I I 
I I I I 
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve water ~eric~ 
t:@t•j'til 
Warehouse 
No admin fee with 
student I. D. 
Second month free 
on 5x10 
352-377-7 600 
3728 N. Main St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609 _,~NPA'fl:11 P 600 NW 5th Ave. 
,1-1 352-384-1008 
352-284-2319 (cell) 
Student Discount on ·w;d-n;;d-ay; 
$10 cut with Student ID 16   ALLIGATOR    MOND AY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
SOCCER: UF 1, WSU 0
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
Deanne Rose stood inside the Washing-
ton State box with open arms as her team-
mates rushed from the sidelines. The fresh-man had just scored in double overtime for her fifth game-winning goal of the season, helping Florida advance to the quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament. 
Rose’s goal concluded a match that last-
ed nearly 104 minutes, as the Gators edged the Cougars on Sunday afternoon at Donald R. Dizney Stadium, 1-0. 
UF started the match with a rocky de-
fensive performance, nearly allowing a goal when WSU forward Elyse Bennett sent a shot wide of the net on a breakaway chance in the 18th minute. The chance upset senior Gabby Seiler, who suggested to coach Becky Burleigh that she add a fourth defender to the back line.
“That’s called leadership,” Burleigh said 
of her captain. 
The switch in formations kept UF stable 
defensively, but the offense still struggled in the first half. 
The Cougars cut off Florida’s passes di-
rected into their box, quickly closing off crossing and shooting lanes before the Gators could pick them out. 
Consequently, the offense ran almost 
completely through Rose on the right wing, who registered UF’s only shot in the game’s first 60 minutes.
Her speed on the outside was uncon-
tainable. Rose won nearly every loose ball played her way and couldn’t be defended one-on-one. She caused WSU defender Mad-dy Haro to rack up a game-high five fouls, matching Florida’s team total. 
However, the Gators’ offense finally caught up to Rose as it found a flurry of chances, beginning with an opportunity in the middle of the second half.
Sophomore Tess Sapone rattled off UF’s 
first shot since early in the match in the 65th minute, and a headed effort by junior Sarah Troccoli in the 71st minute drifted just wide of the far post. The spell of chances conclud-ed with a Seiler strike that glanced off the crossbar in the 73rd minute.
“In the second half, thanks to some lead-
ership on the field, we started to play our game,” Burleigh said. “Once we started do-ing that, I really felt like it was our game.”
The inability of either team to convert on 
its shots pushed the match into overtime. 
A sprawling save by goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese in the second minute of overtime prevented the Cougars from finding a quick winner and kept UF in the match.
On the other end, Rose found herself 
alone in the box with a chance to beat WSU goalkeeper Ella Dederick, but her shot at-tempt sailed over the bar. 
“When I missed that shot I was upset,” 
Rose said. “The encouragement of my team-mates just kept me going.”
But in the second overtime, she re-
deemed herself. 
Four minutes into the period, junior Lais 
Araujo slipped a ball into the path of Rose. She took one touch and buried a shot into the bottom corner, this time beating Deder-ick one-on-one and sealing the victory with a golden goal. 
“This win isn’t just for the team now, it’s 
for the teams in the past three, four years,” Seiler said. “We’ve worked our way to this point and we’ve finally broken through.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGame-winning goal vs. Cougars sends Gators to Elite Eight
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators forward Deanne Rose scored the only goal in UF’s 1-0 win over Washington State on 
Sunday. The goal came 104 minutes into a Sweet 16 matchup at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
ssoo 
UNIQUE 2&3 BEDROOM 
TOWNHOMES + PRIVATE BATHS 
BURSTING WITH AMENITIES! .. •tt• .. cobblestone 
A P A R T M E N T S 
IJClml 
CobblestoneGainesville .com I 352.377.2801 I 2801 NW 23rd Blvd 
collegemanor .org 
352.372.7111 
1216 SW 2nd Ave 
Schedule your tour today! cessors weren’t able to. 
“It would mean everything to me,” Powell 
said. 
It would also mean a lot to his teammates 
to help him experience that win when, so far, 
his senior season has consisted of memories to forget rather than cherish. 
“We just want to send those guys out with 
a good win,” sophomore running back Lami-cal Perine said. “There’s going to be a whole lot of fans coming out for that game. It’s going to be a nice game.”Even with a win against FSU, it’s unclear if 
the Gators (4-6, 3-5 SEC) would accept a bowl invitation with a losing record — their second in 38 years. So it’s likely the Sunshine Show-down will be some players’ last time taking the ﬁ  eld in orange and blue. 
And even if not, younger players also want 
to break the four-year losing streak to the Seminoles (4-6, 3-5 ACC). Perhaps none more so than quarterback Feleipe Franks, who said he grew up ﬁ  ve minutes from Doak Campbell Stadium and whose father studied at FSU.
He doesn’t even know if he’s going to play, 
with Malik Zaire — who started over Franks against Missouri and South Carolina but suf-fered a PCL bruise against the Gamecocks — slated to return from his injury. Regardless, for someone who played high school football about 40 minutes south of Tallahassee, this game means something extra. 
“That’s just gonna be the icing on the 
cake,” Franks said. “Sending these guys out right... It’ll be a fun time.”
Like the bandage on the corpse or the patch 
on the Titanic, the icing on this season’s cake is like the icing on a cold mess of dough that wasn’t baked properly. The same could be said for the Seminoles, who entered this sea-son ranked No. 3 before their starting quar-terback, Deondre Francois, was injured in the season opener and sidelined for the year. Since then, the Seminoles have imploded. 
But like Florida, the Florida State was able 
to build some momentum with a 77-6 win over Delaware State on Saturday. Now, the Semi-noles want to use that momentum to extend their winning streak over the Gators to ﬁ  ve.
Florida, of course, wants to use their own 
momentum to end that streak. To resurrect the corpse, ice the cake and reverse the sinking ship. 
“They’ve got some good repairmen on that 
Titanic this time,” Bryan said. “They learned from their mistakes. They’re patching it and we’re ﬂ  oating.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org 
Gators haven't beaten Seminoles since 2012Florida’s players want Shannon 
as their next coach would be ir-responsible, not to mention ﬂ  at-out wrong. Many of them would undoubtedly be excited by the ar-rival of Chip Kelly or one of sev-eral other candidates. 
But there is no denying that a 
signiﬁ  cant group of Florida play-ers want Shannon to continue as their coach, and there are many more who deeply care for the man and how he has affected their lives.
And some of the players are 
irritated. Irritated that Shannon isn’t seriously being considered for the vacancy, that fans and media are hearing their kind en-dorsements but laughing them off as foolish and uninformed and, frankly, stupid.
So here is the defense for Shannon. Here is what some UF players think. 
As the majority of the media 
mobilizes to hype up manufac-tured coaching rumors, pouncing on any mediocre morsel of Chip Kelly Twitter gossip that can serve as potential clickbait for a rumor-roundup article, here is one story that hopefully represents what some of the players think. 
Not the fans or the boosters or 
the media, but the people whose lives will be affected the most by all of this. The players.
So, do I think their prayers 
will be answered, and Shannon will be named as the next Florida Gators coach?
Hell no.But everyone deserves a voice.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.org.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Some Florida players have advocated for UF interim coach Randy Shannon to stay on as UF's full-time head coach in 2018. "Just give him the head coaching job, " running back Mark Thompson said. 
Could Randy Shannon 
be UF's next head coach?
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13COLUMN,  from pg 1318   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2017
~e eO 
o-W~r I< Grill 
HOUSE 
WEDNESDAY 
LADIES NIGHT 
LADIES NIGHT 
Free Drinks for Ladies 
--Live DJ--. .. STHE"'IAL . •·· ·• ,•· .... 0 .... .9·0·-~c;:>~ ~--;:~ 9, · ~=;:•~~0:4.-·~ a\) - ~llllllllllliii iiiiiii. • ~-· o V 
• Q •-:~. . aT mlDTOWn 'S_!)Q ~ .• 
• . ; restaurant & rooftop bar · =-r • O • 
rfff) .....--------___,..,~ . • 
11 am-4pm 
WEDNESDAY 
Filet & Chorizo 
Quesadilla 
THURSDAY 
Cajun Chicken Pasta 
1728 West University Avenue INSIDE
Florida’s senior class has a chance to do something that its previous class     
never accomplished: beating Florida State. 
ONLINE
Stay up to date on Gators sports over Thanksgiving break by following 
@alligatorSports on Twitter and visiting alligator.org/sports. 
SENIOR 
SENDOFF
-.. 
i' • .,r! •~P, 
"Lili ■ i.i~-.r#W 
---------allija'.t'Or---------DL Jordan 
Sherit 
Before suffering a season-ending 
hip injury against Texas A&M on 
Oct. 14, Jordan Sherit was the old-est and most experienced member of Florida’s defensive line. 
He was the unquestioned leader 
of the young group, the one whom teammates affectionately called “Papo” — a Cuban term that Sherit said means “bro” — a nod to his heritage.
Sherit has 7.5 sacks and 11.5 
tackles for loss through his UF ca-reer.QB Malik 
Zaire 
After transferring to UF from 
Notre Dame over summer, Ma-
lik Zaire competed for the Gators’ starting QB job before losing out to Feleipe Franks. 
Zaire’s most memorable moment 
for Florida came in UF’s loss to Geor-gia. As UF trailed 42-0, Zaire led a 71-yard fourth-quarter drive to score Florida’s lone touchdown of the game. 
Zaire heads into his last game at 
UF with two starts, 388 yards of total offense, no touchdowns and one in-terception in a Gators uniform.
TE DeAndre 
Goolsby 
DeAndre Goolsby has been one of 
Florida’s top offensive weapons over 
the past two seasons. 
His best game came against Ala-
bama in the 2016 SEC Champion-ship. Goolsby caught a 25-yard touchdown pass right before half-time to cut the Crimson Tide’s lead to 17 points. Goolsby ﬁ  nished the contest with 91 yards. 
Goolsby enters UF’s game Satur-
day against Florida State with 724 ca-reer receiving yards and ﬁ  ve touch-downs. WR Brandon 
Powell 
Brandon Powell has been one of 
Florida’s most reliable pass-catchers, 
with at least 300 receiving yards in each of the past three seasons. 
Powell’s biggest moment came in 
2015 when he caught a 77-yard touch-down to help defeat No. 3 Ole Miss by 28 points. He also converted two crucial third downs and found the end zone on a 6-yard run in UF’s fourth-quarter comeback against Kentucky in 2017. 
Powell is Florida’s active leader in 
career catches with 122 and heads into his ﬁ  nal game as a Gator with 1,255 receiving yards and nine total touch-downs.
P Johnny 
Townsend
Johnny Townsend has twice been 
named a semiﬁ  nalist for Ray Guy 
Award, given annually to the best col-lege punter in the country. Townsend became Florida’s all-time leader in punts during Florida’s 36-7 win against UAB on Saturday. He ranks second na-tionally in punting average this season at 47.93 yards per punt.
Townsend enters his ﬁ  nal game at 
UF with 10,827 career punting yards on 234 attempts.RB Mark 
Thompson   
Mark Thompson arrived in 2016 as 
a transfer from Dodge City Community 
College in Kansas. 
Thompson’s biggest play came 
when Florida faced Iowa in the 2017 Outback Bowl. Thompson caught a second-quarter screen pass and ran it 85 yards for a touchdown, breaking six tackles along the way and giving Florida a seven-point lead heading into halftime. 
Thompson heads into his last game 
at UF with 533 career rushing yards (4.6 per carry) and ﬁ  ve total touch-downs.
DB Duke 
Dawson 
Duke Dawson has been the lead-
er of Florida’s defensive backs and 
a veteran presence in a group com-posed of mostly underclassmen.
 He began his career at UF off 
with a bang, returning an intercep-tion for a touchdown in a 65-0 win against Eastern Michigan on Sept. 6, 2014.
Dawson heads into his ﬁ  nal 
game in a Gators uniform with 77 career tackles, 17 pass breakups and ﬁ  ve interceptions (including three pick-sixes).DB Marcell 
Harris 
Marcell Harris led Florida with 
73 total tackles in 2016 and was 
expected to play a key role in the team’s secondary this fall. 
However, Harris tore his right 
Achilles tendon in July at a team workout, ending his season before it even began.
Harris has 102 career tackles, 
four tackles for loss and two inter-ceptions.DB Nick 
Washington
Nick Washington ﬁ  gured to help 
ﬁ  ll the team’s leadership void after 
redshirt senior safety Marcell Harris suffered a season-ending injury in the summer, and played well through the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games with 29 total tackles. 
But he suffered a shoulder injury 
against LSU and has been sidelined ever since.
Washington has 107 career tackles, 
one pass breakup and one interception.
DB Cameron T own
 OL Ricardo Benalcazar
 LB Cristian Garcia
WR Jacob Mesenger
 DB Joseph Putu
 DB Garrett Stephens
ONE LAST TIME: Meet Florida’s seniors before FSU week 
The last week of the Gators’ regular season has arrived. Ahead of Florida’s season ﬁ  nale 
against Florida State on Saturday, meet the 15 seniors that the football team plans to honor:
2017 SEASON  
IN REVIEW: 
33-17, UM 28-27, UF 26-20, UF 38-24, UF 17-16 LSU
19-17, A&M 42-7, UGA 45-16, MIZZOU 28-20, USC 36-7, UFSATURDAY 
@ NOONGarrett Stephens has played in 
14 games, mostly on special teams, and blocked a punt in UF’s season opener against Michigan. 
Cristian Garcia joined Florida 
as a walk-on during the 2015 sea-son and has played in 24 career games, recording 25 total tackles. Joseph Putu transferred to UF 
last season from North Dakota State College of Science and has played in 19 games with the Gators, recording 19 tackles. 
Ricardo Benalcazar joined 
Florida in summer of 2015 and was a member of the Gators’ practice squad in 2016. Jacob Mesenger joined Florida as 
a walk-on in spring of 2017 and has yet to play in a game for the Gators.
Cameron Town joined Florida as 
a walk-on in spring of 2017 and has yet to play in a game for UF.
SEASON RECORD: 
4-6 OVERALL, 
3-5 SEC G T 
IS 
MISSOURI . fffl 
iHNllERBIL] \!1 