We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 108 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
Baseball team suﬀ  ers ﬁ  rst loss
Jacksonville came back to beat the Gators with 
a ninth-inning rally, pg. 13
Photographer discusses escape from al-Qaida
He’s the only known Westerner to have escaped the terrorist group, pg. 4
Find out where to vote for the SG elections
Students can vote for 11 proposed amendments, pg. 3FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorCAMPUS
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer
After ticket prices for Lil Wayne’s 
upcoming show at UF’s O’Connell 
Center were released Tuesday, Mela-
nie Tercilla wasn’t sure if she want-ed to go.
The O’Connell Center announced 
prices for the on April 4 show on the event’s Facebook page, which has 
more than 2,000 people listed as in-terested and more than 1,000 going. 
Tickets for UF students are $31, $42 and $63, depending on the level of the arena. General public tickets are $42, $62 and $73.
Tercilla wasn’t sure if the price 
was worth it. And she wasn’t alone, 
as scores of other users commented about their hesitance to spend so 
much for a show.“I don’t think 
I want to spend like $70 to get a 
good view of Lil Wayne at the Ste-
phen O’Connell 
Center, per se,” Tercilla said. “I think I’d rather 
just see him sometime else.”
Renee Musson, the associate di-rector of the O’Connell Center, wrote in an email that Lil Wayne is being paid $125,000 to perform, with fund-ing coming from ticket sales.
Student Government Productions 
will give a $10 ticket discount to the ﬁ  rst 2,500 UF students to purchase tickets, Musson said. According to Ticketmaster’s website, presale tick-
Some reconsider Lil Wayne concert after prices announced
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
From left: Ofﬁ  cer Ryan Foster rides Merlin and Cpl. Tracy Fundenburg rides Zeus. The two horses have 
been working for Gainesville Police’s mounted unit for about 10 years. On Tuesday, the horses retired.
By Courtney Moberley 
Alligator Contributing Writer
President Donald Trump’s travel 
ban still weighs heavily on the minds 
of three panelists who discussed prejudice against people of Muslim faith Tuesday night. 
About 25 people gathered in Us-
tler Hall for a discussion about xeno-
phobia, Islamophobia and the execu-
tive order banning travel from seven Muslim majority countries. Khurrum 
Wahid, Kenneth Nunn and Gwen-
dolyn Simmons spoke for about an 
hour and a half during the event, hosted by Emerge USA, a national 
nonproﬁ  t.
The travel ban, signed on Jan. 27, 
is history repeating itself, said Wa-
hid, the group’s national board co-
chair. The ban is similar to increased security and vetting measures that 
followed the 9/11 attacks.
“This is the least sophisticated 
way it’s been done,” he said. 
Trump’s administration should 
issue a new executive order as early as this week addressing legal issues 
regarding the original, he said. This 
time, green-card holders as well as 
people already in transit to the U.S. when the order is enacted will most 
likely be admitted into the country. 
The administration is also likely 
to add another non-Muslim country to the list to discredit claims that it’s 
a Muslim ban, Wahid said.
“This was not hidden at all 
throughout the campaign, and it  UF professors meet to discuss travel ban’s eﬀ  ect on MuslimsZEUS’ AND MERLIN’S 
LAST DAY WITH GPD
 WAS TUESDAY. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
For the past decade, downtown 
Gainesville, with its noisy bars and 
drunken crowds, has been charac-terized by a less well-known sound: 
the clip-clopping of police horses.
As a part of the Gainesville Police 
Mounted Patrol Unit, four horses 
are assigned to manage downtown crowds.
On Tuesday, the unit’s oldest 
members — 18-year-old Zeus and 19-year-old Merlin — took their ﬁ  -
nal walk as members of the force, 
their blue and silver badges pinned to their bridles.
Zeus, a Russian warmblood, and 
Merlin, an Irish draft and percheron cross, would typically work from late in the evening and early into the morning, handling crowd control and community relations, said GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
“When the downtown bars close 
at night there’s anywhere from 15 to 20,000 drunk people in the streets,” he said. “Studies have shown that two ofﬁ  cers on horseback is equiva-lent to 10 ofﬁ  cers on foot when it comes to crowd management.”
Over time, however, the two 
horses had become less willing to do their jobs, said Cpl. Tracy Funden-burg, who had been partners with Zeus for six and a half years. They lagged behind the others; retirement was the best choice.
“These horses have done a lot of 
work, but to them work is fun,” said Tobias, who worked with the horses 
during his three years with the MPU 
from 2007 to 2010. “Merlin and Zeus loved everything about their jobs, except Merlin and his dislike of manhole covers.”
Merlin will actively avoid man-
hole covers, he said.
“If we trick him and try to get  Police horses hang up 
hooves after 10 yearsSEE CONCERT,  PAGE 4
SEE HORSES,  PAGE 4
SEE PANEL,  PAGE 4Lil Wayne
About 25 people attendedStudent tickets are $31, $42 and $63 Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 108
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  73° LOW  60°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The UF Fine Arts College Council 
presents arts exhibition
The UF Fine Arts College Council is pleased to present the 2016-2017 FACC Student Juried Arts 
Exhibition now through March 
2 in the University Gallery. An opening reception will be held Friday from 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. with an awards presentation at 7 p.m. All events are free and open to the public.
Learning Fair at the UF Libraries 
The Smathers Libraries will hold a Digital Learning Fair at the UF Libraries on Thursday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library East, Room 100. Look for the balloons. Students can learn about the digital resources avail-able in the libraries, including 3-D printing, education-testing data-
bases, mapping tools, One Button 
Studio, digital newspapers and more. There will be free snacks and giveaways.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Sumi Ink Club The UF School of Art + Art History is proud to present visiting 
artist Sumi Ink Club on Thursday 
as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series. The lec-ture series is free and open to the public. The lecture will begin at 6 p.m. in Fine Arts Building B, Room 103. For more information visit arts.ufl.edu.
‘On the Edge: What Future for the 
African Sahel?’ Join the UF Sahel Research Group for the 2017 Gwendolen M. Carter Conference in African American Studies from Thursday through Sunday. All panels will be held in the Reitz Union, except for the first keynote lecture and the 
opening reception, which will be 
held at the Harn Museum of Art. Transportation to the museum will be provided. The conference is free and open to the public, but advance registration is kindly re-quested. For more information, visit sahelresearch.africa.ufl.edu. 
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Art BashArt Bash, the annual celebration of art at UF, will be held Friday from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Fine Arts Plaza and School of Art + Art History. For more informa-tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.
LGBTQ+ and disability discus-
sion “Queerness and Disability” is the second installment of UF LGBTQ Affairs’ semester-long lunch series. They will look to examine and understand the in-tersection of LGBTQ+ identities and disabilities, and they will ex-plore the overlap and similarity of oppressions related to differ-ent facets of these intersectional 
identities. This event is open 
to all people, whether you do or do not identify as LGBTQ+ or disabled, and will take place in the LGBTQ Affairs space in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs suite in the Reitz Union on Friday from noon to 1 p.m.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
THE
For 24 hours, The Amazing Give will raise money for local 
nonproﬁts through a single online donation platform — 
providing a simple way to connect donors to the charitable 
causes they care about most. Please consider a donation in support of our students, who learn about various aspects of the newspaper business through hands on experience.
March 29 - 30, 20171. Visit the website
theamazinggive.org
3. Type ‘ Alligator’
 in the search bar2. Click on see more 
participating org.
4. Click on our logo 
to see our page
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After she found out that UF had a Student 
Government, Gabriella Steele cast her ﬁ  rst-ev-
er ballot on Tuesday, one of about 4,482 stu-dents to do so on the ﬁ  rst day of SG elections.
The day’s turnout was low when com-
pared to last Spring’s ﬁ  rst day of elections. 
UF Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs said 
2,162 fewer votes were cast, down from 6,644 in Spring 2016.
Unlike last year’s election, Impact’s Stu-
dent Body presidential, vice presidential and treasurer candidates are all running unop-posed. 
Progress Party president Casey Witte at-
tributed the low turnout, in part, to a lack of advertising by the current SG administration.
“I feel like that’s a real failing on behalf 
of the current people in Student Govern-ment,” he said. “Right now it almost seems like they’re trying to hide that an election is going on.”
Steele, a UF entomology and nematology 
junior, was walking through Turlington Plaza when someone from Impact told her why her vote mattered. 
So she voted, breaking her semesters-long 
streak of abstention.The 20-year-old said she wished the word-
ing for the proposed amendments had been less confusing.
“I just voted for what I understood,” she 
said.
While students went to the polls, Impact 
and Progress Party were on campus encour-aging others to vote. 
Impact Party spokesperson Janae Moodie 
wrote in an email that Impact had a great ﬁ  rst 
day of elections.
“Our candidates enjoyed meeting students 
all over campus and are excited to meet even 
more tomorrow,” she said.
Pablo Delvalle, 21, said he decided to vote because he knows Chase Werther, an inde-pendent senate candidate running for a seat in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. He also wanted to support online voting, but skipped over the other questions.
“I looked at them, but most of them I ab-
stained because I didn’t want to read them,” the UF nuclear engineering senior said. “Too much jargon.”
Students can vote today from 8:30 a.m. un-
til 8:30 p.m. After polls close, results will be announced at 9:30 p.m. on the North Lawn.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  On ﬁ  rst day of SG elections, 2,000  fewer votes than Spring 2016
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
WHEN THE POLLS ARE OPEN WHERE YOU CAN VOTE
WHAT WILL BE ON THE BALLOT8:30 a.m. - 8:30 p.m.     Broward Hall  library 
    Health Science Center  C2-041C 
    Heavener , Room 202 
    Jennings  ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor library 
    Levin College of Law (Bruton-Geer Hall) - 
           side hallways by the cafeteria 
    Marston Science Library , main Room 
    Murphree Area Commons
           Conference Room 106 
    Norman Hall  Education Library 
    Reitz Union  computer lab 
    Southwest Recreation Center  -
           cafe near entrance on left side 
    Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce, Room C202    Student Body president
    Student Body vice president
    Student Body treasurer
    50 Student Senate seats based on college or academic year
    11 Amendments to the UF Student Government constitution
    2 referendums A total of 4,482 students voted  4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
HE’S THE ONL Y KNOWN 
PERSON TO HAVE 
ESCAPED AL-QAIDA.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When Matthew Schrier planned 
his escape from an al-Qaida prison, 
he thought of “Jurassic Park.”
In the movie, the velociraptors 
tested an electric fence for weak-
nesses. So Schrier, credited as the 
only westerner to escape the terror-ist group, meticulously studied the wires covering his cell’s window, un-til he was able to break free, he said.
On Tuesday, Schrier, a Jewish-
American and photographer, relayed his experiences of escaping from his seven-month imprisonment in July 
2013 to about 70 people in side UF’s 
Pugh Hall. 
“I had a lot of plans, but the first didn’t work,” the 38-year-old said. 
“The second didn’t either. It’s trial 
and error.”
Schrier said he was kidnapped 
by jihadists on Dec. 31, 2012, while leaving Syria, a country torn by a civil war, where he had been taking photographs.
Instead of panicking after being 
captured, Schrier said he befriended 
his captors, cracking jokes and try-
ing to get on their good side. He converted to Islam with the help of other Muslim prisoners to avoid be-ing killed.
To maintain his sanity, he said 
he re-watched movies in his head, worked out and tried to keep track of the days. He tried to escape several 
times and faced beatings because of 
it.
Once, his captors forced him face 
down on the floor, immobilized his legs, and “licked” his feet 115 times with a cable. He limped for days.Schrier said he planned to escape 
with his cellmate, another American named Theo Curtis, even though Curtis had threatened to rat him out. 
“He was the biggest sissy,” Schri-
er said. “He didn’t have common sense.”
Curtis wasn’t strong enough to lift 
himself up through the window, so Schrier left.
He said he didn’t want to be 
known as the American who left the other American behind, but he also 
didn’t want to be known as someone 
who died foolishly. Curtis was later released by al-Qaida, he said.  
Javier Nuñez, a UF statistics ju-
nior, said he thought Schrier’s story was powerful.
“I would’ve been disheartened,” 
the 20-year-old said. “He seemed to have been very level-headed about 
it all, especially compared to his cell-
mate Theo.”Former photographer details 
captivity, escape from al-Qaida 
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Matthew Schrier, a photographer who was held captive for seven 
months by al-Qaida, shared his story with an audience of about 70 people in Pugh Hall on Tuesday night.
him close to a manhole cover, and 
he looks down and realizes he’s near one, he will jump,” he said.
Officer Ryan Foster, who has 
been with Merlin for about a year, said Merlin loves candy canes. It’s his favorite treat and he can hear the sound of a wrapper opening from across the pasture of the Alachua Conservation Trust in Micanopy.
But his calm demeanor has made 
him the perfect horse on the job, Foster said. 
Even so, their hard work has 
earned them their retirement. 
Zeus will live in Newberry with 
Cheryl Rhoden, who donated him to GPD, and Merlin will live with An-drew Hinson, a former member of the GPD’s MPU.
For now, Fundenburg and Foster 
will ride the other two MPU hors-es, 8-year-old Bolt and 11-year-old Rusty. 
Fundenburg began to tear up 
when she thought about saying goodbye to Zeus and his “larger than life” personality. 
“Just like you and me, if you get 
tired of dealing with your boss, tired of dealing with customers, tired of 
getting up early and going to work, 
and you’re tired of putting your uni-form on for work, you’re ready to retire,” she said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgHORSES,  from pg.1Both Zeus and Merlin 
are going into retirement
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Cpl. Tracy Fundenberg stands with Zeus, her partner of six and a half years. She spoke about working 
with the horse and said she would miss his “larger than life” personality.
ets will be available Thursday at noon and all 
tickets will be available Friday.
“These ticket prices are below quite a few 
of the artists that have performed here before including the 2007 performance by Lil Wayne 
where the ticket prices were $101, $56, $36,” 
she said.
Lil Wayne performed at the O’Connell 
Center in 2007 with rapper Fabolous, accord-ing to Alligator archives.
Tercilla, a 20-year-old UF English junior, 
learned about Lil Wayne’s upcoming show 
while at the Big Sean and Lil Yachty concert 
sponsored by SGP. 
She immediately wanted to go to see the 
artist she has listened to since middle school, but now she’s unsure if she’s willing to spend 
the money.
“I thought they were over-priced, not for 
the artist but for the venue,” she said.
Alex Ruiz, a 20-year-old UF sociology ju-
nior, said he still plans to attend the event de-
spite thinking tickets are slightly more expen-sive than other on-campus concerts. 
Ruiz plans to pay for floor seats for the 
concert, but he’ll do whatever it takes to get 
in the door. 
“I know it’ll be a great time,” Ruiz said.CONCERT,  from pg.1Lil Wayne performed at the 
O’Connell Center in 2007
was something at least half the country really 
didn’t buy into,” Wahid said. “There is a real 
tangible and concrete threat.”
He said the new order will be to inform 
the media that the president’s power won’t be questioned regarding national security. It will 
also be to establish that institutions cannot 
constrain Trump, he added.
Nunn, the associate director of UF Law’s 
center on children and families, said race and immigration are social constructs to determine 
people’s rights and their place in America. 
“Banning people on the basis of religion 
and national origin is not any different and 
should be protested with the same vigor as 
cases where black people who are unarmed 
are shot in the street,” Nunn said. Since the executive order, there has been 
more violence against Islamic mosques and 
Jewish synagogues, said Simmons, a UF reli-gion professor. 
Fear of Sharia law is often used to justify 
hatred by Islamophobic people and then used 
against Muslims to prevent them from obtain-
ing citizenship, she said. But the lawyers help-
ing people stuck in airports and the protestors across the nation give her hope.
“This is a long struggle; it’s not going to be 
turned around overnight, so we have to gear 
up for a long fight,” she said.
Logan Loadholtz, a 19-year-old UF envi-
ronmental science sophomore, said after the 
event she wants to do more research about 
the topics.
“I think it’s a really important topic that 
definitely should be addressed more and that 
I didn’t know much about,” she said.PANEL,  from pg.1They spoke about Trump 
proposing another order
“I thought they were over-priced, not 
for the artist but for the venue.”
Melanie T ercilla
UF student“OLD JOE” HAS STOOD IN 
DOWNTOWN SINCE 1904.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
“Old Joe,” a statue of a Confed-
erate soldier, isn’t standing on solid 
ground.
On Tuesday, Alachua County 
commissioners postponed their deci-
sion on whether the statue will re-
main where it stands or move from its spot on the corner of East Univer-sity Avenue and North Main Street.
The location of “Old Joe” has 
been discussed since July 2015, ac-cording to Alligator archives. Activ-ists argue that the statue is a remind-er of a racist southern culture and 
doesn’t belong downtown. 
Its defenders argue history 
shouldn’t be erased.
On Tuesday, commissioners de-
bated in front of an audience of 30 
whether “Old Joe” should be moved or if its plaque — placed with the statue in 1904 — should be replaced.
The plaque currently reads, “They 
counted the cost and in defence of right they paid the martyr’s price.” 
County Commissioner Robert 
“Hutch” Hutchinson said the plaque, not “Old Joe,” is offensive. 
“It’s not about the statue,” he 
said. “It’s about the inscriptions on the statue.”
Hutchinson said he hopes pri-
vate funds can be raised to move the statue to Veterans Memorial Park and add a plaque that explains the 
statue’s historical meaning.
At the meeting, Gainesville resi-
dent Bob Barnas held up a photo of 
a veterans memorial in Washington, D.C., and said veterans memorials should be respected and not moved.
“Don’t change history,” the Viet-
nam Marine veteran said. “You’re messing with the wrong thing.”
Hutchinson said he will wait 
through the meetings and debates until the commission comes to the right decision.
“I can be very patient,” he said. 
“It’s been sitting there since 1904. There’s obliviously no rush.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Alligator File Photo
A photo of the Confederate soldier statue “Old Joe” on the corner of East University Avenue 
and North Main Street taken on Oct. 6, 2016.
Commissioners debate relocating Confederate statue The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
February relationship series: all good things must end
It’s time for my series to reach its conclusion. 
Valentine’s Day is over, and February is com-ing to a close. All good things must come to 
an end; so let’s talk about endings.
When we are deep in love, the last thing 
we think about is love fading. If we have a fight, 
friends are quick to tell us we will pull through. 
We have been taught that love is stronger than 
any obstacle, but sometimes it isn’t. What can we do when “happily ever after” doesn’t work out as advertised?
A friend once told me, “Something can still have value, 
even if it doesn’t last forever.” These words are difficult to hear from someone who just doesn’t feel the same way any-more, but they encompass one of the most important lessons you can ever take to heart.
Before MP3s, if you went to hear a symphony, it was like-
ly the only time you would ever hear the “1812 Overture” or Beethoven’s ninth symphony. This did not devalue music in its time. If anything it led audiences to treasure their experi-ence even more. No one has ever cast aside Broadway tickets 
simply because of the fleeting nature of theater.
The value of the ephemeral is something we intuitively 
understand about art, but love we still describe in jewelry 
store slogan terms: “eternal,” “everlasting” and “timeless.”
Each of us changes immeasurably over the course of our 
lives. Philosophers like Derek Parfit contend, given enough time, we cease to even be the same person. We understand that our tastes change. So does the way we love and the things and people we feel love for. It should be no surprise 
that some of us will grow out of some relationships just as 
we grow into others.
The strongest relationships are not those in which we 
cling to things we once knew, but those where we are willing 
to grow and change for as long as we are together. We can-
not always know how life will change us, but we appreciate the moments for what they add to our lives.Part of a healthy relationship is knowing when 
the love songs are wrong. Lines like “I would die for you” play to ideals of all-consuming passionate 
love, but they are not guides to healthy romance. 
When people are bound together by need, that is called dependence. It is captivity, and to think of your relationship that way is to ignore the cir-
cumstances of your own life. You survived before 
you met your beloved, and you have likely lived through a handful of breakups. You have it in you to thrive on your own.
If you choose to stay, let it be because you are happier in 
the company of your companion. Movies play up the “you complete me” narrative, but we should strive to be complete on our own. There is no higher compliment than the com-pany of someone who stays alone by choice. If your life is no 
longer more fulfilling for the presence of a lover, what good 
do you do to either party by staying together?
Unfortunately, we tend to be uncomfortable with un-
certainty. We give promise rings and marriage contracts in pursuit of a guarantee, in hopes of preserving something as 
fleeting as human emotion. We hold our partners back from 
growing or changing, we try to hold onto the things we fell in love with.
Love depends on trust. We must trust that our partners 
want to be with us. We must trust ourselves to recognize when what we feel is real. We must trust we can know when we are no longer better together than we were apart. We must trust ourselves to move on, to find love again, and to cherish a memory, even when we no longer have the origi-
nal, to understand that it was beautiful nonetheless.
This column is the last in a series of four.
David Billig is a UF linguistics masters student. His col-
umn appears on Wednesdays.We need to bridge 
the divides between 
generations
In addition to the divides of political affiliation, race, socio-
economic status, gender, sexuality and religion that are rampant across our nation, there is also a generational divide. Baby boomers and millennials especially seem to have it out for each other. Baby boomers call millennials 
entitled, lazy and selfish. Millennials call baby boomers out-of-touch, hypocritical and unconcerned with the world beyond themselves. (Somewhere, Generation X — saddled between the two — poke their heads out, wondering when people are going to start talking about them.) There are hosts of facts to support arguments for and against millennials and baby boomers, depending on where you’re getting your sources. It’s clear, however, that this divide is vicious.
Naturally, as college students and millennials, we’re going 
to defend our generation — right?
Well, maybe not entirely. The term millennial covers those 
born between the years 1981 and 1997, though some argue that it goes as late as 2000 and others that it cuts off at 1993 instead. As of next year, using this first time frame, only half of the undergraduate class at UF will be millennials. By stricter standards, very few of us are even millennials at all. If you’re a freshman hearing this for the first time, you’re probably going to argue that you fit in more with your sophomore peers than 
your 10-year-old brother.
See how blurry these lines are? And yet we let them divide 
us.
As with most divides that split our country, in order to 
move forward, we need to bridge it, at least somewhat. For 
starters, baby boomers should recognize that the world is, in fact, a very different place than it was when they were in their 20s and 30s. You can no longer work minimum wage and pay for college tuition. You cannot buy a house fresh out of col-
lege. What once took just grit and gumption now takes years 
and years of debt and student loans — and that’s not even in-cluding children and a family in the picture. To quote a song of their generation, “the times they are a changin’.” They always have and always will. Once, baby boomers rallied under that statement. Now, they fight it. 
As millennials, we also need to recognize that sometimes 
we’re going to have to listen to authority, work 9-to-5 jobs that require business-casual attire and, contrary to what social 
media might have us believe, other people don’t always care 
about what we have to say. We won’t say that our generation is entitled or lazy — just look at the course load some of us take, while holding down jobs and internships — but we are idealistic. That can be a good thing. It can also be our down-fall. We want the world to be a good place. It is not. When we come into contact with injustice, be it the fact that we can’t wear jeans to work or limited access to women’s health care across the country, we need to learn when to let go and when 
to fight. The former, we should let go. The latter, we can fight. 
I don’t address Gen X or the as-yet-unnamed generation af-
ter millennials — sometimes referred to as Generation Z. What 
we at the Alligator are trying to say is that we shouldn’t be at odds with each other just because of the year we were born. We need to accept that the world is changing. We need to keep the past in mind as we move toward the future. And we need to do it together — baby boomers, Gen Xs, millennials and Generation Zs alike. 
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORDavid Billig
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Last Friday I drove to Tallahassee to 
play a show. I hadn’t spent much time there before, so I wasn’t sure what to expect. I had heard Tallahassee was “nasty” from many of my peers at UF, 
but I never quite understood why.
I got to Tallahassee at about 7 p.m. Upon 
exiting the highway and driving through the streets surrounding the Florida State University campus, I was disappointed to see strip malls and trafﬁ  c congestion. Still, none of this struck me as the nasty squalors about which I had heard frequently. 
I found the venue, a quaint house sur-
rounded by other quaint houses, presum-ably rented by students. It looked a lot like my own neighborhood in Gainesville. The people who ran the show were accommo-dating and friendly. Their house was clean-er than my own. I still hadn’t seen anything outlandishly nasty in this mysterious town, and I was getting antsy.
At about 11 p.m. that changed — seem-
ingly. The touring performer who was sched-uled to go on before me entered the room, bringing in a sort of cheesy body odor. I eyed his equipment, which included a Backstreet-Boys-style-hands-free microphone, an incomplete drum set and four pink suitcases with illegible grafﬁ  ti on them.
His performance consisted 
of beat-boxing, making up free-verse poetry and hitting parts of his partial drum set and open-ing the pink suitcases to reveal pounds of cardboard, doodled on with sharpies and riddled with ambiguous phrases like “free your mind” and “whatever.” His ragged outﬁ  t consist-ed of several layers of colorful garments. I wanted his set to be my "Aha, Tallahassee is nasty” moment, but I learned later this performer was from Vermont.
After the show, I stopped at a late-night 
fried chicken restaurant. Once I got my food, I parked and ate on the hood of my car. 
It was about 2 a.m. when I ﬁ  nished 
eating. I felt disappointed by Tallahassee. It just didn’t seem any nastier to me than Gainesville. I recognized someone from the show, strolling down the side-walk with a pack of Rolling Rock and an open can. We got into a short conversation about the per-formance.
We had been talking for a few 
minutes when I noticed a large shadowy ﬁ  gure approaching us, shouting words I couldn’t under-stand. My new friend and Tal-lahassee native, "Tyler," for the sake of anonymity, didn’t seem 
alarmed when this 6-foot-something man addressed us directly, speaking gibberish that resembled English, but was nearly im-possible to understand. This bumbling man gave me a big hug. Then he looked at Tyler and, in an uncharacteristic moment of lin-guistic clarity, said, “I know you.”
The tall man then produced a steak 
knife from his jacket pocket, and started waving it around carelessly. He wasn’t di-rectly threatening either one of us, but I got spooked. Nobody had ever pulled a knife on me before.
“I know you, man!” said the tall man wielding the knife again. 
I bolted toward my car and Tyler fol-
lowed. He got into in my backseat without me really noticing. Then he asked me for a ride home, so I locked the door and drove off.
“I really appreciate your helping me out, 
man,” Tyler said from the backseat. “I’m not going to lie to you, I used to do a lot of crack right around that area. I don’t know who I might have wronged in some of my benders. That guy deﬁ  nitely knew me, and he wasn’t happy to see me.”
I entered Tyler’s house brieﬂ  y, to urinate 
and ﬁ  ll my Nalgene water bottle. In his liv-ing room, I saw the smelly Vermont guy doodling a mural on the wall with a sharpie. There were several dirty mattresses lining the ﬂ  oor of the main room. After I used his moldy toilet, Tyler showed me the bullet holes in his door from the last time there was a drug-related raid of his house. 
Tallahassee, as it turned out, did not dis-
appoint. 
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Despite an initial impression, Tallahassee proved to be a nasty placeColumn
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
Alligator File Photo
From left: Patrons T ammy Bernard and Jenny Lee eat 
a meal outside Mi Apá Latin Café on 34th Street on Nov. 27, 2012.
THERE WILL BE AN EVENT 
EVERY DAY THIS WEEK.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
“There was no such thing as 
mental health when you were 
picking cotton in a field,” said Ian 
Green, 21, as he reflected on how 
the black community views men-tal health. 
Inside the Reitz Union on 
Tuesday, Green and five other panelists discussed their experi-ences with how minority com-munities view mental health to a group of about 15 people. 
The discussion, moderated by 
Counseling & Wellness Center psychologist Analesa Clarke, was held on the first day of Student 
Government’s annual Mental 
Health Awareness Week.
Clarke said an individual’s cul-
ture may influence how he or she views mental health.  
“I think it’s really important 
that we discuss these issues,” she said. “No one is immune.”
Green, 21, said he didn’t learn 
about mental health until college. Older generations look back to the hardships of slavery and civil 
rights to rationalize that mental 
health isn’t a concern for younger people, the UF business admin-istration and economics junior 
said. 
John Kim, 20, said the South 
Korean community is similar in 
that mental health issues, espe-cially among men, isn’t discussed.  
“People don’t talk about it too 
much because they don’t want to be a burden to others,” the UF mi-crobiology and cell science junior said. 
Jarrett Repasky, a 19-year-old 
UF wildlife ecology and conser-vation freshman, said he valued learning about diverse students’ 
experiences. He said he knew 
about the event through one of his friends who was a panelist. 
“One thing I was surprised 
about was that the turnout wasn’t 
as big,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgPanel talks mental health stigma among minorities
THEY WERE INDUCTED IN 
BOSTON ON SATURDAY.
By Isa Perez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Five UF faculty members have 
joined UF President Kent Fuchs as 
fellows of an international science association.The researchers, John Ewel, 
Hugh Fan, Alice Harmon, Robert Holt and Laura Ranum, were in-ducted as fellows in the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Boston on Saturday. They were nominated in November, along with 386 others, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an email. 
The association is a nonprofit 
dedicated to recognizing the ad-vancement of science and technol-ogy, according to its website. Fuchs, who has been a fellow since 2010, was in Boston supporting the UF in-ductees, Orlando said.
Hugh Fan, who has worked at 
UF for 14 years, became a fellow for studying microfluidics, or analyzing fluids in extremely small amounts, which will be used in technology and medicine. “It’s incredible the amount of 
distinguished people you can come across at these kinds of events,” he said. “I’ve encountered a three-star general, an ambassador to the Unit-ed States and the science minister of a country while being in Boston.”
Robert Dan Holt, a researcher 
with the UF ecology department, was recognized for studying the complexities of ecology and evolu-tion. 
Holt said his fortune of working 
with renowned scientists and having others discover his papers advanced his career to earn him the fellowship.
“I’ve collaborated with some 
great faculty and students over my career,” he said. “What one does is rarely an expression solely of one’s own talents.”
Five UF faculty members join Fuchs in science association
THE SPECIAL WILL CONTINUE 
UNTIL THE END OF THE 
SEASON.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Raise a cup of Cuban coffee to UF 
men’s basketball today.
The Gators’ Tuesday night win 
against the University of South Caro-
lina Gamecocks — its ninth in a row — marked its 23rd win of the season and another round of free coffee for patrons 
of Mi Apá Latin Café, a local restaurant 
that offers a free cup of coffee after each Gators basketball win.
Peter Ynigo, owner of Mi Apá, said 
the promotion began in December and was supposed to end Feb. 5.
Because of the continued success of 
the team, Ynigo said the promotion will 
last until the end of the season. All you 
have to do is “check in” on Facebook.
“I just want people to know how 
good the Gators are playing,” Ynigo said. “They’ve been playing their hearts out.”
Hundreds of cups of Cuban coffee 
have been given out so far, he said. The men’s basketball team has three more games in its regular season, which means three more chances for free Cu-ban coffee. 
The basketball-coffee crossover is the 
second time the restaurant has offered free coffee, but Ynigo said they plan on doing it more frequently.
“It’s a win-win. The Gators are win-
ning, and we’re giving our customers 
something nice,” Ynigo said. “I even 
think new people are trying us out.”
Gainesville resident Estee Zosman 
said she doesn’t care much for the sport, 
but Mi Apá’s cortadito espressos are her 
favorite.
“I wish I cared more about basketball, 
but I definitely like the free coffee that 
comes with it,” she said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgAs Gators basketball keeps winning, 
Mi Apá pouring up free Cuban coffeePaige Fry / Alligator Staff
From Left: Analesa Clarke, Ronit Dastidar, Nyasha Joseph, John Kim, Ian Green, Robert Lemus and 
Alex Chaves discuss mental health during a panel on Tuesday. The event was hosted on the  first day of Student Government’s annual Mental Health Awareness Week.
“It’s a win-win. The Gators are 
winning, and we’re giving our 
customers something nice.”
Peter Ynigo
Mi Ap á Latin Ca fé owner LOCALUPCOMING EVENTS DURING MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS WEEK
• T oday: T aking the First Step resource event on the North Lawn from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
• Thursday: Stress Free with SG meditation event with free Starbucks coffee and iced tea on 
Turlington Plaza from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
• Thursday: Rise Above event with free dessert in the Reitz Union Amphitheatre from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
• Friday: Continuing the Fight event with free stress-reducing kits on Turlington Plaza from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.“People don’t talk about it too 
much because they don’t want to 
be a burden to others.”
John Kim
UF studentSHE WAS NAMED A MEMBER OF 
THE PANEL IN NOVEMBER.
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF nursing professor has been ex-
ploring women’s health on a national level 
since January.
Versie Johnson-Mal-
lard, the College of Nurs-ing family, community and health systems sci-
ence department chair, 
is currently serving as a co-chair for the American Academy of Nursing’s Women’s Health Expert 
Panel. The panel explores new research in women’s health, like reproductive issues, according to the organization’s website.
Johnson-Mallard, who is also an associ-
ate professor in the college, was notified she got the position in November after be-ing nominated. She was named co-chair for the panel, one of the highest awards some-one in nursing can receive, she said. 
“It’s an honor,” she said. “It’s a privi-
lege to work on the behalf of the women of our nation.”
To earn a position on the panel, indi-
viduals must be nominated by the current chair, she said. Then, the rest of the panel votes to confirm the position. 
Johnson-Mallard will serve alongside 
Diana Taylor, lead co-chair of the panel, and about 30 other members who will work on the mission of the American 
Academy of Nursing, which is to transform 
health policy and practice through nursing knowledge, she said. 
Johnson-Mallard has been a mentor to 
Cassandre Jean-Antoine, a UF nursing doc-
toral student, since Jean-Antoine came to 
the program two years ago.
“I know that women’s health is one 
of her passions,” Jean-Antoine said. “As 
a professor and as a mentor and as a re-
searcher, she still finds time for the cause of women’s health.”
She said Johnson-Mallard is knowledge-
able and a good resource. Johnson-Mallard 
taught her how to network in the field of 
nursing. She added that she feels fortunate to have her as an adviser. 
“She has the knowledge; she has the 
experience,” Jean-Antoine said. “She has the skill set in order to contribute to this panel.”  
This will be the first leadership role she 
will hold in any organization, Johnson-
Mallard said.
“Nursing is at the forefront to the care 
of our nation,” she said. “We’ve been rec-
ognized year after year as the most trusted 
profession.”WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
WILL YOU MARROW ME?
Felicity Inthalangsy, a 19-year-old UF microbiology and cell science 
sophomore, helps Conor MacDonnell, a 25-year-old UF marine sciences doctoral student, swab his cheek. MacDonnell then put his cotton swabs inside an envelope in order to join the Gift of Life Marrow Registry, for those who may need a bone marrow transplant match.
Johnson-Mallard
UF nursing professor serving 
on national nursing panel 
THE LIST WAS RELEASED  
IN FEBRUARY. 
By Carolina Garcia Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A renowned website recognized UF for 
fostering a positive environment for military 
families.
The website, Military Friendly, released 
its 2017 Military Spouse Friendly School list in February. Included in the list was UF, rec-ognized for creating and promoting positive environments for the families of military per-sonnel, wrote Anthony DeSantis, the associ-ate dean of student affairs, in an email. 
“Military Friendly-designated organiza-
tions are in good federal standing and have met or exceeded benchmarks for recruit-ment, retention, advancement, support and job placement of veterans,” DeSantis said. 
The website collected information about 
the schools through public data and surveys, he said. Selection was based on features like veterans’ access to career and mentorship programs and how well universities accom-modated veterans’ and their families’ needs.  
Veteran Joe Schwartz, a UF finance stu-
dent, said UF ensures that benefits veterans have access to, such as the federal GI bill and the Collegiate Veterans Success Center in Yon Hall, are available to their dependents and spouses. “UF is accommodating in that they treat 
people who are dependents almost like they 
treat vets,” the 21-year-old said. “They take 
steps to make sure that dependents who 
grew up around  military personnel stay con-
nected.” 
Veteran David Redman, a UF family, 
youth and community sciences senior, said 
the federal government has improved how military members and their dependents are supported. He said UF has been ready to ac-cept those changes and build on them, while working to make sure veterans are welcomed and included on campus. 
“It kind of breaks down the stigma by fa-
cilitating interaction between vets and non-vets,” the 33-year-old said. UF named Military Spouse 
Friendly university
INFORMATION ABOUT UF’S 
COLLEGIATE VETERANS 
SUCCESS CENTER
• Located in Yon Hall on the east side 
of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
• Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday 
• Provides study space and access for resources for UF’s veterans 
• Hosts events like fundraisers and 
socials for UF’s veterans
 IT COSTS BETWEEN $5 AND $60 PER 
GAME, DEPENDING ON PLAYING TIME. 
By Kianna Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer  
With the help of a headset and headphones, stu-
dents dive into a 3-D world and become space pirates 
on the ground level of the Reitz Union. 
Inside the Vscape virtual-reality arcade, located 
across from Wells Fargo, students can choose from 
50 games that transport them to virtual worlds.
Brandon Farling, a UF philosophy senior, founded 
the company in January. It’s located inside the Retail 
Gator Hatchery, a space designated for student entre-preneurs to sell products.
The arcade is open Monday to Friday from noon 
to 6 p.m. To play games, students can pay anywhere between $5 and $60, depending on how long they want to play. Farling said his arcade will be available 
for free for students during remaining Spring Gator-
Nights events.
Farling, 23, built his own PC to support the HTC 
Vive, a virtual-reality headset system, for his com-pany, he said. He purchases the games from an en-tertainment platform, Steam. One of the games he offers allows students to gear up a bow and shoot arrows, while another allows players to paint 3-D art.
“I’ve always loved computers, and virtual reality 
is just the next step in computer evolution,” Farling said.
Farling wanted to start the company after trying 
a friend’s virtual reality system. He said being im-mersed in a virtual world was unlike anything he’d ever experienced. 
“It’s really going to be the future, like computers 
were the future in the ‘80s,” Farling said. “The appli-cations for virtual reality are limitless, and we have 
only just begun to scratch the surface.”He plans to work with Benjamin Lok, a UF com-
puter and information science and engineering pro-
fessor, to develop Lok’s program Virtual Reality for Social Good, which will bring students together to develop virtual-reality projects to assist in exposure therapy for people overcoming phobias, he said. The program should start by Fall 2018. 
Farling hopes Vscape will become a leader in 
hardware and software developments, he said. His goal is to provide affordable access to this cutting-edge technology.
Farling has entered his company into the UF Big 
Idea Gator Business Plan Competition, where stu-dents will present their business plans to a panel of judges. He plans to walk away with the grand prize of $25,000 in April.   
“Whether I win or lose the competition, I will be 
pursuing this idea with everything I have,” Farling said. “I quit my job to pursue this business.”
Nic Morton, a 20-year-old UF Japanese junior, put 
on the virtual-reality headset to play a space-themed shooting game called, “Space Pirate Trainer” on Monday. Lost in the virtual world, Morton dodged spaceships and bullets surrounding him using a con-troller. 
“Playing a video game, even with a very simple 
concept, in a virtual-reality medium was really excit-ing,” Morton said.UF student’s virtual-reality arcade 
at Reitz to offer exposure therapy
AT A GLANCE: GAMES OFFERED AT VSCAPE
• Longbow 
• Tilt Brush 
• Space Pirate Trainer 
• Audioshield 
• Universe Sandbox 2
• Don’t Blink WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-15-17-40-2
Volunteers of America is offering
FREE, ALL-INCLUSIVE 
HOUSING FOR
HOMELESS VETERANS
in a friendly, supportive atmosphere.
Please call Woody at 352-642-8313
for immediate move-in!
2-22-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
2008 HYUNDAI ACCENT
Good condition, 1 owner, no accidents,
extended warranty included.
$1500 cash / OBO. Call 409-988-1505     
3-14-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-22-17-35-14TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Assessment Writers/Editors
Progress Testing, an elite company focused on K-12 formative assessment, is seeking subject matter editors in the areas of K-12 Science, ELA, and Math to work in our Gainesville offices. Multiple positions are available for smart and talented education writers in several academic areas. To apply, visit Gator CareerLink or ProgressTesting.com.     2-27-17-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$9.75 - $10.25 per hour
+ Bi-monthly Incentive + Paid Training
Find us on Gator Jobs! Search:
Telephone Interviewer http://jobs.ufl.edu
3-15-17-14-14
Sun Country Sports Center currently has openings for swim instructors who love work-ing with children. Must be friendly, enthusias -
tic, reliable, and self-motivated. Possibility of add'l hours in other depts.Apply at suncountrysports.com/jobs     2-24-17-5-14
HPM at UF Health/Shands Hospital is seek-ing valet attendants. Must be able to drive a manual/stick shift, have a valid driver's license, and clean driving history (≤ 6pts in 3 yrs). Call (352) 594-6231 or E-Mail SWilliams@717parking.com     2-27-17-5-14
part time computer programmerwork your hours knowledge of phpjava helpful resume w/experiencetraining, and salary expectedemail coproassoc@bellsouth.net     2-28-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. ANATOMY: Where would Hav-
ersian canals be located in the human 
body?
2. MOVIES: Which star of early 
“Tarzan” movies was a gold-medal winner in the 1924 and 1928 Olym-
pics?
3. GEOGRAPHY: In what body of 
water do the Comoros islands lie?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What cooking 
term is Italian for “to the tooth”?
5. MUSIC: Which of Beethoven’s 
symphonies also is known as the “Pas-
toral Symphony”?
6. COMICS: What profession did 
Blondie take up in the comic strip in the 1990s?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Where would someone be located 
in the United States in an area often described locally as “down east”?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve nonconsecu-tive terms?
9. LITERATURE: What is the liter -
ary genre described by Jonathan Swift as “a glass wherein beholders discover 
everybody’s face but their own”?
10. GEOMETRY: How many sides 
does a rhombus have?
Answers
1. The bones
2. Johnny Weissmuller won five gold 
medals in freestyle swimming con-tests.
3. Indian Ocean4. Al dente5. Symphony No. 66. Catering business
7. Eastern New England
8. Grover Cleveland served as presi-
dent in 1885 and 1893
9. Satire
10. Four
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 20, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
● COMPLETE CANVAS & VINYL ●★ Custom Boat Covers ★ Bimini Covers★ RV & Camper Upholstery ★ Canvas & 
Vinyl repairs 352-284-8661 Becky Thompson, Thompson.Rebecca05.RT@gmail.com    3-13-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Retired machinist, movie prop maker, artifi-
cer seeks artist / sculpter to share studio in Cross Creek. No cost. I would like company & to help each other with art. Contact Swamp Wizard 352-466-0115, cromt@bellsouth.net    2-27-17-5-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.BECOME A YOGA TEACHER
Certified with Florida Yoga Academy
and Registered with Yoga Alliance
Classes Start June 10th in Micanopy, FL
See website for details
www.floridayogaacademy.com
3-3-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Spot for an
AirPod
4 Chowder morsel
8 Moscow currency
13 Slept like __
15 Color in a
Spanish rainbow
16 Religion of Basra
17 Corn Belt tower18 Latin I verb19 Riyadh resident20 *Fictional road
material
23 Bookshelf
bracket shape
24 Of a battery
terminal
25 Necessity for a
game of Ultimate
27 History class
assignment
30 Elec. or water31 __ a clue
34 Slangy pounds
36 Financial help39 End __40 Tomato product41 Preference
indicator
42 Religious prefix43 Grub44 Brought about45 Tenerife, por
ejemplo
47 Take the helm
49 Surface layers
52 Clogs from France56 Neurologist’s
order, briefly
57 *Cola flavor60 Pop-up foul-up62 Stereotypical
family spoiler
63 Pulitzer-winning
novelist Jennifer
64 Renaissance
painter __ dellaFrancesca
65 Minute quantity66 Fish __67 Family car68 __-Coburg:
former Bavarian
duchy
69 Homer’s neighbor
DOWN
1 Class requiring
little effort
2 Distant and then
some
3 Pal of Nancy, in
comics4 Barely advances
5 Big name in
vision care
6 Slightly open7 Recurring theme8 Go out on a limb9 Stars and Stripes
land: Abbr.
10 *One with noble
lineage
11 Crock-Pot server
12 French novelist
Zola
14 *Floral papal
ornament
21 Brewery kiln
22 Input for a
refinery
26 *Chard, by
another name
28 Marine shade29 Portable
Mongoliandwellings
31 Simple dwelling
32 Shade of gray
33 Angrily ignoring
the first half of
the answers to
starred clues?
35 Luck, pluck or
duck ending
37 Part of D.A.:
Abbr.38 Prefix with con
40 Shade of gray
44 Jacob’s wife
before Rachel
46 James with three
NBA titles
48 Tunnel out,
maybe
49 Many future
presidents, as it
turned out
50 Like “Stranger
Things,” e.g.51 Metaphorical
moments of time
53 Skin, but not
bones
54 Kind of evidence55 Ecclesiastical
council
58 Word of amore59 Fort with billions
in bullion
61 “... man __
mouse?”
By Jascha Smilack©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/22/1702/22/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 22, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 19 Connections 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Sophia Reynoso is leading the 
softball team both on offense and defense. Read the  story, pg. 16Former Florida player returns to football program
Ian Scott, who played along the defensive line for the Gators from 2000-
2002, is returning to Florida as a graduate assistant, the team announced 
Tuesday. Scott played seven years in the NFL. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Nearly midway through the second half and 
with Florida holding onto a thinning lead, the 
ball started with Canyon Barry in the left corner.
After brief stops with several other players, 
the ball zipped from one side of the court to the other, finally ending up in the hands of Devin Robinson, who launched a three-pointer from the right corner as the Gamecocks’ defenders struggled to close out.
He buried it, halting South Carolina’s 5-0 
run.
Robinson, who struggled with his shooting 
the last few games, finally regained his touch. 
The junior nailed a trio of three-pointers 
— all in the second half — and had 14 points 
and six rebounds in No. 13 Florida’s 81-66 win 
against the Gamecocks (20-8, 10-5 SEC) on Tuesday night in the O’Connell Center. It was UF’s first win against South Carolina since the 
2014-15 season.
“I was gonna knock down a shot eventu-
ally,” Robinson said. “I was excited to actually 
see the ball go through the hoop this time.”
KeVaughn Allen led all scorers with 26 
points on 5-for-7 shooting from the field and 
seven rebounds while going 13-for-14 from the 
free-throw line. 
Allen made his presence felt the moment the 
ball touched his hands. The sophomore guard scored nine of the Gators’ first 17 points, includ-Florida offense bounces back as Gators manhandle 'Cocks
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Everything was lined up. 
Michael Byrne pitched his head 
off and was in line for the win — in his first career start nonetheless. 
Kevin O’Sullivan could smell his 
400th career win, just two outs away from the milestone.
But Sam Armstrong had other 
plans. Jacksonville’s third baseman 
smacked a game-tying, two-run double off the left field wall in the bottom of the ninth off freshman re-liever Andrew Baker. 
Three batters later, Baker served 
up a walk-off single to Scott Dubrule 
as the Dolphins (3-1) completed the 
three-run comeback and dished the Gators (3-1) their first loss of the sea-son Tuesday night in Jacksonville. 
The loss is also Florida’s first in a midweek contest since April 14, 2015. UF was a perfect 14-0 in said games last season. 
O’Sullivan said he knew his 
young bullpen could look shaky ear-ly this season like it did versus JU.
“I know this is a road game for 
him and he’s only a freshman,” O’Sullivan said, “but these are the types of experiences he’s gonna need to get.”
Not all was Baker’s fault, how-ever. 
Frank Rubio, in for Nick Horvath, 
yielded two singles to lead off the ninth. Then, after a strikeout, the left-handed Baker was called on to shut the door. 
He didn’t. 
After the Armstrong double, he 
walked two and allowed the fateful 
single that sealed the game. 
While the bullpen’s night wasn’t 
an encouraging sign, Michael By-rne’s was.
In his first career start, the sopho-
more couldn’t have asked for a much better outing to solidify his midweek starter role. 
Dolphins hitters looked off-
balance and uncomfortable at the 
plate facing Byrne’s three-pitch mix. 
That was evident in the bottom of the second. 
Bullpen melts down in baseball team's loss to Jacksonville
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The Gators will be without their sole 
senior for the rest of the season.
All-American Claire Boyce announced 
on Tuesday that her gymnastics career has 
come to a close because of lingering pain from a hip dysplasia surgery that sidelined her during her junior year, just two meets shy of Senior Day.“Throughout this comeback, it’s been 
really hard,” Boyce said. “And in the end, I just couldn’t make it happen. I was in too much pain and it was affecting me too much.”
Boyce, who has been a part of four floor 
lineups this season, notched her season-best score of 9.875 against Georgia on Feb. 10.
During her collegiate career, the Joshua, 
Texas, native racked up a slew of honors on beam and floor. As a sophomore, she earned All-Ameri-
can honors during the 2014 NCAA Champi-onship as the leadoff on floor, helping the Gators nab the program’s third straight na-tional title.
That year, she also earned 2015 All-SEC 
honors on beam and won seven event titles (six beam, one bars).
She holds collegiate-bests of 9.95 (beam), 
9.90 (floor) and 9.875 (bars). 
“It’s a decision that nobody ever wants to hear,” Florida coach Jenny Rowland said. “But at the end, I think it’s a good decision for her. It’s a decision we respect complete-ly and know that her health is most impor-tant.”
Boyce has been fighting through the pain 
in order to help her team succeed this sea-son, which hasn’t been easy on her or her body.
'I was in too much pain': Injury ends UF gymnast's careerCharles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF guard KeVaughn Allen holds the ball during Florida's 81-66 win against South Carolina on Tuesday in the O'Connell Center.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
ing a no-hesitation three-pointer from well beyond 
the arc to open the game.
UF coach Mike White said Allen’s start was a 
relief after the two teams’ last matchup. Florida went 0-for-17 from three-point range when it played South Carolina in January.
“I know I felt better,” White said, “so I’m sure 
the team did.”
With the SEC’s second-best scorer, USC's 
Sindarius Thornwell, plagued with foul trouble, Florida (23-5, 13-2 SEC) led by as many as 12  points during the opening frame. 
However, the Gamecocks went on a 12-0 run 
to tie the game, and a Justin McKie corner three-pointer a few possessions later gave South Caro-lina its first lead of the night at 33-30 late in the first half.
And despite four fouls, Thornwell kept the 
Gamecocks within striking distance as UF tried to pull away during the second period.
The senior guard scored 23 points on 6-for-12 
shooting. He also grabbed 10 rebounds and forced three steals.
White said South Carolina’s zone press defense was a difficult hurdle in the first half but said his team did a better job attacking once the second half started.
To the dismay of Gamecocks coach Frank 
Martin, the Gators overcame periods of sloppy play to shoot 49 percent from the field, including nine three-pointers, shredding one of the nation’s top-ranked defenses.
“Florida came out ready to go,” Martin said. 
“As an opponent, it’s fun to watch. It’s not fun to play against."                          
  @rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 13USC coach: Gators 'not fun to play against '
After surrendering back-to-back singles to open the 
frame, Byrne promptly struck out the next two batters 
before inducing a groundout. 
Byrne finished his night with seven scoreless in-
nings, scattering seven hits and a career-high eight 
strikeouts.
“The bottom line is Michael Byrne pitched out-
standing,” O’Sullivan said. “That’s the best he’s 
pitched since he’s been here.”
Florida — which manufactured both of its runs on 
early RBI groundouts — didn’t exactly give Byrne or the bullpen the biggest of leads. 
The Gators struggled against left-hander Casey 
Kulina, who fought neck-and-neck with Byrne on the 
mound. He allowed just one earned run through seven 
frames. 
UF hit .235 as a team against Jacksonville, and 
O’Sullivan knows his club’s bats will need to catch fire a little more. They’ll have an opportunity to quickly rebound and do so tonight against Jacksonville, this time in Gainesville. 
 “There’s certainly enough hitters, and we will get 
going,” O’Sullivan said. “We looked like we were a 
little late with our loads tonight.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this report. 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 13Byrne notched career-high 8 strikeouts vs. DolphinsThe surgery she underwent 
normally results in the end of an 
athlete’s career, and Boyce could have quit after last season.
But she didn’t.“Her surgery isn’t easy to get 
past,” Rowland said. “That in it-
self just goes to show the grit of 
this athlete, the dedication, the de-termination and what she is will-ing to do for her team.”
Throughout the season, Boyce’s 
younger teammates — especially the freshmen — have said that she is a role model for them and is al-ways there for them.
“She definitely took us all un-
der her wing,” freshman Rachel Gowey said. “Claire was very helpful to us and very nice coming in. … She kind of helped us kind 
of transition into this new life.”
While she may not be compet-
ing, she will still be honored on 
Senior Day against West Virginia on March 10, and will be there to 
help her team in any way that she 
can.
“My goal was to do everything 
I possibly could to get back to 
competing for this team,” Boyce 
said. “The best thing for me at this 
point is going to be to step away 
and serve as a different person for the team.”
@lstaff27 
lstaff@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 13Boyce will be 
honored on 
Senior Day
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Michael Byrne walks off the mound during Florida's 5-4 win against Wil-
liam & Mary on Friday. 
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
When the Gators return to Las 
Vegas in a few weeks, it won’t be a chance to gamble and hit the strip. 
A year after finishing second in 
the 2016 Southern Highlands Col-legiate, Florida will look to bounce back from a disappointing outing at the SunTrust Gator Invitational, 
which saw the Gators finish fourth 
after holding sole possession of 
third place through the first two rounds.
On Monday, coach J.C. Deacon 
reiterated how he feels about the 
performance over the weekend. 
“Finishing fourth wasn’t what 
we had in mind when the week 
started," he said. “But I’m not as 
much concerned with the result as 
how it happened.”
He went on to say it’s on all of 
the team, not just any individual. 
“When we get into adversity, 
we’ve got to react better and not press so hard and get ourselves 
deeper in a hole,” he said. “We’ve just got to trust our talent and relax a little bit and let the game come to us.”
Although many of the team’s 
players struggled to find a rhythm over the weekend, the Gators re-turn to a course they are very fa-miliar with. Deacon is a graduate of UNLV, the host of the Southern Highlands event. 
As a student-athlete, Deacon 
led UNLV to the Mountain West title in 2002 after finishing tied for second in individual play. Along with the playing connection, Dea-con also has an emotional connec-tion to Southern Highlands.
“Other than the (SunTrust) 
Gator, it’s the biggest tournament on my schedule every year," he said. "Southern Highlands is a phenomenal place. I’ve probably played there about a thousand times in my life. And it’s the place where my wife and I got married. So there’s a lot of special feelings when I go back there.”
Last year, Sam Horsfield took 
home the individual title, finishing 7 under for the tournament, four strokes ahead of second place. He was also able to shoot under par in every round that weekend, taking home his second title of the 2015-16 campaign.
Even with past success at 
Southern Highlands, Deacon ex-pressed how important the trip will be. 
“It’s a golf course that tests ev-
ery part of your game," he said. "Our guys have got to be ready to be mentally tough out there.”
Florida will head out west to 
compete over the three-day tour-nament, which takes place March 6 to 8. The toughness of the course will present another challenge for the Gators. 
“It’s another tournament that 
mirrors what a national champi-onship golf course looks like. Our preparation has to be really good for the next week and a half.” Dea-con said. “I’ve got a feeling you’re going to see a really good team in Vegas.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org
Men's golf team begins prep for Las Vegas tournament
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF coach J.C. Deacon (right) speaks with freshman Sam Horsfield during the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Saturday.
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2017
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
On Monday afternoon, coach Tim Walton 
received a phone call from Sophia Reynoso.
She needed help moving a recently pur-
chased pingpong table that was too heavy for 
her and her friends to lift.
Reynoso knew Walton had a truck, so she 
called him up.
“I drove over and picked them up and 
drove them back to their apartment, and I’m 
just laughing the whole way,” Walton said. 
“Because for a freshman to have that kind of courage and conﬁ  dence and guts to call their coach to help them in that situation, I thought that was pretty cool.”
Reynoso shows that same conﬁ  dence and 
savvy on the diamond.  
The 5-foot-4 redshirt freshman from Palm-
dale, California, already has 10 hits and eight RBIs on the season, posting a batting average of .435. She is also one of three players on the roster to hit a triple this year. Once on base, she’s tied for third on the team in stolen bases (3).
And while she’s showed off her skill at the 
plate early, she’s also showcased skills on de-fense. 
As the team’s starting shortstop, Reynoso has come up with several key defensive plays, playing a major role in a Florida defense that has allowed 11 runs in 11 games.
In comparison, the Gators have scored 73 runs.
“I can guarantee you that our left ﬁ  eld, our 
center ﬁ  eld…they like looking out there and 
seeing her at shortstop,” Walton said. “Be-cause she gives them conﬁ  dence because she 
knows what she’s doing. She’s the catalyst. She’s the leader on our inﬁ  eld to really kind of 
help everybody do their job better.”
Reynoso, who opted to redshirt last season 
due to an ACL injury, is ﬁ  nally able to see her 
skills on display at the college level.
“It feels really good to see all the hard work 
I’ve put in is ﬁ  nally paying off,” she said.
“But it’s also knowing I have a lot more im-
proving to do and a lot more to keep working towards.”
Success as a young member of the team 
seems to be a trend on the Florida roster. Jai-mie Hoover, for example, has already hit two grand slams as a freshman and has 12 RBIs.
Fellow freshman Katie Chronister has 
struck out 10 in two starts. 
And while it is Reynoso’s ﬁ  rst season on the 
ﬁ  eld, she’s still not afraid to present her “in-stinct and conﬁ  dence,” according to Walton.
“I think she’s probably one of the friendli-
est competitors I’ve ever been around,” Wal-ton said. “I think for (a) young kid to have that kind of savvy and that kind of instinct and that kind of conﬁ  dence, who wouldn’t want to coach a kid like that?”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org ‘Savvy’ freshman shortstop leading Florida’s infield
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Sophia Reynoso swings during the Aquaﬁ  na Invitational in Gainesville on Friday.
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The Gators operated with a 
marathon mindset on Monday. 
With potential thunderstorms 
projected to touch down in New Orleans on Tuesday, UF played 36 holes in under 10 hours to close out the Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercolle-giate Championship in second place.
Junior Taylor Tomlinson played 
the hero’s role in the third and deciding round, ﬁ  nishing the back 
nine with three birdies and an eagle 
to end her tournament at 8 over.But it wasn’t enough as UF 
dropped the tournament to Stanford, which ﬁ  nished 1 under, by 11 
strokes.
Contrary to their two previous 
tournaments, the Gators started off 
with gusto in the ﬁ  rst round, drain-ing six birdies as a team on the ﬁ  rst four holes. However, only Grassel and Tomlinson took advantage. No-body besides that pair shot below par in either of the subsequent rounds.
“I thought that we were a little 
careless (Sunday) at times,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release after the ﬁ  rst round. “We didn’t pay atten-tion to some of the small details that it takes to play a great team round.”
Kelly Grassel, a senior from Ches-
terton, Indiana, shot a team-best 1 under (215) with the help of a strong second round that featured a bogey-free 18 holes complimented by three birdies.
Fellow senior Maria Torres ﬁ  n-
ished the middle 18 at even par with three successive birdies on the back nine. A 1-over par in the third round 
dropped Torres to ninth among all 
golfers, ending her tournament at even par.
Tomlinson, senior Karolina Vlckova and freshman Marta Perez all tied for 32nd overall in the tour-nament at 8 over (224). Vlckova, 
mirroring the success of Torres and 
Grassel, also performed well in the second round, sandwiching a late bogie with birdies on 16 and 18 to end the round at 3 over and lowering her score by a stroke in the process.
But as well as the Gators swung 
iron in the second round, they couldn’t overcome Stanford. 
“The team isn’t satisﬁ  ed with sec-
ond, and I love that,” Glaser said in a release. “I know that we are a great team. This group is really into the process of getting better every day and ﬁ  guring out how we continue to do that.”
The Gators have a little over two 
weeks to prepare for their home tournament, the SunTrust Gator In-vitational, on March 11 and 12.
“It will be nice to have some time 
to work at home before the Gator In-vite,” Glaser said, “and prepare for all the excitement and emotions that that week brings.”
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
Women’s golf  team takes second place in New Orleans 