We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorUF women’s tennis advances to
National Championship
Gators defeat Vanderbilt 4-2 in the Final Four, pg. 13Credit-card fraud
GPD found its fourth gas-station skimmer of the month, pg. 4
Gunpoint
A man is being accused of pointing a gun at a Williston teen 
while passing him on Southwest Williston Road, pg. 8By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Local organizations in 
Gainesville are selling a limited 
number of custom prints depicting historic businesses, restaurants and landmarks as a way to raise money 
for nonproﬁ  t groups in the area.
Businesses across the city 
worked with custom advertising 
company CityScapes Artwork to 
create a hand-drawn piece of art 
for local organizations to sell in support of their causes.
Greg Magee, a public relations 
employee for CityScapes Artwork, said only about 1,000 copies of the artwork will be printed. These prints are then sold to anyone will-
ing to purchase them, and whatev-
er proﬁ  t is made is donated back to the organizations.
Nonproﬁ  ts like House of Hope 
and the Alachua County Humane Society are some of the organiza-tions that will beneﬁ  t from the print’s proﬁ  ts.
The artwork is best described 
as a “talking time capsule,” Magee said. He said the artwork repre-sents aspects of historic and mod-
ern Gainesville that would resonate 
with residents. 
“It’s a feel-good project, but it 
also is a really unique piece of art-work,” Magee said. 
The project was funded by busi-
nesses who wanted to be repre-sented in the artwork, he said. A copy of the artwork will be given to 
these businesses to display at their 
locations with the hope of custom-ers seeing the artwork and wanting to purchase one for themselves. 
Magee said the amount of his-
tory in Gainesville made the city a prime destination to do this project. 
In addition to historic business-
es, the artwork included popular 
geographic locations in Gainesville 
such as Paynes Prairie Preserve 
State Park and Devil’s Millhopper 
Geological State Park.
Sierra Davis, a 20-year-old UF 
health education and behavior ju-
nior, said she thinks this project is a great way to highlight and support the Gainesville community.
“This drawing is a really good 
way for students and residents to memorialize the city,” Davis said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgVOLUME 111 ISSUE 148 TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
THEY’RE INTENDED TO 
STRENGTHEN THE BLACK 
COMMUNITY.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Black Affairs will initiate 
two new programs in the Fall dedi-
cated to strengthening UF’s black 
community — P.A.A.C.T. and the 
Black Cultural Living Learning Community. 
P.A.A.C.T., which stands for 
Pledging to Advance Academic Ca-pacity Together, is a free, four-to-ﬁ  ve day program for incoming black students that helps them become more familiar with black profession-
als and upperclassmen.  
The program began at UF in 
1998, but it ended about 10 years 
ago due to a lack of funds. 
Sarah Gebretsadik, a UF psychol-
ogy senior and student coordinator for P.A.A.C.T., said it’s a good time to revamp the program because UF’s experienced a low retention 
rate and decrease in incoming black 
students. 
“I just hope to see community 
again within the black community,” 
she said. “I want students to be 
able to feel comfortable enough to acknowledge each other when they walk around campus.” 
The number of incoming black 
freshmen has decreased by about half over the past ﬁ  ve or six years, Gebretsadik said. The 21-year-old added that this may be because UF 
does not have a prominent black 
community. 
“I would encourage any fresh-
men to go to any event where they get to meet people, regardless, but 
P.A.A.C.T. is a type of program 
where you’re meeting a special group where the people have had speciﬁ  c experiences very similar to 
yours,” she said. 
The program was reinstated af-
ter the Black Students Affairs Task 
Force sent out a survey to black students asking them how they felt 
about being black on campus, Ge-
bretsadik said. 
In addition to P.A.A.C.T., Black Affairs paired with UF’s Housing and Residence Education to create a new living center to support the recruitment and retention of UF’s black students.
According to the website, the 
Black Cultural LLC will be a resi-dence hall in the Graham area. Students will be able to participate 
in activities, such as workshops 
and cookouts, that help them learn about black culture and encourage success.
Although these new programs 
are attempting to strengthen the black community, Daniel Weldon, a UF political science junior, said he believes it will degrade the black 
community.
“By design, it assumes black stu-
dents cannot succeed without extra 
help,” Weldon said. “To assume that someone needs extra help only 
because the color of their skin is 
racist.”
The UF linebacker wrote in an 
article on Young America’s Founda-
tion that implementing these pro-
grams are causing black students to self-segregate, and he said this will cause UF’s campus to become less diverse. 
William Atkins, the executive di-
rector of UF’s Multicultural and Di-versity Affairs, said these programs are not mandatory, so students 
don’t have to participate if they 
don’t want to. 
“It’s not something that we are 
forcing students to participate in, but for those students who feel like 
it would be a great resource for 
them, we’re happy to provide that for them,” he said. 
Atkins said he is hopeful that 
many students will participate in the P.A.A.C.T. program. He said UF alumni who have gone through the program many years ago were ex-cited to hear that it was going to be 
coming back to campus. 
“It’s our ﬁ  rst year, so we’ll see 
how this pilot year goes,” Atkins 
said. “As we build momentum, I 
can imagine it will be a great suc-
cess.”
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUF’s Black Aﬀ  airs 
creates new initiatives Limited-edition artwork 
depicts city landmarks
Courtesy to the Alligator
Local organizations paired with CityScapes Artwork to create 
a hand-drawn print that depicts well-known businesses, restaurants and landmarks in the area. The artwork will be sold to beneﬁ  t nonproﬁ  t organizations in Gainesville.
pg. 13
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘River of Dreams’
The Matheson History 
Museum’s new exhibition, 
“River of Dreams: The St. 
Johns and Its Springs,” runs from now until June 24. This original exhibition examines 
Floridians’ past, present and 
future relationship with the St. Johns River and its springs. The exhibition and all related programs are free and open to 
the public. The exhibition in-
cludes original work by pho-tographer Anne Ledbetter and Bruce Mozert; artifacts from 
Kingsley Plantation; a mod-
el of the Silver Glen Springs shell mound; documents and images on loan from UF, Smathers Library, Special & 
Area Studies Collections, and 
the Florida and Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper project; and 
images of the St. Johns River, 
Ocklawaha River and Silver Springs from the Matheson’s photographic, stereographic 
and postcard collections. It 
will be open daily from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. For more informa-tion, visit mathesonmuseum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-lar street artist. In “Layers,” 
Kanishcheva explores abstract 
photography in the study of urban art. The show will in-clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different 
sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby 
Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s Comedy Boom features live 
stand-up comedy every 
Wednesday night. Local come-dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m. and the show begins 
at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will 
accompany the show.
‘Forever Plaid’ at the 
HippodromeJoin the boys of “Forever Plaid” on a humorous ‘heaven-ly’ journey through some of the greatest close-harmony songs 
of the ‘50s during the new mu-
sical at the Hippodrome State Theatre. With one final chance to give the concert they never 
gave, The Plaids sing nostal-
gic hits like “Rags To Riches,” “Love is a Many Splendored Thing,” “Catch A Falling Star,” “Three Coins In A Fountain” 
and many more. The musi-
cal is a mix of ‘50s and ‘60s rock ‘n’ roll, popular show and dance tunes, blended with wit-
ty comedy that has continued 
to delight audiences in cities across the nation. The show will run from May 31 to June 25. To buy tickets or to find 
more information, visit he-
hipp.org/event/forever-plaid.
Author series presents Nathan 
Hill The Alachua County Library District’s 2017 Author Series presents Nathan Hill on June 4 at 2:30 p.m. at the Alachua 
County Headquarters Library, 
located at 401 E. University Ave. Hill, a new literary talent, also kicks off the Summer at 
the Library program. He will 
talk about his debut novel, “The Nix” and sign books af-terward. “The Nix” is a book about ‘60s-era politics and 
strained mother/child rela-
tions. It was named the No. 1 Book of the Year by Audible and Entertainment Weekly, 
as well as one of the year’s 
best books by The New York Times, The Washington Post, Amazon, Newsday, Library Journal and many others. For 
more information about the 
series, visit aclib.us/author-series.
'Uncontainable' at the Thomas 
Center
The Thomas Historic Center Galleries, in partnership with the National Institute of Urban Art, announce the opening of "Uncontainable: Urban Art from Vandalism to Movement" on June 9 from 5 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. The exhibit features a col-lection of work from 26 glob-ally recognized urban artists, some of whom have never been 
exhibited previously, and will 
run from June 9 through Sept. 
9. The artwork on exhibit in 
"Uncontainable" includes two collages by Brian Adam Douglas, 
a large-scale woodcut panel by 
Swoon, a rendition of the re-
nowned Bowery Wall stencil 
piece by Logan Hicks, early silk 
screen work by Shepard Fairey, 
a large canvas by Axel Void, as 
well as work by Retna, Revok, 
Invader, Os Gemeos, Etam 
Cru, How, Nosm and others. 
Never-before-exhibited work 
by Michael Reeder and Juan 
Travieso will debut. For more 
information, visit gvlcultur-
alaffairs.org or contact Russell 
Etling at 352-393-8532.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
Gatormania 
The largest Summer event on campus, Gatormania 2017, will 
be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. 
on the North Lawn. Celebrate Summer B with free food, giveaways, inflatable fun and live performances showcasing 
a variety of student organiza-
tions and campus partners. Don’t miss this opportunity to find your involvement niche. 
The event is hosted by the 
Involvement Team, the am-bassadors of the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. For more infor-
mation, visit studentinvolve-
ment.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 148
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  71°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez , Carter Page, Nicole T anner
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren Johnson TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Zalomé Briceño
Alligator Contributing Writer
A mandarin hybrid developed 
by UF researchers is winning the 
battle against citrus greening.
Citrus greening is a disease 
that has killed millions of Florida trees and caused a sharp decline in production. While looking for ways to combat it, UF research-ers found that mandarin hybrids 
have cellular activity that makes 
them better at ﬁ  ghting against the disease. Nabil Killiny, a UF assistant professor of plant pa-thology, said his study focused on identifying the chemicals that 
make Sugar Belle trees, a type of mandarin hybrid, tolerant to the 
greening disease.
“If we look into the elements 
that make this hybrid tolerant to the greening disease, we can try to transfer these elements to the sweet orange,” he said.
Killiny said the next step is to 
focus on producing the tolerant 
hybrid sweet oranges.James Orrock, a UF plant pa-
thology Ph.D. student, said he be-
lieves it is still too early to draw 
any conclusions.
“This disease is so devastat-
ing,” he said. “Our researchers 
are under a great amount of stress trying to ﬁ  nd a solution.”
For now, the tolerance of the 
Sugar Belle tree and other newly released hybrid species will be further evaluated using controlled studies. If their tolerance is con-
ﬁ  rmed, they will be used to re-
place traditional cultivars.
“UF researchers are putting a 
lot of effort in ﬁ  nding a solution,” Orrock said. “It’s a very difﬁ  cult disease to combat.”
New mandarin hybrid more tolerant to citrus greeningBy Michelle Lam
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Local artists and musicians came together 
this weekend to keep the arts alive. 
On Saturday, a free arts market held at 
High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave, 
collected donations at the door as a way to 
bring art lovers together and highlight the im-
portance of funding in the arts.
The event strived to showcase local talent, 
said Brian Wilson, the event’s organizer.
“Art, in whatever capacity, is crucial to 
the culture and dynamics of any communi-ty,” Wilson said. “A thriving art community is a sign of a healthy community.” 
Wilson said community art events similar 
to Saturday’s can help link artists and mu-sicians who are looking to ﬁ  nd connections with other creative minds in the area. 
“At any art event, the message should be 
to entertain, challenge and stimulate conver-sation,” he said. 
Keeping the arts alive and a part of the 
community is vital for individual self-expres-sion and being able to escape through cre-
ativity, Wilson said.
Pal Patel, a UF biology sophomore, hosted 
a henna booth at the event to help raise mon-ey for her family back in India. 
“I do art to feel culture and to stay rooted,” 
the 19-year-old said. “Doing art is something that reminds me of India, because I can’t al-
ways go back.” 
Other local artists at the arts market shared 
what inspires them to create their craft and pieces. 
CJ Wilson, a 64-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent (of no relation to the event’s organizer), showcased her handmade, knit dolls at the art market. 
“Art is healing, and it helps when things 
are getting really bad,” she said. “Knitting and sewing was a stress relief for me. It helps me feel better.”
Tom Miller, a local artist and musician, 
emphasized the importance of markets where creative people can view each other’s work. 
“Of course everybody should go to it and 
share it with other people,” Miller said. “You 
have to get out to the streets and remember 
there’s a real world out there besides our de-vices.” 
He said whether people create art or not, 
it’s alive.
“It’s important for people to engage with 
art and to become a part of cultural memo-
ry,” the 51-year-old said.Local artists, musicians come together to ‘Keep Art Alive’
Courtesy to the Alligator
Local artist Brian Wilson’s painting on display at High Dive’s Arts Market on 
Saturday evening. Wilson said that his paintings represent the energy of a place, individual or feeling.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017THIS IS THE FOURTH SKIMMER 
POLICE HAVE FOUND IN MAY.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
At about 9 a.m. Thursday, Gainesville 
Police detectives and state inspectors met 
at a West Newberry Road parking lot to launch Operation Clean Sweep.
“Our hope is to not find anything,” 
GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias told detectives, “but if we do, we’ll be ready.”
GPD and inspectors from the Florida 
Department of Agriculture Division of Consumer Services teamed up to search nearly every gas station in Gainesville for a skimmer, a device which can be used to steal credit-card information from custom-ers who pay by card at the pump.
After about five hours of searching 
through about 30 gas stations and hun-dreds of pumps in Gainesville, they found what they were looking for: a skimmer.
GPD found the device at a Texaco sta-
tion, located at 1602 NE Waldo Road, and are still searching for a suspect, Tobias said.Tobias said Florida is one of three states 
in the continental U.S. where credit-card fraud is most common. This is the main reason police are taking a more active ap-proach to finding skimmers in the state, Tobias said.
Thursday’s skimmer was the fourth 
one GPD has pulled in the month of May alone.
For GPD Detective Matt Goeckel, large-
scale skimmer searches such as Operation Clean Sweep are about getting in front of the issue.
Goeckel said officers first began see-
ing skimmers between 2010 and 2011 and suspect the devices are only getting more 
sophisticated. Because suspects can install 
skimmers into pumps so easily, some-times as quickly as 10 minutes, Goeckel said police must be especially alert.
“It takes no time at all,” he said. “It just 
looks like they’re getting gas.”
Charles Davidson, an inspector with 
FDADCS, said it’s nearly impossible to es-timate the number of skimmers he’s found 
inside gas pumps across the state. He’s 
found too many to count, he said.
“It’s not uncommon, but it’s not every-
day — thank goodness,” Davidson said. “They are out there.”
When Rich Reed pulled into the Mara-
thon gas station on Northwest 43rd Street to fill up the tank on his blue pickup truck Thursday afternoon, he reached into his pocket not for a credit or debit card, but for his cellphone.
“If I don’t use Samsung Pay, I use 
cash,” the 33-year-old Alachua County resident said. “I don’t even carry a debit card anymore.”
Reed said he remembers when he first 
saw a skimmer device. About a year ago he said he was getting ready to pump gas at a station down in Volusia County, Flori-da, when a woman noticed the credit-card 
reader on her gas pump was loose.
Luckily for her, Reed said, the police 
came and found the foot-long skimming 
wire before it could steal her card infor-mation. But ever since then, he said he stopped taking any chances.
“It’s not safe to go to the pumps any-
more,” he said. “Hell, it’s not even safe to go to regular ATMs, just about. They’re 
everywhere now.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org GPD: Credit card skimmer found in a Waldo Road gas pump
SKIMMERSSTATIONS WHERE
POLICE FOUND
IN MAY
BP
5310 NW 13th St.
Chevron
1510 S. Main St.
Shell
3831 NW 13th St.
Texaco
1602 NE Waldo RoadBy Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Fewer migratory birds are able 
to keep up with global temperature 
increase, something observed by two researchers at the Florida Mu-seum of Natural History.
A group of researchers from 
various universities around North America, including Stephen Mayor and Robert Guralnick from UF, be-gan a project to discern the effects of climate change on migratory birds. 
The early arrival of spring threw 
off the migratory patterns of nine 
out of 48 songbird species they 
were studying, according to their research. 
Mayor, a post-doctoral research-
er at the museum, said warmer temperatures cause plants to put out new leaves, a process known as the green-up. This then leads to spring-like conditions well before 
winter is over, which Mayor said 
is causing declines in bird popula-tions across the continent. 
“One of our concerns is that 
the increasing mismatch between the birds and their environments will cause populations to decline,” Mayor said.
The research also notes that the 
green-up is only occurring in the eastern portion of North America, 
which still leads to decreasing bird 
reproduction, Mayor said. 
“We were surprised to see, at 
least over this time period of 2001 
to 2012, that in much of western North America spring was arriv-ing later,” Mayor said. “The birds were also arriving later, but again, weren’t keeping up with that pace of change.”
The data used in the study came 
from birders from the U.S. and Can-ada, citizens who record the birds they see in their area. Birders will 
post their observations on ebird.
org, a website that collects data regarding bird activity. Research-ers were able to reach their conclu-sions by utilizing the data collected by this website, Mayor said.
Decreased bird populations 
could also have an effect on hu-mans, Mayor said. He pointed out 
that without migratory songbirds, 
going outside would be a very dif-ferent experience. 
“It’ll feel like spring is here, but 
there will be potentially fewer birds singing, because many of them will not have arrived from the winter-ing grounds,” he said.
Guralnick, who worked with 
Mayor on the project, noted that lower migratory bird populations will lead to an imbalance in the lo-cal food chain. 
“If the birds are gone, the insect 
populations will be less regulated, and that could mean some bad things for ecosystems generally,” Guralnick said.
According to Mayor and Gural-
nick, there are two things people who want to help migratory birds can do. The first is planting native plants in lawns and gardens, which provide the best habitat for migra-tory birds native to the area. 
The second is taking up bird-
watching to help researchers keep 
track of bird populations’ migration 
patterns. 
“Learn birds in your backyard 
and support the work that many people are doing to protect bird species and to create habitats for species,” Guralnick said. “Just hav-ing awareness of issues is a great start, and it leads to people who 
care if our woods have birdsongs 
in them or not.”
@fladam98
aturner@alligator.orgUF researchers discover 
decline in bird migrationBy Jenna Metcalf
Alligator Contributing Writer
On May 13, a UF team came in 
second place and won $5,000 at the 
MuniMod hack-athon competition in Orlando.
MuniMod, a Florida League of 
Cities initiative, is the Southeast’s largest civic tech competition, and it presents teams with civic issues that are currently challenging society. 
Ten teams, all representing dif-
ferent universities, work for four months to create a technology to modernize municipal government. The competition ends with a fi-nal 24-hour hack-athon, where a $10,000 prize is awarded to allow the winning team to continue to 
work on their project. This years 
winning team was from Florida State University.
The UF team, made up of Pablo 
Casilimas, a 22-year-old UF adver-tising senior; Jeff Streitmatter, a 22-year-old UF industrial engineer-ing senior; Ben Anderson a 20-year-old UF public relations; and Hallie 
Zimmerman a 21-year-old UF sus-
tainability and the built environment senior, created a mobile app called “IdenCity.” 
The app allows local city officials 
to post plans and policies, giving citi-zens easy access to review and of-fer feedback through a simple voting feature on their phones.
“We had no idea what we were 
getting ourselves into at first,” Zim-merman said. “We were competing against the best of the best — some graduate and Ph.D. students — but we’ve had extensive training that has prepared us to think creatively, and we were able to pull off a win.”
In mid January, County Commis-
sioner John Dailey contacted UF’s Innovation Academy with the hope of forming a team. 
Zimmerman, who is the presi-
dent of the Innovation Academy Am-bassadors, was tasked with forming 
a group of students to represent UF. “It was a nerve-wracking and 
exciting experience but it taught us 
that if we put our minds to complet-ing something, strategizing about it, and working hard, success will come your way,” she said.
Jeff Citty, the director of Innova-
tion Academy, is hopeful that UF’s success in MuniMod’s first year will 
continue in the future. 
“We teach our students to seek 
out opportunities, apply the design 
process, provide a creative solution, work hard to meet the challenge and do an amazing job presenting,” Citty said. “That is exactly what our team did this year and it paid off.” 
Casilimas said everyone at the 
competition shared a passion for cre-ating something that encompassed a larger user interface. 
“Florida is ranked last in terms 
of civic engagement and the most recent local election in Gainesville only had an 11-percent voter turn-
out,” Casilimas said. “It’s clear that 
civic engagement is something that needs to be changed in our state, so we pitched it to the mayor, to inves-tors — we really wanted this to be a success.” 
The competition may be over, 
but the work is far from finished. The team plans on taking the prize money and investing it into their app to start a pilot in Gainesville and eventually scale it out to other 
municipalities. In order to make it 
fully functional, Casilimas said about $30,000 will be needed. 
“We really want to make this 
thing legit — a part of everyone’s daily life,” he said. “Just like scroll-ing through Facebook or checking your email.”UF places second in hack-athon
Courtesy to the Alligator
The UF team at MuniMod, a hack-athon that took place on May 
13 in Orlando, won second place and was rewarded with $5,000 to put toward their app, “IdenCity. ”
TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kianna Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
Every Monday morning, Ibram 
Kendi parks his car in the orange 
decal parking lot for UF faculty, just north of the O’Connell Center.
Then, he begins the 10-minute 
trek to UF’s Keene-Flint Hall — home to his ofﬁ  ce — just west of Library West.
As he walks, the 35-year-old UF 
African-American history assistant professor from New York City said he often thinks about current events and the lectures he prepared for the day.
As he ﬁ  nally walks up the steps 
to Keene-Flint Hall and enters the doors, he sees the familiar faces of students and colleagues greeting him.He then repeats this routine four 
more times each week.
This walk to his ofﬁ  ce and those 
familiar faces that buzz past him every morning are just some of the things he said he will miss as his time at UF comes to an end.
Kendi accepted a teaching posi-
tion at American University in Wash-ington, D.C., and he will be leaving UF this August, which he announced May 10.
He said the AU staff began a 
months-long effort to recruit him after he headlined several speaking engagements at the AU campus dur-ing Fall 2016.
Kendi said he will continue teach-
ing African-American history and will be founding AU’s Anti-Racist Research and Policy Center. 
“I’m looking forward to most building this center,” Kendi said. “We, as a nation, have been dealing with racial problems for quite some 
time.”
Kendi said he hopes his work at 
AU will be able to prevent future 
incidents of racism AU has seen re-cently. 
One such incident involves Tay-
lor Dumpson, the ﬁ  rst black female president of AU’s Student Govern-ment. 
Dumpson became president May 
1, and that same day, bananas hang-ing by nooses that targeted her and her sorority, Alpha Kappa Alpha, were found around campus.
“I’m excited to go to American 
University and seek to help defend those students and create a campus that shields students from that type 
of activity,” Kendi said.Kendi was a professor of African-
American history, with an emphasis 
on racist and anti-racist ideas and movements, at UF, according to the ofﬁ  cial UF website. 
While at UF, Kendi wrote the 
award-winning “The Black Cam-pus Movement: Black Students and the Racial Reconstitution of Higher 
Education,” which studies some of 
the most transformative academic movements in American history.
“I feel like I came into my own 
as a scholar at UF,” he said. “I will always remember UF for giving that sort of platform and that opportunity to do that.”
Kendi also wrote The New York 
Times Bestseller, “Stamped from the Beginning: The Deﬁ  nitive History of Racist Ideas in America,” which un-covers the history and understand-ing of racist ideology.
“I think what (‘Stamped from the 
Beginning’) does is it changes the conversation,” UF history profes-sor Steven Noll said. “I think that’s very important. It brings up things we weren’t talking about in different ways.”
Although Kendi will be pursu-
ing his passion at AU, he said he will miss being at UF and all his col-leagues for their support.
“I hope he continues to do the 
things that he did here, which is be a public intellectual, and also engage students the way he has,” Noll said.
UF history professor, Lauren 
Pearlman, another of Kendi’s col-leagues, also said she will miss the work he has done and the passion he had at UF.
“I’ll remember Dr. Kendi’s gra-
ciousness for meeting and his will-ingness to give time to students and colleagues alike,” Pearlman said. “He takes the time to ask how col-leagues are doing.”
Ibram Kendi accepts position at American University
He will start the new job in August
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Kelly McPherson felt a sense of relief Friday 
night. The 10-acre wildﬁ  re that erupted in Levy 
Prairie, one of her ﬁ  eld sites, was contained the same day it sparked up.
“We’ve been particularly droughty lately,” 
said McPherson, a senior environmental spe-cialist for Alachua County. “We’re in an indeﬁ  -nite deﬁ  cit with rainfall.”
The Levy Prairie ﬁ  re burned between 
Southwest Williston Road and Interstate 75 on Friday afternoon. It was Alachua County’s ﬁ  fth major ﬁ  re in the past two months, said Melanie Banton, a spokesperson for the Florida Forest Service.By Friday night, FFS personnel had sup-
pressed the ﬂ  ames and continued to monitor the prairie over the course of the weekend, 
Banton said. The ﬁ  re should be considered 
completely extinguished before Monday eve-ning, she said.
Banton said because the ﬁ  re was in a sec-
tion of the prairie that was inaccessible by trucks and bulldozing equipment, FFS ﬁ  reﬁ  ght-ers had to use aircraft and specialized equip-ment to maintain the ﬁ  re.
“They held it back pretty good, and the rain 
helped,” she said.
Since the beginning of the year, about 2,200 
wildﬁ  res have burned more than 171,000 acres across the state, said Aaron Keller, a spokesper-son for the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. On April 11, Florida Gov. Rick Scott signed an executive order de-claring a state of emergency, citing the state’s 
severe drought conditions and seven large wild-
ﬁ  res across the state, including one in Marion County that burned about 700 acres, according to Alligator archives.
McPherson said wildﬁ  res in Florida during 
the spring and summer months aren’t a sur-prise.
“It’s normal,” she said. “It’s been in the 
landscape of Florida since before the Europe-
ans got here.”
However, this year’s drought conditions 
change the game slightly, she said. Fires can 
spring up far more easily now and dry soil. Lightning from summer thunderstorms and lack of rain can make for devastating outbreaks.
“Those sorts of ﬁ  res can smoke for extreme-
ly long periods of time, and that’s something 
that’s not good in an urbanizing landscape,” 
McPherson said, “smoke being one of the big-gest dangers for trafﬁ  c accidents.”
Rain over this past weekend and stormy 
forecasts for this week have helped areas like the Panhandle, but other sections of the state like North Central Florida haven’t had such a lucky difference in the drought, Keller said.
“We’re going to need continued rain to bring 
these counties out of signiﬁ  cant drought,” he said. “One rainstorm can’t completely alleviate the danger.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgAlachua County experiences ﬁ  fth ﬁ  re in past two months
The ire comes amid state of emergency, surge in wildiresThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Editorial
To our readers, who never go unappreciated: As I’m sure 
you’re all aware, in life, change is inevitable. Every second of every day, our world is changing. The U.S., the state of Florida, the city of Gainesville and UF: all changing. For more than 100 years, we at the Independent Florida Alli-
gator have prided ourselves in the strong connection we’ve made with the community by printing stories that you can pluck out of an orange box and hold in your hands on any given weekday in the Fall and Spring. Whether it’s delivering breaking news or col-orful feature stories, we have always been there for you. That is something that will not change and never will. However, the way that community members, UF students and faculty receive and read the news is changing, and we recognize this. The pace of our world continues to quicken, and the speed at which our com-
munity consumes news is increasing as well. To better accom-
modate your needs, dear reader, we must make some relatively dramatic changes. And so, although the Alligator will always de-liver news to our readers when they need it most, we will only print our physical paper three times a week during the Fall and Spring semesters: Monday, Wednesday and Friday. 
This change is not only an incentive for the Alligator to in-
crease the amount of content we produce on our website and social media accounts, but it gives us the opportunity to improve 
the quality of content we physically print as well. Three days 
a week, our paper will be stuffed to the gills with the most en-tertaining, significant and critical news pertaining to our special community.
Starting at the end of August, we hope that our devoted read-
ers will already be connected to our website, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and mobile app. Not only will breaking news appear on the Alligator’s social media pages faster than we ever have in the past, but we will be implementing an online newsletter that 
will deliver news in the fastest, simplest and most convenient 
fashion. Again, the content that the Alligator provides will not in any way decrease. It will increase, and it will improve. In a way, we’ve been presented with a blessing. In addition to incorporat-ing more detail to stories that were perhaps restricted by limited spacing beforehand, we’ll be able to focus on diversifying and improving our print publication’s normal layout. To put it simply, every aspect of our paper will be kicked up a notch — and we hope that’s something everyone can celebrate.
In the recent years, media practitioners have faced tumultu-
ous times. Hopefully, dear readers, you’ve come to realize that journalism is not, in fact, dead. We very well may be basking in its golden age. But, as mentioned before, change is inevitable. As revenue from print advertising drops at an unprecedented rate, we must adjust, we must evolve, we must move forward. De-creasing revenue, especially for student-run college newspapers, is a problem that most publications in our country are actively searching for solutions to. Transitioning from five to three days a 
week in the Fall and Spring semesters is just our way of adjusting 
and improving, and we can’t wait to take you all with us. 
I, along with my colleagues at the Alligator — truly some of 
the most hardworking students at UF — feel enormously satis-fied and proud to have had the opportunity to print a publica-tion five times a week. Despite the decrease in our weekly print circulation, we will continue to operate as one of the best college newspapers in the country, and (always independently) we will continue to make you proud.The Alligator to 
adjust circulation 
starting in August
Column
China can’t understand the US ‘white left’
Former President Barack Obama had high praise 
for many of the traditional adversaries of the U.S. during his eight years in office. From Cuba 
to Iran, Obama tried to mend past differences 
and bring former enemies to the negotiating ta-
ble through generous rhetoric. Obama singled out one country above all others in his praise: China.  
Obama marveled at Xi Jinping’s rapid consolidation 
of power, at the Chinese infrastructure that dwarfed that of the U.S., at the Chinese ability to “build things,” but he might have been surprised at how the Chinese people viewed him and his political beliefs. 
It turns out that the Chinese astutely observed how 
the Obama administration’s leftist policies made the U.S. take a step back on the world stage. They have almost no comprehension for the issues that most lib-
erals believe are the most pressing, such as climate 
change, LGBTQ+ rights and open immigration, as their country places very little emphasis on these is-sues and holds very different views on how they should be handled. The Chinese believe that people so 
heavily focused on these values are the true threat to 
western hegemony.
They think the left benefitted, more than any global 
group, from the rising, post-World War II living stan-
dards. They understand that left-wingers have seen 
such a rise in their living standards compared to the rest of the world, and they simply cannot sympathize with the pressing issues that matter to other global citizens. For example, the left in the U.S. care deeply 
about LGBTQ+ rights and, even after legalizing gay 
marriage, continue to fight for privileges for members of this group. The Chinese, along with most other peo-ple around the world, are shocked by this, as they can 
barely deal with more pressing issues, such as feeding their people. The rest of the world’s inability to under-
stand why the U.S.’s left has spent so much political capital for such a small percentage of the population 
evidences that the liberals in the U.S. are entirely out 
of touch with issues of global importance. The Chinese realize that spending time and resources on this issue will impact an infinitesimally smaller group of people 
than other “real” issues, like fighting terrorism or cre-
ating economic growth and thus see it as wasteful.  
The Chinese view the “white left” (or “baizuo,” a 
derogatory name for American liberals) as a real threat to western hegemony and see their political views as 
deeply hypocritical. The white left is seen to care about 
political correctness more than anything, even when it threatens their way of life, which is what the Chinese see as hypocritical. They see the white left prioritizing 
the feelings of their enemies above the feelings of their 
allies and themselves. They have watched countries in Europe cater to the rights of Islamic migrants and refugees and simultaneously watched these countries lose legitimacy (i.e., French police “no-go zones”) 
and watched their cultures diluted to avoid incorrect-
ness. They see these white leftists as being blind to the threat of radical Islam out of a misplaced sense of self-righteousness and know that if those policies persist, 
they will contribute to the demise of the West.   
The white left in this country might be smart to 
reassess their views from the Chinese perspective.  Af-
ter all, can 1.3 billion people, so heavily praised by Obama, be wrong?
Jack Story is UF political science graduate. His col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
UWire
I don’t mean to say the sayings included 
in this article are things that female, nonbinary or trans people have never 
said, but I think it’s important to iden-
tify the condescending language that 
men use to establish masculinity. “Mascu-line” and “feminine” are two words that 
have become problematic in the gender 
spectrum, but I’ll tackle that issue in an-other 600 words or so. For now, I’ll dis-cuss the type of behavior that makes some cisgender, heterosexual men feel stronger 
in this incredibly heteronormative world. 
Behold: mansplaining.
I say “some” with the purpose of not 
hurting my male friends’ feelings; I know 
you don’t do this to be condescending. 
In fact, I have at times prefaced a con-descending statement with, “Not to be condescending, but …” From my own re-search and basic interaction with people, 
this language typically comes from cis-
gender, heterosexual males, regardless of how good, pure or well-intentioned they are in conversing with other people in 
their lives. Moving on.
Different types of mansplaining are 
used in varying situations. Sometimes, a 
male may say something about your life as a female, nonbinary or trans person that 
they don’t know anything about. For in-
stance, a man may tell you that he thinks women actually like being cat-called.
“I bet if your favorite celebrity cat-
called you, you would like it because ev-eryone likes attention.” Mr. Man, in this case, clearly knows more than I, the own-er of these breasts and this vagina. These are only some of the body parts that suit 
me for objectiﬁ  cation — ahem — cat-call-
ing at any time of day in the streets.
Also, sometimes a large group of cis-
gender, heterosexual men simply believe 
that females who want to abort a fetus are 
wrong, so they do something ofﬁ  cial and legal about it. They do this even though they will never suffer from the direct ﬁ  -nancial, physical, psychological or emo-
tional repercussions of a medical proce-
dure completed entirely outside of their own bodies. I’m using “sometimes” loose-ly, of course.
Wait, I’m being insensitive, aren’t I? Sometimes, mansplaining just depends on which sense of masculinity is being threatened at any given moment.
Have you ever discussed music with or 
near a cisgender, heterosexual man? Like, a cisgender, heterosexual man who really knows music? You’ll know he knows mu-
sic because he knows he knows music, 
and he wants to let it be known that he knows music. Some phrases you may hear from him include (with a sarcastic tone), “You don’t know who (insert artist) is?,” 
when you don’t know of a particular art-
ist. There is also the possible, “There’s so much better (insert genre) music out there!,” after you play a certain genre of 
music they know a lot better than you, 
obviously. Men could argue this is a tech-nique to ﬂ  irt or spark a conversation, or maybe they just really needed to let you know in an afﬁ  rmative tone of voice that 
… they know.
I have been the main subject in all of 
these situations, yet how do I, a cisgen-
der, heterosexual female, know that these 
cisgender, heterosexual males are saying 
these things and patronizing me? How do I know the mind of a man if I am not a man myself?
My generation, like many before me, 
grew up with phrases such as “boys will be boys,” associations of blue and pink, designated toy sections, the deﬁ  nition of “strong,” identiﬁ  cation through hair 
length and assigned formal wear at school 
events. “Strength” meant muscles, deep voices and towering height. We refer to items fabricated as “man-made,” and hu-mans altogether are referred to as “man-
kind” even though the fetuses which cre-
ate humans are things that males decide we can’t abort, yet are entirely carried in a female’s body. This language and het-
eronormative agenda empowers the male 
gender, and it threatens the gender spec-trum with its conﬁ  dent language backed by a history of learned dominance.
But what do I know?
Karla Arboleda is a journalism and 
international studies senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.With the ﬁ  rst season of comic Aziz Ansari’s unique creation in Netf-lix’s "Master of None" delivering a slick and experimental dissec-tion of everything from modern 
dating to racial stereotypes, this month gave us yet another sensational season of Ansa-ri’s quirky yet masterful satire. Diving fur-ther into the show’s central characters, this Emmy-winning series returns with fantastic delight and some of the best writing on TV right now.
After a sudden break-up with his ex-girl-
friend Rachel leaves Dev (played by Aziz An-sari) struggling to ﬁ  nd himself again, he soon ends up in a small town in Italy. Apprenticing as a pasta chef, Dev has found solace in the quiet town and the new friends he’s made. Following his apprenticeship, Dev travels back to New York, where a massive career opportunity puts him back in show business. As his life begins to take a turn for the better back in the Big Apple, however, an old friend from Italy (Alessandra Mastronardi) takes a massive toll on Dev’s emotional state. As the show takes us on an emotional and complex journey into the lives of Dev and his friends, the stakes have only gotten greater in the sec-ond season of this charming series.
Bringing back its staple “cringe humor” 
and realistic outlook on contemporary soci-ety, "Master of None" only upped the ante in the second season, as it traveled far be-yond its original setting of New York City, and even further inward into its protagonist’s humanity. Strung along by its charming cast, from Ansari to its newest cast members, "Master of None" once again prided itself on exploring nonconventional storytelling and using masterful dialogue to its advantage.
Right from the ﬁ  rst episode of the second 
season, I knew I would fall madly in love with this series once more. Moving from its initial setting of contemporary New York City, where season one explored themes of modern dating, birth control and Indian stereotypes, season two began in one of the most captivating countries on Earth. Already diving into the emotional state of its central character, Dev, as he learns pasta-making in Italy, we’re given an introduction to his char-acter this season through an episode parody-ing the 1948 ﬁ  lm “Bicycle Thieves.” The show does not solely beneﬁ  t from its 
awareness of classic pop culture however, it also utilizes the similar format of its ﬁ  rst season to paint an even more complex, char-acter-driven story in season two. With Dev eventually returning to New York in order to further pursue his career in show business, the central perspective of Ansari’s lead is not the only one we witness throughout the sea-son. This season explores the conventions of modern religion, as well as the modern is-sues of the LGBTQ+ community, through the eyes of Dev’s friend Denise (Lena Wait-he). Probably one of the main reasons the show is able to appeal to mass audiences, its ability to convey somewhat controversial is-sues in a light that seems revealing but all the same satirical makes it all the more enjoyable to watch.
While this season does have its fun ex-
ploring such things as religion, dating apps and cooking shows through the eyes of vari-ous characters, one of the things that made the return of "Master of None" such a com-pelling endeavor had to be the show’s central premise of Dev ﬁ  nding himself and his pur-pose in the whirlwind that is contemporary America. Whether it’s through progressing his career as an Indian man on television, or ﬁ  nding “the one” on the streets of New York, Ansari’s ﬂ  uent wit and energy throughout the series deﬁ  nitely made for a fascinating return for the series. With this season also introducing a new love interest in Alessan-dra Mastronardi’s Francesca, the undeniably heart-breaking complexity of modern love found in later episodes of the season made for even greater television.
Overall, while season one did stand out 
with its smart dissection of modern society, season two of Netﬂ  ix’s "Master of None" managed to up the ante as it traveled to Italy and brought back even more satire and ro-mance for the series than before. With An-sari’s writing and lead performance shining just as they did in season one, "Master of None" delivered another bingeable season of heart-breaking love, phenomenal self-aware-ness, and beautiful storytelling.
A version of this column by Tyler 
Trudeau originally ran in Niner Times.
Column
Dissectible interactions with smart men 'Master of None' second-season review8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.org
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
The other side of a pointed gun was the 
last thing a 19-year-old Williston resident 
and UF employee expected to see on his trip to Gainesville for a doctor’s appointment Thursday.
Kentrell Herman Houston, 26, is ac-
cused of pointing a handgun directly at the 19-year-old while passing by him in the left lane on Southwest Williston Road in sepa-rate vehicles, according to a Gainesville Po-lice report.
“He was hauling butt,” said Anthony, 
the Williston teenager who declined to give his full name in order to protect his privacy.
Houston was tailgating Anthony for some 
time while they both traveled eastbound, according to the report. Anthony said when the road opened up from two lanes to four lanes, near Interstate 75, Houston whipped his grey Chevy Malibu around on the left lane, extended his arm across his passenger and aimed a handgun right at him.
“I had to swerve off the road a bit,” An-
thony said, to protect himself and his two passengers: a pregnant woman in the pas-senger seat and another friend in back.
Anthony said Houston didn’t ﬁ  re the gun 
or say anything as he passed by.
Anthony said he immediately followed 
Houston’s car for about ﬁ  ve minutes to “get his tag” and then called 911. After about 30 minutes, police found Houston in the ve-
hicle at 740 NE 23rd Ave. and brought An-
thony to conﬁ  rm his description, according to the report.
Police patted Houston down and found 
a handgun in the front waistband of his 
shorts, at which point Houston told them 
about the loaded magazine he had in his pockets, according to the report. 
Ofﬁ  cers were unable to locate a passen-
ger that Anthony described being in Hous-ton’s car at the time of the incident, accord-ing to the report.
According to the report, Houston admit-
ted to “picking up the gun” but told police 
he didn’t point it at Anthony. He also said 
Anthony was “brake checking” when he was behind him, which is why he passed on the left.
Houston is on federal probation for past 
charges of armed robbery and served three years in prison, according to the report. Houston faces charges of aggravated assault and possession of a ﬁ  rearm while consid-
ered a convicted felon.
Houston remains in the Alachua County 
Jail on Monday in lieu of a $250,000 bond. 
He could not be reached for comment as of press time.
Anthony said he did end up making the 
doctor’s appointment, even though he ar-rived late. Now that the incident is behind him, he said he just wants to get back to 
normal. 
“I’m trying to forget about it,” he said. 
“That’s what I’m trying to do.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org UF employee held at 
gunpoint by another driver while on Williston Road
By David Street 
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF engineering professors have been 
selected by the U.S. Department of Defense 
to receive millions of dollars of funding to study how the brain learns.
In April, Kevin Otto and Karim Oweiss of 
UF’s Herbert Wertheim College of Engineer-ing were two of eight nationwide leaders se-lected in April to receive $4.2 million each from the Defense Advanced Research Proj-ects Agency.
The agency’s Targeted Neuroplasticity 
Training program will give Otto and Oweiss yearly funding to study brain training on sep-arate teams. Although the two scientists will 
have different approaches, they will both be 
working toward the common goal of ﬁ  guring out how the brain learns.
The researchers involved in this project 
will primarily be experimenting on rodents. According to Oweiss, members will estab-lish a baseline learning grade of each ro-dent. They will then stimulate each rodent’s peripheral nerves to assess to what extent 
they can either perform the same tasks faster 
or learn to solve more complex tasks. Ro-dents are often used in experiments because they’re sophisticated and are able to behave and learn, Otto said. 
The term “peripheral nerves” refers to the 
peripheral nervous system. It’s a network of 43 pairs of motor and sensory nerves that connect the brain and spinal cord to the hu-
man body.
Otto said one of the biggest reasons he 
became interested in this project is because 
of his interest in brain plasticity and how the nervous system requires information. His biggest goal is to understand the stimulation of peripheral nerves, espe-cially in the way they in-terface with other parts of 
the body. 
“If we understood how 
to interface with them 
effectively (peripheral nerves) and really develop 
those interfaces to have the effect that we thought 
we could achieve, we could treat many, many 
problems that stem from 
disease or injury or other-wise,” Otto said.
Oweiss will be working 
with Qi Wang, an assistant professor of biomedical 
engineering at Columbia University. According to 
Oweiss, Wang is subcontracted under his 
contract.
The biggest goal for Oweiss in this experi-
ment is to accelerate human cognitive skill 
learning, even when it comes to human ag-ing.
“That has much wider implications than 
just accelerating someone’s ability to learn a new language or make better sense of intel-ligence information,” Oweiss said.
Oweiss is also interested in the connec-
tion between the human brain and comput-ers. He wants to make computers smarter and said that’s possible with help from the human brain.
“The brain is a great organ to learn from. 
If we learn how the brain learns, then we can make computers better learners,” Oweiss said.
@dstreet177
dstreet@alligator.orgUF professors part of team 
to see how brain learns
Otto
Oweiss
TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
Courtesy to the Alligator
The mural painted on the 34th Street Wall in honor of Mental Health Awareness Month by local group AnARTists signifies the 
organization’s belief that “Art Heals. ” One of the organization’s goals is to stop the stigma behind mental illness.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Last week, middle schoolers at Howard W. Bishop Middle School, located at 1901 NE Ninth St., designed and launched rockets that they presented to engineers at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center the next day. More than 200 students participated.
By Daniela Garrido
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 200 sixth-grade students in 
Gainesville visited NASA to present rockets they 
constructed in a middle-school science, technol-ogy, engineering and math (STEM) project to professional engineers.
Eddie Harper, a 12-year-old sixth-grade stu-
dent and first-time participant in the STEM proj-
ect, was one of hundreds of students launching 
rockets at Howard W. Bishop Middle School on Wednesday before visiting NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Titusville, Florida, on Thursday.
“We had to make the cylinder part of the 
body, and we folded the top piece over and added wings to the rocket,” Harper said. “Mine went up 70 feet.”
To make the project possible, the middle 
school collaborated with Hands on Gainesville, a local nonprofit that promotes STEM education.
This year, three teachers worked together to 
teach 60 groups of 4 to 5 students how to build different rockets: soft rockets, water bottle rock-ets and alpha III model rockets.
Chloe Winant, a sixth-grade science teacher 
for gifted students at the middle school, played a key role in making this project happen for all students in the school.
“The school has a magnet program that is for 
technology and gifted students,” Winant said, 
“and then there’s a general program that we like 
to call the major program, because it’s the ma-jority of the students.”
Winant worked with two teachers from the 
major program to give students from different levels the opportunity to participate in the proj-ect as well.
Lynn Padgett, a sixth-grade science teacher 
for major program students, said rounding up 
donations and funding so that lower-income stu-
dents could attend the $50 trip to NASA was one of the project’s great successes.
Padgett said the project taught students, par-
ents and teachers the virtues of teamwork and perseverance.
“When we were planning the project and 
their field trip to NASA, I got a lot of calls from parents making sure their children could go,” 
Padgett said. “Fortunately, we were able to get 
some donations and scholarships.”
Next year, she said the school hopes to col-
laborate with Kids in the Woods, another local nonprofit that promotes wildlife learning, to teach students about bird and plant life in the Gainesville.Middle schoolers present handmade rockets at NASABy Sammi Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
As a resource for emotional 
expression and healing, a group 
of local community members pro-
moted mental health awareness by 
painting a mural on the 34th Street Wall.
In honor of May being Mental 
Health Awareness month, An-ARTists, an organization com-prised of artistic individuals in Gainesville, painted a four-wall art display between Southwest Second 
Avenue and Radio Road in order to 
address the topic of mental health.
The mural, which is about 60 
feet long, was painted by about 15 
members of AnARTists on May 7.
Theresa Foster, a leader of An-
ARTists, said she hopes the mural 
portrays the message that people with mental health issues are no 
different than anyone else.
“It’s not just about awareness,” 
Foster said. “We are inviting peo-
ple to take care of themselves.”
On the first wall, alongside 
puzzle pieces and a yin and yang symbol, “Stop The Stigma” was written in bright green letters. Fos-ter said this was written because 
some people feel ashamed to dis-
cuss their mental health problems, which is an issue that must be ad-dressed within the community.
Dr. Sandy Levy, a local psy-
chologist, said based on a recent study, Florida ranks 51 out of 52 jurisdictions in lack of funding for state mental health programs.
Levy said that because the 
group is not a certified nonprofit, finding funding is difficult. How-ever, she said the group is hoping 
to eventually become a nonprofit 
with the help of other local orga-nizations such as the National Al-liance on Mental Illness (NAMI) of Gainesville.
Florida Gov. Rick Scott, Rep. 
Ted Yoho and Sen. Keith Perry have the power to change that, Levy said, which is in part why AnARTists members included the politicians’ names on the mural’s 
fourth wall.
AnARTists, which meets the 
last Tuesday of every month at 
the Helping Hands Clinic, located at 509 NE First St., exists to break that stigma and reinforce that it’s OK to talk about mental health.
Foster said the group, although 
not intended to be therapy, pro-vides workshops that stimulate mental health conversation and create opportunities to elaborate 
one’s artistic expression, especial-
ly through visual art. One of the goals of the mural was to convey that purpose, Foster said.“My goal of being part of An-
ARTists is to build a community that uses art for healing and self-
care,” Foster said. “This is really 
precious, because it’s something I didn’t have when I desperately needed it.”
Maggie Hannon, an AnARTists 
leader and a recreational thera-pist for inpatient psychiatry at UF Health Shands Hospital, said although AnARTists has already made much progress in the com-munity, the group is always seek-ing resources to provide its mem-
bers a variation of outlets for 
healing.
“I am really proud of 
Gainesville. They provide an eight-hour first aid course for people to 
feel more comfortable dealing with 
mental illness,” she said. “How-ever, there is still much more that needs to be done.”Mural painted to end stigma surrounding mental healthBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Apt for rent 720 NW 19th Ave. Available July 
1. 2BR/1BA, W/D, completely remodeled, large backyard. Monthly rent $685, $800 security deposit. Call 352-371-3473. Please leave message  6-6-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsGOODBIKE / 2 Locations
Bicycle Sales and Service
425 NW 13th St ● 352-792-6600
210 NW 10th Ave ● 352-327-3727Big selection of new & used bikes    5-23-17-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-3901    6-13-17-8-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage $950 mo
Walk to UF. Off street parking. Avail now.We require a first, last and a $500 sec to move in. $40 app/credit check. No Pets 332-5836 weekdays    5-30-17-6-2
Takeover my lease and I'll give you $500. 3bd/2bath apartment available for sublease at Boardwalk Apartments starting June 2017. Rent is $999. Call (786)445-6444 for more information.     5-30-17-5-2
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11  
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Wanted someone to complete building a website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.********Opus Coffee**********Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr. To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     5-25-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) to assist Quadriplegic w/ADL activities PT: 2-3 providers needed6 AM-10 AM; 12-16 hours weekly $17-$20 hour; CNA or EquivalentContact: caregiverprovider@cox.net     5-30-5-14
Ground Floor Opportunity forMD/DC/PA/ARNP/AP - New Integrated Medicine Clinic.PT/FT. All inquiries strictly confidential. eMail: groundfloor2016@gmail.com    6-1-17-5-14
Farm Help Wanted:
Experience operating yard/farm mainte-
nance equipment required; 8-10 hrs per 
week (Fridays and weekends) ; private farm in Alachua, Florida; must provide own trans-portation. 352-258-3571    6-6-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
1. In 2015, Ryan Braun became the 
Milwaukee Brewers’ all-time leader 
in home runs. Who had held the top 
spot?
2. Three major-league players had 
careers of at least 3,000 hits and 600 
home runs. Name them.
3. Who was the first defensive player 
to be named MVP of the Super Bowl?
4. How many times has Villanova’s 
men’s basketball team reached the Final Four, and how many times have 
the Wildcats won the title?
5. Who was the first Philadelphia 
Flyers player to tally 50 or more goals 
in a season?
6. Name the first athlete born in the 
year 2000 or later to win a gold medal in an Olympic sport.
7. When was the last time before the 
2016 Ryder Cup that the U.S. men’s golf team won the event by at least six points?
Answers:
1. Robin Yount, with 251.2. Hank Aaron, Willie Mays and 
Alex Rodriguez.
3. Linebacker Chuck Howley of the 
Dallas Cowboys in Super Bowl V .
4. Villanova has reached the Final 
Four five times and won it all twice (1985, 2016).
5. Rick MacLeish had 50 goals in 
the 1972-73 season.
6. Swimmer Penny Oleksiak of Can-
ada, in 2016.
7. It was 1981, when the U.S. won 
18.5-9.5.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 22, 2017 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
NORTHFLO CROSSFIT
offering UF staff and student student dis-
count. $99 dollars a month. We also offer 
personal training and nutrition. Call Today 352-470-9131    5-23-17-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
MINI DACHSHUND - 8 weeks old. Veterinary 
certified. All 1st shots. 3 males, 3 females. 2 fem - black dapple long hair; 3 males - pie-balds short hair. $225 each. Melrose area. Call 352-473-7581    5-23-17-1-24
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Place for wet
cannonballs
5 Volcanic rocks
10 Move like a river
14 Vineyard unit
15 Plant used in
tequila production
16 Spencer of “Good
Morning America”
17 Really wiped out
18 Private’s denial19 Like many resold
items
20 *Teaching aid for
learning foreigntongues
23 Tot’s piggy24 Like an accurate
hockey shot
25 Arbor Day month27 Brute30 Tackled, as a
task, with “at”
33 With competence
36 Orderly
38 “__ I lie to you?”
39 Spy org. created
under Truman
40 Appetizer often
served with duck
sauce
42 Prefix with centric
or caching
43 Dermatologist’s
surgical tool
45 “__ girl!”46 “Believe” singer47 Theater guides49 Sun-related
51 Plunders
53 Died down57 Place to de-stress59 *Deep blue
gemstone
62 Angelic glow64 Dreadlocks
wearer
65 “__ la Douce”66 Essential point67 Promotional
connection
68 Black, to a poet69 Ship’s backbone
70 Mortimer on
Bergen’s knee
71 See 63-Down
DOWN
1 Picasso who
painted Gertrude
Stein
2 Arctic or Indian
3 Sumatran ape4 Allow to pass5 *Superboy’s
girlfriend6 Intensely excited
7 Ming museum
piece
8 Hometown of 
St. Teresa
9 High-ranking
angel
10 Winter ailment11 *Satisfaction after
setbacks
12 Layered cookie
13 Get one’s
tootsies wet
21 Dubai’s fed.
22 Saloon slugfest26 Altar words28 Sonic the
Hedgehog gamecompany
29 Small fruit pies
31 Pure joy
32 What the nose
knows
33 Civil rights gp.34 Skewed view
35 *Cowboy star
with a bullwhip
37 Terrier on the
Yellow Brick Road
40 Filmdom’s Flynn
41 2016 Best Picture
(no, wait; itwasn’t!) ... and afitting place for
the answers to
starred clues?44 Fair-hiring letters
46 Comparatively
outlandish
48 Inaugurates50 Case workers’
org.?
52 Iberian Peninsula
country
54 Supercharger55 “St. __ Fire”56 “Cheers” 
waitress
57 Potato holder58 Like 24-karat
gold
60 “__ skies of blue
and clouds ofwhite ... “: “Whata WonderfulWorld”
61 Recipe instruction63 With 71-Across,
rocker whose firstname anagrams
a West Coast
airport code
By Ed Sessa
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/23/1705/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
The UF women's golf team advanced to match play in the NCAA Championships on Monday. Maria T orres  ﬁ  nished 
the day at even-par. Read the story, pg. 16.
 Former UF safety charged with larceny, battery
Former Florida and Baltimore Ravens safety Matt Elam  was arrested 
Monday in Delray Beach, Florida, on charges of grand theft and battery. He 
remains in jail on $4,500 bail.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
As JJ Schwarz rumbled over to 
ﬁ  rst base and recorded the ﬁ  nal 
out of Florida’s regular season ﬁ  nale, the players in UF’s dugout 
couldn’t help but erupt with 
emotion.
It had just become ofﬁ  cial. The 
Gators were SEC champions.
Facing Kentucky on Saturday 
afternoon with the conference 
regular-season title on the line, 
Florida’s offense came up huge in the moments that mattered most.
Led by four RBIs from 
sophomore outﬁ  elder Nelson Maldonado, the Gators scored six 
unanswered runs in the fourth, 
ﬁ  fth and sixth inning combined, blowing the lead wide open in 
an eventual 6-4 win against the 
Wildcats.
The victory over Kentucky 
secured UF’s fourth SEC championship over the last 
10 years and led coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan to praise his team after the contest.“There are so many things 
behind the scenes that have 
to go right to win any type of 
championship, let alone an SEC Championship,” O’Sullivan said in 
a release. “Our guys just continued 
to battle and ﬁ  ght through some adversity. It’s very enjoyable. I’m 
happy for the players.”
But now, after a successful 
regular season, the No. 4 Gators (40-15, 21-9 SEC) have ofﬁ  cially 
hit postseason play.
Florida will open the SEC 
Tournament on Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. against the winner of a contest between Auburn and Ole 
Miss.
The Tigers (34-22, 16-14 SEC) 
swept UF in the only regular season series played between the 
two teams this spring, while the Rebels (32-24, 14-16 SEC) lost all 
three games they played against 
the Gators earlier this month.
The key for Florida this 
postseason – a team entering the SEC Tournament as the No. 1 seed of the bracket – will be its depth  UF wins SEC, prepares for conference tournamentBASEBALL
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Nelson Maldonado prepares to swing during Florida's 3-2 loss 
against T ennessee on April 8, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
Jake Dreilinger
@DreilingerJake
Everyone remembers Chris 
Chiozza’s buzzer-beating ﬂ  oater 
from behind the three-point line 
to send the Gators to the Elite Eight over Wisconsin.
Everyone remembers “The 
Stand,” where Florida’s football 
team kept LSU from scoring what 
could have been a game-winning touchdown on the goal line.
But how about when track and 
ﬁ  eld freshman Grant Holloway went from sixth place to ﬁ  rst on the last leg of the 4x400 relays at the Pepsi Relays here in Gainesville?
People remember the Chiozza 
buzzer beater and “The Stand” because they involved UF's two biggest sports teams.
Holloway’s come-from-behind 
victory was just as big in its own way, so why weren’t people UF's smaller 
sports should 
be appreciated 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Brooke Austin hits a backhand during Florida's 4-2 win against Oklahoma State on Feb. 18, 2017, at 
the Ring T ennis Complex.
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Standing and smiling in the 
middle of the court, Brooke Austin 
was swarmed by eight screaming Gators. After a jumping huddle with the team and assistant 
coaches, high ﬁ  ves came from 
every direction as “It’s great to be a Florida Gator” echoed through Georgia’s indoor tennis facility. 
The Gators women’s tennis 
team is going to play for a national championship. 
With a 4-2 win over Vanderbilt 
in the Final Four, Florida was 
able to get revenge against the 
conference foe that beat it two times earlier this season. It also gave coach Roland Thornqvist his 400th win in his 16-year tenure at Florida. 
Rain caused the start time of 
the match to be shifted constantly throughout the day. Originally 
scheduled to play outdoors at 4 
p.m., lightning forced the game indoors three hours later. 
Florida came ready to play on 
Monday, starting strong in doubles. Anna Danilina and Ingrid Neel were ﬁ  rst off the court with a quick and easy 6-1 win over Vandy’s Astra Sharma and Emily Smith. 
After trading points to tie the 
set at 3-all, Austin and Kourtney Keegan pulled away to win 6-4 over Sydney Campbell and Emma Kurtz. 
Singles proved to be much more 
difﬁ  cult for the Gators as Vanderbilt held its own. Josie Kuhlman was  Gators to play for 
National ChampionshipWOMEN'S TENNIS
SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 15Jake ‘N’ Bake14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
An individual SEC 
champion, five team wins and 
four more top-five finishes. 
The Florida men’s golf team 
had all of the keys it needed to have a successful 2016-17 campaign.
However, after a derailing 
final round at the NCAA West Lafayette Regional, the Gators season came to an abrupt and deflating finish.
Two straight wins on the 
road in Orlando and Ponte Vedra, Florida, were followed by a disappointing fourth place 
finish at home. 
Then, a trip to Las Vegas 
saw the Gators finish in the 
bottom half of the leaderboard at the Southern Highlands 
Collegiate. 
SEC individual champion 
Alejandro Tosti also followed 
his impressive weekend at the SEC Championships with a 28th-place finish at the NCAA Regionals, capping a disappointing end to a season 
full of potential.
The Gators will have to wait 
until the fall of 2017 to play in 
a college tournament again.
Sam Horsfield will leave to 
pursue a professional career in golf. Ryan Orr is also gone to graduation and Tosti will be entering his senior year in 
2017.
Earlier this season, Deacon 
had high praise for his 
players, calling the group a “championship team.” 
But going into his fourth 
season as head coach next fall, Deacon will still be looking to make those words come true.
The Gators haven’t won a 
national championship since 2001 and haven’t won an SEC championship since 2011.
The Gators will also look to 
grow as a team and improve on this year’s result. Gordon Neale and Jorge Garcia will enter their junior seasons, while Andy Zhang will be a 
sophomore.
All three golfers, as well 
as Tosti, will look to lead the 
team and continue its solid play from this past year, as 
well as fill the shoes of the 
departing Horsfield.
Florida will look back at this 
season as a learning experience 
and a growing pain.
While getting back on its feet 
after a tough loss is necessary, 
reflecting on what happened in the 2016-17 campaign will 
need to occur as well.
Only then will UF be able to 
achieve its goals and get back 
into the spotlight as national 
contender in college men’s 
golf.
@justinn_case1 
jahlum@alligator.org UF men’s golf: A champion, a regional berth and a disappointing finish
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti surveys the green during day one of the SunTrust Gator 
Invitational on Feb. 18 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel rests in the water during Florida's 183-117 win against T ennessee on Jan. 28, 2017, at the O'Connell Center.
talking about that?
Just because track isn’t nearly as 
popular doesn’t mean that what it does 
isn’t as important.
We put so much emphasis on football, 
basketball and baseball that we sometimes 
forget what makes UF athletics so great: its 
smaller sports.
Sometimes, the lower-tier teams can 
be just as, if not more, exciting than UF’s 
premier programs.
For those who don’t know what I’m talking about or are questioning what constitutes a smaller sport, I’m talking 
about the sports that receive little to no 
media attention outside of our reporters at the Alligator. 
I’m talking about teams like tennis, 
soccer, volleyball, lacrosse, swimming and diving, etc.
And with those sports come some 
incredible moments. 
Like Gators’ women’s tennis winning the 
National Indoor Championships after their lone freshman, Ingrid Neel, clinched the match. Or golfer Alejandro Tosti winning the SEC individual championship for the first time since 2009. Or swimmer Caeleb Dressel breaking an NCAA, American, U.S. 
Open and IU Natatorium in the 100-yard 
butterfly on Day 3 of the NCAAs, then breaking his own record in the 100-yard freestyle the next day.
In total, Florida has won 241 conference 
championships, 195 which have come from UF’s smaller sports, and 25 of the Gators’ 36 national championships have come from those sports as well.
And as UF students, we get to go see 
these teams play for free.
So why not take advantage?We get to see U.S. Olympians compete wearing the Orange and Blue for swimming and track.
We get to see some of the best college 
players in their respective sports competing at Donald R. Dizney Stadium for lacrosse, the Ring Tennis Complex for tennis and the 
O’Connell Center for volleyball.
Not too many schools can say the same.
So while you are buying your football 
season tickets or looking for a seat at the next men's basketball game, take some 
time to appreciate some of UF athletic’s 
finer programs.
COLUMN,  from pg. 13UF has won 241 conference championships and 36 national titleson the mound.
The Gators have a trio of reliable starters 
in Alex Faedo, Brady Singer and Jackson 
Kowar, as well as a closer in Michael Byrne who led the SEC East in saves this season 
with 13.
However, O’Sullivan hasn’t gotten much 
out of the rest of his young pitching staff.
Byrne and freshman setup man Garrett 
Milchin are the only two pitchers in 
Florida’s bullpen with an ERA below 3.80.
UF also has yet to find a reliable fourth 
starter, frequently going with a committee of relievers to pitch during midweek games in the regular season.
O’Sullivan acknowledges his team’s 
lack of depth on the mound has been an issue, but is confident Faedo, Singer and 
Kowar can shoulder the load in the SEC 
Tournament.
“Our three starters are as good anybody 
in the country, and that’s been the recipe for our success,” O’Sullivan said. “That’s how we’re winning… We are who we are 
with our young pitchers right now.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 13Austin clinched the victory for UF Byrne led SEC East with 13 saves
the first to go down. Kuhlman, who sat out 
in the Gators’ last match against Vandy in the SEC title game, proved to be no contest for Campbell as she quickly lost 6-4, 6-1.
Building off of Campbell’s win, the 
Commodores extended their lead to 2-1 as Christina Rosca fought it out against Ingrid Neel and defeated the freshman 7-5, 6-4. 
Because Georgia’s indoor facility only 
has four courts, the No. 5 and No. 6 position were forced to wait until two courts had cleared in order to start their matches. Once Austin and Keegan came in at five and six, respectively, things began to look up for 
Florida.In what was a battle of a match, Anna 
Danilina was the next Gator off the court 
with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 win over Kurtz.
Now tied at 2 all, Belinda Woolcock put 
Florida back in the lead with a 6-7, 6-2, 6-0 win over Sharma.
Then, after dominating the entire day, 
Austin provided the clinching match with a 6-2, 6-3 win over Georgina Sellyn. 
This is only the second time in their 
last seven meetings that Florida has beaten Vanderbilt. 
The Gators are set to play Stanford for 
the National Championship today at 5 p.m. 
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.orgWOMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 23, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University AvenueBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The Gators women’s golf team 
found itself within striking distance of 
the cutoff after Sunday’s second round of play at the NCAA Championships in Sugar Grove, Illinois.
Through 36 holes of the 54-hole 
contest, Florida was in 12th place, sitting three strokes back of the eight-team cutoff. But thanks to Monday’s 
performance, the Gators will live to ﬁ  ght another day. 
Florida secured their spot in match 
play with the help of the third-lowest team score of the afternoon at 4-over.
The best ﬁ  nish for the Gators 
under coach Emily Glaser came last year when her team ﬁ  nished 17th at the NCAA Championships. This will mark the ﬁ  rst time during Glaser’s tenure as head coach that the team has moved on to match play. 
Continuing her resurrection from 
a woeful ﬁ  rst round, senior Maria Torres proved she was worth the 
First-Team All-SEC selection, carding 
three birdies in her ﬁ  rst nine holes to cruise to an even-par ﬁ  nish. Torres ﬁ  nished the preliminary rounds with a score of 10-over to secure a tie for 17th place. 
Junior Taylor Tomlinson, 
sophomore Sam Wagner and senior Karolina Vlckova all had impressive days as well. Vlckova and Wagner both posted scores of 1-over, combining to drain three birdies. 
Tomlinson had two birdies herself 
and ﬁ  nished at 2-over for the day, giving her a ﬁ  nal score of 13-over and putting her in a tie for 24th overall. 
Match play begins today at 8 a.m. 
against Arizona State, which placed third through the preliminary rounds. 
Glaser said she was proud of her team, but knows that there’s more work to be done. 
“Match play is so much fun and 
our team is really excited to have this 
opportunity,” Glaser said in a release. 
“Arizona State is a great team with a lot of talent and depth. I think we match up well with them.”
@morganmcmufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org
 Gators overcome deﬁ  cit to advance to NCAA match playMEN’S TENNIS
Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Entering the season ranked No. 
11, the Florida men’s tennis team had high expectations for 2017.
However, the Gators also had 
big shoes to ﬁ  ll following key 
departures from the previous year.
Florida lost two seniors and 
important pieces of their 2016 
SEC Championship team in All-American Diego Hidalgo and Gordon Watson. 
In their ﬁ  nal season, the duo 
combined for a singles record of 34-11, causing a large gap to be left 
behind not only in production, but 
in leadership as well.
Florida found that new leader 
this season in senior captain Elliott Orkin. Orkin delivered in big spots for the Gators throughout the year.
While the senior struggled 
early on in the season, posting a 4-4 record at the No. 3 spot in the 
lineup, he was able to step up when 
his team needed him most.
After moving up to the No. 2 
spot, Orkin posted a 9-5 for the Gators, often competing against players ranked higher than him. His performance earned him 2017 First-Team All-SEC honors.
Florida also found a replacement 
for the vacant No.1 spot in the lineup left behind by Hidalgo: sophomore Alfredo Perez.
Perez was expected to have 
a good season, but his caliber of play reached such a high level, it thrusted him into the nation’s top 10 players and a First-Team All-SEC status.
The Havana, Cuba, native busted 
onto every team’s radar early in the season after defeating USC’s Logan Smith and UCLA’s Gage Brymer in 
two huge Florida victories. Smith 
and Brymer were ranked 28th and 11th at the time, respectively, and the wins vaulted Perez into the top 10. 
Two weeks later, Perez took 
down No. 5 Christian Sigsgaard of Texas and No. 4 Nuno Borges of Mississippi State to add to his 
repertoire of big victories, punching 
himself a spot in the NCAA Individual Championships as the country’s No. 8 player.
With Orkin as its captain and 
Perez in the No. 1 spot, Florida played one of the nation’s toughest schedules, experiencing an up and down season of tests and triumphs.
Along with their always-difﬁ  cult 
SEC schedule, the Gators played a February gauntlet that featured seven top-20 teams, four of which were ranked in the top-10 including 
then-No. 1 Virginia.  
After going 3-4 in February, 
Florida experienced two tough 
losses to start off March against Texas A&M and Florida State.
However, the Gators were able 
to bounce back, going 8-2 over the remainder of the season, only suffering losses to No. 24 Kentucky 
and No. 13 Georgia.
The postseason saw the Gators 
go to the semiﬁ  nals of the SEC 
Tournament and the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament, only to lose to familiar foes Georgia and Virginia.
And even though the Gators will 
lose Orkin and senior Maxx Lipman, they feature one of the nation’s top 
recruiting classes and retain plenty 
of upperclassmen leadership to make a strong 2018 campaign. 
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.org  UF men’s tennis: A passing of the torch
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Elliot Orkin prepares to hit a forehand during Florida’s 4-2 win 
against UCLA on Feb. 5, 2017, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
