We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorScooter safety
Local scooter shop pushes for helmet safety, pg. 4
Gainesville Regional Utilities
Gov. Rick Scott signs bill to potentially revoke city’s commis-
sions control of the utility, pg. 5UF softball’s season ends
The Gators went 58-10 in another record-setting year, pg. 14VOLUME 111 ISSUE 153 THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
HE POSED AS A 
COLOGNE SALESMAN, 
WITNESSES SAY.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After a nearly daylong search, 
police found and arrested a man 
for attempting to rape a young Gainesville woman inside her apartment after he forced his way 
through her front door Tuesday 
night.
During their investigation, police 
identiﬁ  ed Joshua Taylor, 34, as a suspect and arrested him at about 7:30 p.m. Wednesday night.
Police said Taylor attempted to 
open the woman’s door at Kensing-ton South Apartments, located at 3901 SW 20th Ave., at about 9:30 
p.m. Tuesday. The woman — who 
is in her 20s —  opened the door thinking it was her roommate.
Taylor then pushed his way in-
side and shut the door behind him as she tried to escape, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report. He forced her to the ﬂ  oor, grabbed her crotch and began ripping her 
clothes off in an attempt to rape her, 
according to the report. 
The woman fought back, 
screamed for help and was able to grab Taylor by his long dread-locks. After a few minutes of ﬁ  ght-ing with the woman, he got up and ran away, according to the report. The woman immediately locked the 
door and called police.
Taylor knocked on several doors 
in the neighborhood before the 
woman’s. A male witness told po-lice that Taylor knocked on his door and told him his name was “Jay” and that he was selling cologne, ac-cording to the report. 
As police spoke to witnesses in 
the neighborhood Wednesday, they picked up on a description of a sus-picious man who frequently came to the area to sell cologne to random people, according to the report. The description of this man matched the woman’s and other witnesses’ de-scription of Taylor. 
Police then pulled up an image 
of Taylor, and the woman and wit-nesses conﬁ  rmed the description, according to the report. 
Taylor was brought to the Ala-
chua County Jail on Wednesday night, where he awaits a Thursday morning court appearance. He faces charges of sexual assault and bur-glary. 
GPD Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said the 
woman has access to services from rape-victim advocates from the Ala-chua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center and will continue to have access during the investiga-tion.
An attempted rape by a stranger 
is a rare occurrence in Gainesville, 
Tobias said. Most of the sexual bat-
teries and rapes that GPD investi-gates involve date rapes, acquain-tance rapes or alcohol-assisted rapes.
“I cannot stress how importantly 
we take these investigations,” To-bias said. “Cases of sexual violence are the most invasive to a victim.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Gainesville man sexually assaults woman in her apartmentAlligator ﬁ  le photo
The Graduate Assistants United labor union and UF reached 
an agreement on graduate assistants’ health insurance plan, GatorGradCare, on May 8. GAU and UF must renew their three-year labor contract by late June or early July, said UF Chief Bargainer Bill Connellan.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs hired a 
new director of Black Affairs this week. 
Carl Simien will take the 
place of Vee Byrd, the former di-
rector, and will start working at 
UF on July 24.
After Byrd resigned in Febru-
ary, MCDA searched for some-
one to ﬁ  ll the director position, according to Alligator archives. 
Bryd’s resignation was part 
of a spree of resignations that 
took place in MCDA in February. 
Will Atkins, the executive director of MCDA, 
said although he was not a part of MCDA during the time of these resignations, he is really working toward bringing the whole department together and taking a new direction. 
“I am focused on new energy for MCDA,” At-
kins said. “We’re deﬁ  nitely doing a lot more and making sure (the new directors) have the resourc-es and tools they need to succeed once they get here.”
He said applications for the position opened in 
mid-spring, and the ﬁ  nal candidates were chosen by a search committee comprised of students, am-
bassadors, faculty and staff. 
Atkins said in an on-campus interview, Simien 
beat out two other candidates because of his pro-
fessionalism and positivity. Atkins said this, along with Simien’s experience, made him a great ﬁ  t for Black Affairs. 
“We are super excited to have him join the 
MCDA team,” Atkins said. 
Simien will be joining UF from Western Illinois 
University. He could not be immediately reached for comment.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgNew director of 
UF’s Black Aﬀ  airs
Simien
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After more than ﬁ  ve months of negotiations, the Graduate 
Assistants United and UF reached an agreement on health 
care.
The bargaining unit of GAU, a 4,000-member labor union 
representing UF’s graduate assistants, and UF came to a ten-tative agreement on the GatorGradCare health insurance plan May 8, said GAU spokesperson Charles Shields. 
Every three years, GAU and UF renew their labor contract, 
which consists of 26 articles, said Shields, a UF political sci-
ence doctoral candidate. 
“If I may paraphrase a certain political ﬁ  gure, ‘Nobody 
knew (health care) could be so complicated,’” he said. “We 
knew.”
Shields, 30, said the main victory GAU achieved was a 
20-percent cut in costs for dependent premiums, or the cost of health insurance for a graduate assistant’s spouse and/or children. He said the disappointment in the agreement was the $10 monthly premium graduate assistants will pay start-
ing August 2018. 
“The big takeaway for us here is that we’ve secured Gator-
GradCare for the next three years,” Shields said.
Bill Connellan, UF’s chief bargainer, said he feels the two 
parties reached a solid agreement on health care given rising 
costs. 
“I think the union handled it well,” Connellan said.As of Monday, Shields said article 10 of 26 was being ne-
gotiated. UF and GAU have until June 30 to reach tentative agreements on all 26 articles before the full contract can be 
voted on through a referendum in July. 
Connellan said he’s conﬁ  dent they will meet the deadline.
“We’ll either ﬁ  nish it by the end of June — which I hope 
— or if not then, early July, and that would not be a prob-lem,” he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org GAU, UF reach health care agreement, 
three-year contract for GatorGradCare
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonHIGH  79° LOW  66°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Museum Nights: Fun in Focus
Explore the photographs and 
themes in the new exhibition, “The Same But Different,” through hands-on activities, 
tours and performances today 
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Harn Museum of Art. The event is free and open to the public. 
UF's School of Music's 2017 
International Piano Festival
The 10th International Piano 
Festival assembles young pianists for lessons and mas-
ter classes with piano teach-ers from North America and across the globe. The festival will have events that are free and open to the public in the Music Building, Room 101, on Saturday starting at 3:30 p.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 111 ISSUE 153
1
1312111098765432The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, July 7. Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, July 10 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE. Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator ofﬁ  ces in a meeting open to the public on July 27 at 10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Courtesy to the Alligator
Randy Singer, a 31-year-old UF Ph.D. student, 
works with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to research rare deep-sea ﬁ  sh through its Okeanos Explorer project. Singer has been working with the NOAA since 2013. 
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF Ph.D. student has been 
working with the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administra-tion to conduct deep-sea research. 
Randy Singer, 31, has been in-
volved with the NOAA since 2013 and is now a shore-based scientist for their Okeanos Explorer proj-ect. 
The Okeanos Explorer project 
provides a livestream for view-
ers to watch remote-operated ve-
hicles scan the deep oceanic ﬂ  oor, Singer said. 
“The coolest part is it’s a really 
good intersection for people who are doing science to interact with the public and share in an experi-ence together,” he said.
Singer initially got involved 
with the NOAA after taking a re-search cruise to research squid. 
He said the beneﬁ  ts from the Okeanos Explorer project have been limitless, but the best part has been being able to interact with people in real time to discuss his research.  
As a shore-based scientist, 
Singer is using the data from the 
exploration to conduct research 
and write publications. 
Because the data is free to the 
public, Singer said many people will have the opportunity to in-teract with and observe profes-sionals across the nation who are currently conducting extensive re-search on the deep sea. 
“On a regular basis, people 
are all watching together and see-ing things that nobody on planet Earth has ever seen before,” Singer said. “Everybody can dis-cover the ocean together, its really cool.” 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUF Ph.D. student uses ground-breaking 
technology for deep-sea research
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a homeless man for shooting another man 
in the groin near downtown Gainesville early Tuesday morn-
ing.
After responding to the sound of nearby gunshots on 
South Main Street at about 11:30 p.m. Monday, ofﬁ  cers found 
James Everett Lee of Archer shot in the groin and laying on 
the ground at the entrance of Haisley Lynch Dog Park, lo-cated at 414-424 S. Main St., across the street from the St. Francis House homeless shelter, wrote Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email.
Witnesses told police the shooter was 23-year-old Ishmael 
Burgos, who had driven away in a black vehicle. Witnesses also told police that Lee and Burgos had gotten in a physical ﬁ  ght the night before, Tobias said.
When police found Burgos walking along a trail in the 300 
block of SE Williston Road, Tobias said he admitted to shoot-ing Lee. Burgos shot Lee to “scare him,” Tobias said.
According to the report, Burgos also told police that the 
night before, Lee had attacked him with a knife. Tobias said Lee, whose groin injury was not fatal, had surgery at UF Health Shands Hospital on Tuesday morning.
As of Wednesday evening, Burgos remains in the Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $75,000 bond. He faces a charge of 
aggravated battery using a deadly weapon.Archer man shot 
in the groin4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nick McMillen has become a better 
person by being a counselor for the Alach-
ua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis 
Center, or at least his wife thinks so. 
McMillen, who is one of the 12 coun-
selors currently at the center, said his time volunteering has made a positive impact 
on his life.
“I’ve taken all of the information, and 
I’ve applied it to my job and everything in my life,” he said.
“How we operate on the phone has 
helped me with my relationship with my 
wife and my daughter.”
The center, located at 218 SE 24th St., 
is currently looking for more counselors like McMillen because it’s experiencing 
a shortage with students leaving for the 
summer, said Jessie Lazarchik, the sexual assault program manager. 
Lazarchik said more than counseling 
experience, the center is looking for peo-ple who won’t judge those who call in. 
“I look for people who have some level 
of passion for survivors of sexual vio-
lence,” she said. “I want to see that people 
are really invested in the cause.”
The hiring process for the center starts 
with potential counselors ﬁ  lling out an 
application on the center’s website. Then 
members at the center will schedule a one-on-one meeting with the applicant to see if their views align with the center’s. 
If chosen, the applicant goes through 
a free nine-week course and level-two 
background check before they can begin 
volunteering. 
“We will take one (volunteer), we’ll 
take 10,” Lazarchik said. “Whoever is able 
and willing to help.”
McMillen said when he ﬁ  rst learned 
about the program, he jumped into the 
deep end.
“People in my life, in the past, have 
been victims of the assault,” he said. “I 
know that when these situations came up, 
I didn’t know what to do.”
Since he ﬁ  rst started working for the 
center, McMillen said he feels like there’s a whole new world of information.
He said counselors often help callers 
by providing them with an understanding person to talk to and provide options for 
their situations.
“If they’re in a position of crisis, we get 
them into a place where they’re in a good mindset,” he said. “We then see where 
they want to go from there.”
McMillen said he plans to continue vol-
unteering in the future.
“I think being able to feel that you 
have something to offer people that are in 
a really, really low point in their life is re-warding,” he said. The Alachua County Victim 
Services seeks more counselors 
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
After founding New Scooters 4 Less in 
2004, Collin Austin realized that most of his 
customers weren’t wearing helmets.
Since NS4L’s beginning, its goal has always 
been to put more helmets on heads, Austin 
said. With 80 percent of Austin’s student cli-
entele purchasing helmets, the owner said he originally didn’t think there was a problem. 
“When you really go around Gainesville, 
and you really go around the University of Florida, you realize not many people are wearing them,” he said. 
In an attempt to prevent future injury, Aus-
tin said NS4L has taken a pledge: It will give 
away a free helmet with every new scooter 
purchase through the end of August. As it ap-proaches its busiest season, the company ex-pects to sell about 400 scooters to new and returning students.
With that prediction, NS4L stands to lose 
$30,000 in helmet sales, Austin said. But to him, it’s worth it.
“I started this company because I wanted 
to help students get to and from class at their convenience,” Austin said. “I never got into business to see somebody get killed on a scooter.”
Austin said he thinks most students only 
buy the helmet to please their parents and be-lieve wearing helmets is uncool. Since there are currently no laws requiring people to wear helmets on scooters, unlike on bicycles, there is no way to make sure riders are being safe, and thus they can easily opt out of the safety precaution.
The company will also have each custom-
er sign a pledge promising they will wear a helmet. In doing so, Austin said he hopes to change the perception surrounding helmets.
“I know that if I can get the majority of 
scooter riders wearing helmets, other people will look at it and say, ‘They’re wearing a hel-met, and it’s no big deal to wear one,’” Austin said. 
NS4L’s campaign video has received more 
than 130 shares on Facebook, including from UF Public Safety and Gainesville Police. 
“(This pledge) is a huge step in the right 
direction,” Austin said. “I think you’re going to see a lot more helmets on heads as we con-tinue to push this movement.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgNew Scooters 4 Less 
pushes helmet movement
SCOOTER SAFETY TIPS
• Wear a helmet at all times
• Use your turn signal
• Check your mirror and brakes
• Wear closed-toe shoes
• Be cautious of weather, especially rain
• Wear bright colorsTHURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By David Street
Alligator Staff Writer
In light of recent global terrorist 
attacks, leaders of different faiths 
gathered at Gainesville’s City Hall on 
Tuesday to deliver a message.
“Our hearts go out in sympathy 
to the many innocent victims of hate crimes in London and Manchester, 
England; Portland, Oregon; Minya 
and Alexandria, Egypt; Kabul, Af-
ghanistan; Baghdad, Iraq; and Or-lando, Florida,” retired UF professor 
Saeed Khan told about 20 people on 
the steps of the city hall. 
In addition to Khan, who’s a 
Muslim, members of the Christian and Jewish faith all delivered one 
common message — one of unity, 
acceptance and tolerance.
Mayor Lauren Poe explained that 
Gainesville is a welcoming place for anybody, noting the city’s interna-
tional culture. Poe said it was impor-
tant for leaders of faith to join with leaders of government in Alachua County to reinforce the idea that no 
matter what religion people practice, 
they’ll be accepted.
“We just want to drive home the 
point that every single human being has equal value, and we need to do our best to reach out to every person 
regardless of their circumstances, 
regardless of where they came from or how long they’ve been here,” Poe said.
Khan, who used to be a profes-
sor in UF’s Department of Pathology, Immunology and Laboratory Medi-cine, said he thinks many Muslims in the community fear that others as-sociate their religion with terrorism. 
If you research Muslim reactions to 
recent terrorist attacks, Khan said you’ll notice most Muslim leaders 
condemn the acts.
One of the best ways to bring 
awareness to this stereotype is for community members of all faiths to 
communicate, Khan said. For exam-
ple, last month, the United Church 
of Gainesville, located at 1624 NW 
Fifth Ave., called on Khan to teach 
members of the church more about 
the Islamic faith.
“I don’t want the people to get 
the impression of Islam from what they read in the paper,” Khan said. “I want them to look at me.”
@dstreet177
dstreet@alligator.orgReligious leaders unify 
at steps of City HallGOV . RICK SCOTT SIGNED 
BILL TO REVOKE CITY 
COMMISSION’S POWER.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Gainesville voters hit the 
ballot boxes November 2018, they 
will be deciding on who makes ﬁ  nal decisions for their utility company.
Gov. Rick Scott signed a bill 
Tuesday that calls for a 2018 ref-erendum vote on whether an inde-pendent board or the City Commis-
sion governs Gainesville Regional 
Utilities.
Currently, Gainesville’s seven-
person commission makes the ﬁ  nal 
calls on GRU.
“That’s the structure that’s been 
in place since the beginning of time 
for GRU,” At-Large Commissioner Helen Warren said.
Warren said Scott’s decision 
may have come, in part, from pub-lic unrest over the City Commis-sion’s troubles with the GRU’s Util-ity Advisory Board, an independent 
governing body that makes recom-
mendations to the commission re-
garding utility decisions.
Warren said she feels conﬁ  dent 
that the current system works best.
“If people don’t like the deci-sions of the city commissioners re-lated to the utility company ... they vote them out,” Warren said.
Scott initially vetoed a similar 
bill in 2016 because of a clause that would have given members of the independent board an annual sal-ary of $18,000, Warren said. When the bill came back to him this year, she said he likely had fewer reasons to deny it and caved to Republican partisanship in supporting it.
“I think he ﬁ  nally ﬂ  ipped over to 
the red party line,” she said.
Warren said she was unsure of 
whether Scott’s decision would im-pact the buyout.
Scott’s ofﬁ  ce could not be imme-
diately reached for comment.
For District-IV Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos, Scott’s deci-sion was purely partisan.
“Scott gave in to the special in-
terests and Tallahassee Republicans that are pushing this takeover of our community owned utility,” Hayes-Santos wrote in an email.
Hayes-Santos said he is con-
cerned about Scott’s decision impacting the city’s buyout of Gainesville Renewable Energy Center, a privately owned biomass 
plant.
The commission has been mov-
ing forward in recent months to purchase GREC so it may exit a 
multibillion-dollar contract with the plant and reduce electric bills for GRU customers by about 10 percent. If the contract holds, GRU would wind up paying GREC $2.1 billion over the next 27 years, GRU spokesperson Lauren Munsey said.
Mayor Lauren Poe said nego-
tiations are “nearing the halfway point,” and the city is waiting to hear back from GREC on its asset purchase agreement, which details 
the city’s $750 million buyout offer 
it sent May 10.
Poe said GRU requests assistance 
in energy production from GREC 
on an as-needed basis and that the 
plant has been a reliable partner.
The buyout is an opportunity for 
the city to have more direct control 
over its energy use and direction in 
terms of climate change, he said.
“We’ve had a lot of community 
members demand immediate action 
due to the president’s desire to pull out of the Paris accords,” Poe said.
But Hayes-Santos now wor-
ries Scott’s decision may weaken the chances of an agreement going through.
“(The bill) will increase the cost 
of a GREC purchase and result in 
higher utility rates for GRU custom-
ers,” he said.Control of GRU subject to changeThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Should police track 
your phone without 
a warrant?
Yesterday, the U.S. Supreme Court announced it will 
answer that question in an upcoming term, ultimately deciding whether law enforcement authorities should be required to get a warrant before they can track your location through your cellphone records. 
Police can currently track your location using phone records 
with a law that was passed 13 years before the first BlackBerry was released. 
The case comes to the justices through an appeal made by 
Timothy Carpenter, who was convicted for a series of armed robberies in Michigan and Ohio. Police were able to find Car-penter by looking into his past cellphone records without a war-rant, which he claims to be a violation of his Fourth Amend-ment right against unreasonable search and seizure.
He’s right.In a world where our smartphones are becoming a treasure 
trove of information about our personal lives, police should not be able to look into our digital history without a warrant. 
There must be a process preventing such abuse of power 
from happening. Abuse such as former National Security Agen-cy employees spying on their ex-girlfriends and husbands — without a warrant, of course. 
As we outsource more of ourselves to our phones and onto 
the web, we should be fighting for more privacy protections, not less. 
Although the ability to track suspects’ locations is a valuable 
tool for the police, it needs to be weighed against the right of privacy for the innocent people that will undoubtedly be sur-veilled without their knowing. Ask people how they feel about their digital privacy and most will talk about it as if zero privacy is a forgone conclusion. Many will also say they have nothing to hide, but that’s a topic for another time. 
A provision of the Stored Communications Act in 1986 says 
the government doesn’t need to prove probable cause to ob-tain customer records from businesses like telecommunication companies — all it needs is “reasonable grounds” and proof the records are “relevant and material to the investigation.”
There is no way that congress could’ve imagined being able 
to find the locations of people by using signals that ping to and from cellphones back in 1986. The first commercially avail-able cellphone (or commercially available brick) didn’t become available until 1983. 
Police should not be able to retrieve text message logs (en-
crypted messaging services such as iMessage and WhatsApp can’t be obtained by police) whenever they please. They shouldn’t be able access to emails between two people with-out a warrant, either. But that’s a precedent the Supreme Court must set going forward. 
This isn’t the highest court’s first rodeo when it comes to 
whether the police can track and spy on their suspects using to-day’s technology. Back in 2012, it ruled that police need to have a warrant in order to place a GPS tracking device on suspects’ vehicles. More recently, it decided that police may not search a suspect’s phone without a warrant.
We should hope the Supreme Court decides in favor of our 
privacy. If it doesn’t, it may be a bad sign of where things are headed for those of us who value freedom from surveillance. Last week I wrote about my renting 
experience with Watson Realty Corp. In my column, there were some misrepresented facts: after Sharon Giddens left the company on good terms 
— for she was not fired, nor did she quit — one of my roommates stayed in contact with another person from Watson Realty. I, however, was left in the dark for the period of three months. This was not Watson Realty’s fault. Though our relationship was not ideal, Watson Realty does not deserve the disservice of falsity. My sincerest apologies.
Anyway, I have been known to watch things branded 
as “liberal comedy” like “The Daily Show,” previously “The Colbert Report” and now “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” “Last Week Tonight,” etc. I watch these shows because I think the hosts are funny, witty, not overly-caustic, and in general, they shed light on — typically — heavier and darker topics.
And of course, I laugh at the ridiculous things that 
some conservative people say or the way these comedians mock someone like President Donald Trump, but at 
times, I find that people may take what these comedians 
say too much to heart. I’m not talking sensitivity from conservatives, but belittling from liberals — and vice versa in the case of conservative political comedy. Specifically, I’m talking about the mindset that comes from laughing at someone and being aware of the line you may cross if you watch too much of these kinds of shows.
When I watched too much of this kind of comedy, I 
ran into the ease of generalization.
Since Trump would say something stupid about China 
creating climate change or he would be rude in general, I would then think that anyone who supported Trump tended to be the same way. The more radical things Trump would say and the more his supporters would rally, the more I would think less of his supporters. This thought trend of mine continued and for a moment before I checked myself, I was thinking that all his supporters were racist, xenophobic, stupid and other nasty things. These are characteristics that I would now not brand someone so carelessly.
This was also a trend I saw by the end of the 
campaign after the results were in. However, what I also saw was the myopia of so many people. Most, at least in my bubble, were negligent to consider how Trump voters (not radical, die-hard supporters) would have felt if they lost. A certain skill we all must have: 
empathy.
What I’m finally getting at is how we address the 
huge divide we have in our country right now. In recent events because of the Paris climate agreement, how we, as educated individuals, may address certain adversarial individuals like climate change deniers — to name one issue. Of course, times are changing and more people are accepting this idea, but there are still many in disbelief of the effects of climate change, and the way I see people address these deniers is unsettling.
From what I’ve seen, the way to tackle climate change 
deniers — and many other issues for that matter — has been to unceasingly lecture deniers with facts. This does not work. Yes, I understand the weird time we’re in where people can seemingly choose which facts they want to believe and how ridiculous that is, but if we desire change, we need a new approach. I don’t have the answers, but maybe if we listened to one another before we set out to lecture someone, maybe, just maybe, that person might listen to us.
Empathy is the tool of change. We must be aware of 
ourselves and others. Not everyone cares as much as you do. Not everyone knows as much as you may know, but they may be willing to listen to you if you listen to them first — and on the bright side, you might learn some funny conspiracy theories about climate change.  
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
How to tackle the current tactics of change
James
Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Netﬂ  ix’s orginial series
Two original series have been canceled, pg. 8Must-watch summer television: 
‘The Handmaid’s T ale’ on Hulu, pg. 8 THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
If you’re looking for a way to spend those 
long summer days, the Hippodrome State The-
atre is hosting limited movie screenings to draw 
in audiences throughout the summer.  
Jason Potak, the cinema director at the Hip-
podrome, said although ﬁ  lm distributors ap-
proach the Hippodrome with their ﬁ  lms, a lot 
of the selection process is personally choosing 
ﬁ  lms he’s excited to see. 
“What it comes to, for me, is looking at di-
rectors that I have some history with — I’ve en-joyed their ﬁ  lms, and I’m excited for their next ﬁ  lm,” he said. 
The Hippodrome will be showing “Saving 
Banksy” on Monday and Tuesday in partnership with the Thomas Center Galleries exhibition “Uncontainable.” 
The exhibition is centered around 20th cen-
tury street art, the diffusion of grafﬁ  ti art and features several artists including Cuban muralist Juan Travieso. 
“Saving Banksy,” which was released in Jan-
uary, follows the rise in notoriety of grafﬁ  ti art-ist Banksy and the struggles of being acknowl-edged in the art world.
Following the Tuesday screening, audience 
members will have the opportunity to partake in a Q&A session with the ﬁ  lm’s executive pro-
ducer, Brian Greif.
Potak said the Hippodrome’s audience is 
willing to see the ﬁ  lms they have selected not 
only because of their entertainment value, but also because of the value of the ﬁ  lms’ plots. 
“Our audience, basically, tends to be pretty 
open and receptive to what we’re showing,” Po-tak said. “There’s no other places to see ﬁ  lms like that.”
“Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” will also 
be shown at the Hippodrome for a limited screening June 24. Potak said he chose the ﬁ  lm, which was originally released in 1966, not only based on how entertaining it is, but how inﬂ  u-
ential the premise is.
“For anyone in any age demographic, it’s a 
great ﬁ  lm to see,” Potak said. “Anyone could 
walk away and feel impacted by it.”
Potak said the Hippodrome is different from 
other movie-watching venues in Gainesville be-
cause of the welcoming atmosphere. 
“It’s an independent cinema,” Potak said. 
“We are able to do a lot and do it in a way that’s 
personal. It’s not going to a giant theater and 
seeing ‘Wonder Woman’ or ‘Baby Driver’ — it’s 
more intimate than that.”
The Hippodrome is currently showing “Your 
Name” and “Colossal,” along with other ﬁ  lms, including “Graduation,” “I, Daniel Blake” and 
“It Comes At Night,” premiering at the theater 
throughout June.
For more information about tickets and show 
times, visit thehipp.org/cinema.Hippodrome to premiere movies throughout summer
FILMS
Courtesty to the Alligator
Everything from “Graduation” to the eerie “It Comes At Night” will be available for viewing at the Hippodrome  
State Theatre throughout the summer. 
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer 
In 2016, Fox News and Variety reported that Netflix would 
almost double the number of original series it would produce 
the following year, many of which would be unscripted. The 
company’s goal, according to Netflix Chief Financial Officer 
David Wells, is to create original content that will make up 50 percent of all the shows, movies and comedy specials Netflix offers.
As Netflix is expanding its repertoire and adding new 
seasons to hits like “House of Cards” and “Stranger Things,” it is also issuing pink slips. The company announced that it 
would end Baz Luhrmann’s “The Get Down,” a music-driven 
introduction to the world of hip-hop, shortly after the release of part two of the first season. Most recently, “Sense8,” a complicated sci-fi thriller, is on the chopping block. 
This brings Netflix’s total rejections to four, which also 
includes production for further seasons of “Bloodline” and “Marco Polo.”  
While reviews favored part one of the first season of “The 
Get Down,” part two came as a disappointment, and the 
cancellation came as no surprise to critics. On social media, 
however, it became evident that the show had grown a large following, and the hashtag “#RenewTheGetDown” received thousands of shares from disheartened fans. 
“Sense8” was a different story, one most TV fans have 
become familiar with. Its first season garnered lukewarm reviews, but the second installment kicked the show into high gear. It seems just as “Sense8” was earning positive attention and grabbing fans, the two-part series was 
subjected to TV purgatory. 
Another hashtag, “#RenewSense8,” and multiple petitions 
to get the show back on Netflix followed the announcement. 
This begs the question: How many TV shows have 
executives canceled prematurely, not allowing characters Netﬂ  ix cancels ‘The 
Get Down,’ ‘Sense8’ 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer 
Books are like messages in bot-
tles. They traverse choppy terrains 
to reach us, bouncing along time 
and space, but eventually, through 
almost no action of our own, they end up right in front of us, in one form or another. It is up to us to take 
the crumpled message, smooth it out 
and listen.
“The Handmaid’s Tale” is a book 
of such importance. Written by Mar-garet Atwood in 1985, this dysto-
pian, speculative novel is about a 
world where fertility is considered a national resource, and women are subjugated by a religious regime, 
which has overthrown the U.S. gov-
ernment.  
The narrator and protagonist, 
named Offred, is a handmaid, or as she calls herself, a “two-legged 
womb.” Her title is a slave name 
that combines the word “of” with her owner or commander’s name, which is Fred in the book. It is im-
plied in the text that her real name 
is June, although whether this is her true identity is up to the reader to be-lieve. In this dystopian world, fertile women are commodities as human 
reproduction is in jeopardy. The 
book, narrated by Offred, could be interpreted as a tale of resiliency or simply as a scary story too appropri-ate for its time. 
After premiering on Hulu in April, 
the television adaptation of “The 
Handmaid’s Tale” exempliﬁ  ed the 
contemporary political and social ties that the original story has. 
The show pays excellent homage 
to the book, although there are a few differences worth noting. For one, the show places people of color in roles where the book does not. For example, Offred’s husband, Luke, is 
played by O. T. Fagbenle, and her 
best friend Moira, who is a lesbian or “gender traitor” as they are called in the book, is played by Samira Wiley, 
who is also in the TV show “Orange 
Is the New Black.” 
Some have hailed this change as a 
weak plot line, which I would agree with. To distinguish a character with 
a deﬁ  ning quality, such as race, begs 
the adaptor to address the changes and show how they impact the sto-ryline. Racebending can only add to 
the depth the characters exhibit on-
screen, but television critic for The New Yorker Emily Nussbaum called this “well-meaning” plot line one that did more to “muddy the mes-
sage.”
The way Offred is portrayed is 
another divergence the adaptation 
takes on. The show holds much of 
the wit and darkness that Atwood 
incorporated into the text. It is only ﬁ  tting, however, that Offred acts a little different in the adaptation than in the book as plot twists and inspir-ing actions only help a story told 
through the medium of television. 
In the book, Offred is cerebral, com-forting herself with dark humor and eventually sex — on her own terms. 
These things are true of Offred in the 
show as well, but there is an attitude shift in her character that the book never reveals. 
In the show, Offred, instead of 
simply surviving, strives to quite literally f--- the patriarchy. She rep-resents an inspiring legend in the adaptation rather than simply an 
observer in the book. Her one-liners 
can still be caught, however, by the expectant ear of someone who is fa-miliar with the text.
Plot lines like these are what set 
the television adaptation apart from the original work. But take note: One is not better than the other. Al-though they recount the same mes-
sage, where the adaptation takes 
away from the story it also adds to it. 
There are numerous reasons 
why you should watch “The Hand-maid’s Tale.” For one, the overarch-
ing theme, some might argue, is 
more relevant today than when the book was published some 30 years ago. For another reason, the show is 
beautifully shot, and the actors are 
directed so their dialogue seems real and scarily authentic.A dose of reality in Hulu’s new 
series ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’
SEE NETFLIX,  PAGE 9THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HIPPODROME THEATRE
CALL NOW! 352.375.44 77 OR VISIT THEHIPP.ORG
25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GAINESVILLE
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
10% oﬀ for
Alumni
352-373-6500
2435 SW 13th St.
and storylines to see their true potential? 
Cult classics including “Freaks and 
Geeks” and “Twin Peaks” saw their time 
in the spotlight only after the shows 
appeared on streaming networks years after their end. As a result, the latter saw a reboot in May. 
Is money making it difficult to give new 
TV shows enough time to hit their marks, while the same reason causes networks to drag programs like “Grey’s Anatomy” past their prime?On Tuesday, Z100’s Elvis 
Duran and the Morning Show spoke during a break about 
their disappointment with the 
cancellation. Duran himself mentioned that while the first season was, “OK, the second season was fantastic,” and the 
show seemed to be gearing up 
for success in the future.
Co-host Bethany Watson said, “Some 
shows need a little time to get their 
footing, and a lot of times they don’t get 
the chance to get their footing before they’re canceled.” Duran said “Sense8 is one of 
those shows people should’ve watched, but they didn’t. 
He said that’s why Netflix is 
taking it away.
In 2015, Hypable wrote that 
“Sense8” set a new standard for diversity on TV while The 
Washington Post called it “a 
progressive dream.” This year, 
that dream is dead. 
Some have wondered with a critical 
eye why these two shows, featuring diverse casts and stories, are the ones to be canceled rather than other ill-received Netflix shows. On the other hand, “Orange Is the New Black,” featuring a very diverse and mostly female cast, is returning for its 
fifth season Friday. 
There is always hope for a second 
chance at TV success, however. After all, 
less than a year after “American Idol” was canceled, ABC executives are scheduling 
to revive the show that has not yet settled 
into its grave. And ironically, Netflix is particularly notorious for bringing back popularly missed shows of this kind.
NETFLIX,  from pg. 8Netlix has canceled a total of four of its original shows10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
7750 W Newberry Rd
352.727.4619House Margaritas 
and Draft Beers 
2 for 1
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer 
Whether you are waiting to 
catch a ﬂ  ight, sitting by the pool 
or waiting for a Gainesville thun-derstorm to pass, reading a book is a great way to pass the time. Here are a few books you should pick up the next time you ﬁ  nd yourself aimlessly scrolling through Ama-zon (or, hopefully, at an actual 
bookstore).
“One More Thing: Stories and 
Other Stories” by B. J. Novak
For those of you who are fans of 
the TV series “The Ofﬁ  ce,” you’re familiar with author B.J. Novak as 
the undedicated intern Ryan How-
ard. Novak published “One More Thing: Stories and Other Stories” in 2014, which contains 65 short stories of varied length and topic — from romance to that cute girl you spotted from across the room to road rage.
This collection of short stories is 
perfect for the reader who doesn’t enjoy sitting down and reading an entire novel from start to ﬁ  n-ish. Why bother getting worked up over a plot line and becoming attached to characters when your main goal is to simply relax?
Throughout my time of owning 
and reading the book, I often ﬁ  nd myself ﬂ  icking through the pages and stumbling upon whatever story title catches my eye ﬁ  rst. The book, and all the stories within it, is a great collection of ﬁ  ction pieces that should deﬁ  nitely be on your summer reading list.“The Girls” by Emma ClineIf you’re looking for a novel 
that will keep you on your toes, crack open “The Girls.” Published in 2016, this ﬁ  ctional thriller is Emma Cline’s debut novel.
This novel gives an exciting an-
gle to the thriller with a majority of the main characters being women.
The story follows the protago-
nist, Evie, during two time periods — the present day and the ‘60s. Present-day Evie is staying at the vacation home of an old friend when she crosses paths with a dys-functional young couple who force her to reminisce about her past.
When the novel transitions to 
ﬂ  ashbacks, readers ﬁ  nd out that Evie spent the ‘60s in a cult after being drawn into the group by its charismatic leader (who sounds a lot like Charles Manson). The book follows these ﬂ  ashbacks, revealing the events leading up to Evie join-ing the cult and all the turmoil that succeeded it.
“Of Mice and Men” by John 
Steinbeck
I know what you’re thinking. 
“Of Mice and Men,” among many other classic works of ﬁ  ction, was stained by copious book reports and poorly constructed project posters. However, becoming re-acquainted with these novels fol-lowing a lackluster ﬁ  rst impression is a solid choice for your summer reading list.
The story, which is set during 
the Great Depression, chronicles the adventures of migrant farm workers George Milton and Lennie Small. Despite being down on their luck, George and Lennie spend their evenings dreaming about their aspirations of acquiring their own land — right down to the al-falfa for the rabbits.
However, with big dreams 
come big challenges. While George dreams of being independent from those he has worked for through-out his life, Lennie merely dreams of being independent with George and ﬁ  nds himself easily ﬁ  xated on soft things.
Although this novel has graced 
many high-school summer read-ing lists, reading classic Ameri-can novels with newfound ap-preciation — whether it’s F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “The Great Gatsby” or Harper Lee’s “To Kill a Mocking-bird” — is a great way to pass time this summer.
Lovely literature: books you should pick up over summerBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
3BR/2.5BA new upscale condo in Haile 
Plantation Market Square. Modern finishes throughout: custom cabinetry, granite coun-tertops, stainless steel appliances, wood floors in open living area, tile bathrooms. On bus route, walking distance to Publix, restaurants, shopping, tennis courts, and more. Two units available. Each unit is ap-prox. 1450 sq/ft. Private balcony avail with one unit. $1875/month for each unit. Avail July, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.      6-27-17-5-2
3BR/3BA Beautiful Home with Vaulted 
Ceilings, Laminate Wood Floors. Located Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hospital, and VA Medical Centers. Screen Porch, 2 Car Garage, Fenced Yard, Energy Efficient. W/D, Lawn Main, and Pest Control all Included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Aug. $1875/month. Contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.    6-27-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
REPLACEMENT WINDOWS FROM $199
ENERGY STAR RATED,
Double LOW-E Hurricane Strength
Manufacturer-trained InstallersBBB+ Rated, Lifetime WarrantyCredit Cards Accepted,Veterans/Senior DiscountsCall Rich 866-272- 7533      6-8-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-
3901    6-13-17-8-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
This newspaper assumes no re-sponsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through adver-tising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Designated drivers are the greatestVery fast paced law office in search of a 
paralegal. Must have a college degree. Well developed organizational, communication, and analytical skills required. Must have ex-cellent computer, verbal and written skills. Employee insurance is provided by employ-er. Paid holidays and vacation time is also provided by the employer. Email resume to PCD@nabjr.com.     6-8-17-4-14
CASHIER NEEDEDExperienced, dependable, reliable. References needed. Backgound check & drug test required. Foodmax Foodstore, 404 S Main St, 32601.   6-27-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      6-27-17-4-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 Sting, essentially
5 Wingding
9 Word often
improperly
punctuated
12 Small stream
13 Satellite radio
giant
15 “__ lied”16 Jackie Robinson
Stadium sch.
team
17 60-Across’ noble
status
19 “Bother someone
else!”
20 Footnote term21 Collagist’s
supply
22 Musical
impediment
24 60-Across’ home
26 Well-suited
27 “O god of battles!
__ my soldiers’
hearts”: Henry V
28 Be obstreperous31 White House
section
34 Bunch36 See 42-Down
37 Bringers of great
relief
40 Spanish pronoun
41 ESPN’s
Hershiser
43 Johnny who was
the last pitcher to
face Babe Ruth
44 Catcher on the
ranch
46 Thinks
48 Racket49 60-Across’
beloved
52 “Turn up the
thermostat!”
56 Hunter on high57 Wolverine, for
one
59 Hipbone prefix60 Classic character
whose exploitsinspired thephrase in thispuzzle’s circles
62 Some annexes63 Santana’s “__
Como Va”
64 Hurries65 Khartoum
waterway
66 Sautéing sound67 Top 500?68 Hole startersDOWN
1 Many a charitable
organization
2 “The Addams
Family” film
actress
3 Macabre fiction
middle name
4 Almost all of Tibet5 Tight spot6 Disney mermaid7 Summation
symbol in math
8 “Come again?”9 Like some
triangles
10 Ineffective11 Record half
13 Part of a Girl
Scout uniform
14 Mar. honoree
18 Playtex sister
brand
23 They run on cells25 Catholic title:
Abbr.
28 Fuss
29 Pants with
texture
30 Natural
boundaries
31 One of two states
formed during the
U.S. Civil War
32 Sundial marking33 Payment
beginning?
35 Try to win
38 Gp. with common
interests
39 Long, as odds
42 With 36-Across,
French title of aRimsky-Korsakovopera thattranslates to “TheGolden Rooster”
45 __ history47 Without48 Eats well49 Extinct birds50 Half a 1999 gas
merger
51 In __: sullen53 Stan’s partner
54 De Gaulle’s
birthplace
55 Prescription
indications
58 DOJ employee
61 Here, in Le Havre
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/08/1706/08/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 8, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ACROSS
1 Bygone Apple
laptop
6 Verge
10 Actress Fey
14 Italian grandma15 Price for part of a
deck?
16 “(I’ve Got __ in)
Kalamazoo”
17 Handyman’s
maintenancefield
19 Story line20 17th-century
English poet
John
21 Flexible23 Ensemble of
ringers
26 Cunning plan
28 “The Night
Manager” actor
Hiddleston
29 MAX rival30 Persistent noise31 Polishes, as a
skill
33 Team victory cry37 Botanist’s study39 Stat for Clayton
Kershaw
40 “Same here”
41 Soda machine
freebie
42 Smooths, as
wood
44 Sardine container
45 Disconnect
between
generations
47 Unclogging agent
48 Fountain of jazz49 Unofficial
Caribbeancurrency equal to5 gourdes
54 Bailiff’s bellow55 Engineer who
reinvented thewheel?
58 Boxer Oscar __
Hoya
59 Make petty
distinctions ...and what 17-,23- and 49-Across literallydo?
62 Lacking
precipitation
63 Stride at a track64 One doing sums65 Strengthen, as
muscles
66 See 50-Down67 Orchestra sectionDOWN
1 How many TV
shows air
2 Mannerless sort
3 Start of the Boy
Scout Oath andthe Girl Scout
Promise
4 At some point
5 Actress Gillan of
“Guardians of the
Galaxy”
6 Cough syrup
cover
7 Italian article
8 Even now9 Possibilities of
harm
10 Astaire footwear11 Snow structure12 Watts of
“Mulholland Dr.”
13 Rework
18 Put an __: stop
22 Pair in “America”
24 Skin partner
25 May birthstone26 Sharable digital
docs
27 Bouncy rhythm31 Only state which
shares a timezone with Alaska
32 Panasonic
acquisition of200934 Disneyland’s
Splash Mountain,
e.g.
35 Filter out36 Back-row bowling
pin
38 Clothing industry,
casually
43 Dutch pottery city46 Complete a
Monopoly circuit
48 Veterans Day
event49 Threw oneself into50 Last car made by
66-Across
51 Run-D.M.C.’s
“You Be __”
52 Himalayan
country
53 Operettist Franz56 Boiling with rage57 Union members
until 1991: Abbr.
60 Can cover61 “__ only me!”
By Jake Halperin©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/07/1706/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, June 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JUNE 8 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles.
Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL con-
nection.       6-8-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Save Big At Your Local Veterinarian!Receive a 25% discount on all services for your pets. No exclusions.For information, call 866.978.0784 or visit www.savingsplusclub.com.     6-8-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMPGet Stronger &amp; Harder Immediately!Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently &amp; Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Brochure: 1-800- 354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com       6-8-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-8-1-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatest
1.  Talented 
1.  Floating kitchen5.  ____ pad
2.  Jet ____6.  ____ off
3.  Oval7.  Bud
4.  Gave a dirty lookFIGDTE
YEALLGAELGL
PEART
GFIRHET
ESLIPELDRIFNE
DRAGELANSWERS: 1A-Gifted  5A-Legal  6A-Taper  7A-Friend
1D-Galley  2D-Fighter  3D-Ellipse  4D-Glared  B-Sally Field6-8-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TMS - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1400, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoytaol.com. @JUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actress has appeared in four films that 
were nominated for a “Best Picture” Oscar.
BONUS
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 PersonalsHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
UF jumper KeAndre Bates took ﬁ  rst place in the long jump at the NCAA Outdoor Championships in Eugene, Oregon. Read the story, pg. 16.
 Stoops steps down at Oklahoma after 18 seasons
Oklahoma football coach Bob Stoops announced on Wednesday he is 
retiring after 18 seasons with the Sooners. Offensive coordinator Lincoln Riley will take over in his place, becoming the youngest head coach in the 
FBS at 33 years old.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsSOFTBALL
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
After game two of the 
Women’s College World Series, coach Tim Walton was asked about the ﬁ  ght and competitiveness his team 
exhibited against Oklahoma.
“I think to get to this point,” 
Walton said, “it takes a special 
group of players that really has a drive for their own, not 
perfection, but greatness.”
Despite falling two wins short 
of a national championship 
against the Sooners, that desire to be great emanated from the Florida softball team all season long.
It stemmed from its 2017 
team motto: “live the dash.” The mantra was implemented 
at the beginning of the season 
and served as a guideline for 
the group during its journey that  Florida softball 'lived the dash' in 2017
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
The Florida softball team claps during its 15-7 win against Bethune-Cookman on March 29, 2017, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15If you’re anything like me, you’re sitting at home watching the NBA Finals and feeling a little bit disappointed. With the Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers going a combined 24-1 in the ﬁ  rst three rounds of the playoffs, this series 
between the two heavyweights was supposed to be an exciting one.
Or at least as exciting as two teams competing for 
a championship for a third straight time can be.
But as we've seen early on, the level of competitive 
balance in the matchup isn't living up to expectations.
In fact, it has continued a trend evident in this 
year’s postseason that the NBA playoffs have simply  
become boring to watch. Since the tournament 
began, everyone had a general idea of who would 
be playing for the NBA title, and it made every game leading up to the ﬁ  nals irrelevant.
Fortunately for us, it’s not the only sport in its 
championship series at the moment.
Let’s face it, the NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs 
have been the most exciting event in the world of professional sports this summer. 
The NHL adds a sense of unpredictability to it. 
It’s pretty difﬁ  cult to look at the ﬁ  eld of 16 hockey teams and determine who will play for the Stanley Cup come June.
NBA Hall of Famer and current “NBA on TNT” 
analyst Charles Barkley agrees, saying in an interview with USA Today, “You have an idea who can win, but anything can happen. That’s what fascinates me about the NHL playoffs.”
This year's rendition proves that. It features 
a major underdog who got hot at the right time in the Nashville Predators and a high-caliber offensive juggernaut in the defending champion Pittsburgh Penguins.
So far, it hasn’t disappointed, with the series tied 
at 2-2 and looking like it could fall either way. 
The Preds had a pretty tough road to the ﬁ  nals. 
They started the playoffs with a surprising sweep over the top-seeded Chicago Blackhawks, and followed 
that up with back-to-back 4-2 series wins against the 
St. Louis Blues and Anaheim Ducks. Forward Filip Forsberg has led the way for Nashville with a team-leading nine goals, and veteran goaltender Pekka 
Rinne has had a postseason to remember.
It wasn’t easy for the Penguins, either. Pittsburgh 
defeated the Washington Capitals and Ottawa 
Senators in back-to-back game sevens in the second round and the Eastern Conference Finals, respectively.
So while both the NBA and Stanley Cup Finals are 
wrapping up and about to crown a new champion, the entertainment factor varies. The NBA has lost The NHL playoﬀ  s have 
outdone NBA postseason Jakes on a Plane / Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Michael Byrne pitches during Florida's 3-2 loss against T ennessee on April 8, 2017, 
at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
When Michael Byrne trots out of 
Florida’s bullpen and makes his way towards the pitcher’s mound, his 
teammates automatically feel an added 
sense of conﬁ  dence and relief.
It’s hard to blame them.
The 6-foot-2 right-hander from 
Orlando has been lights out for the 
Gators all season.
After beginning the year as 
a midweek starter, coach Kevin O’Sullivan moved Byrne to the back 
end of the bullpen in mid-March, 
where he has since taken over as one 
of the best closers in the country.
In 29 relief appearances this year, 
Byrne has registered a 1.29 ERA as well 
as a program-record 16 saves.
And the sophomore has only gotten 
better as time has passed on. Over his 
last 27.2 innings pitched, Byrne has 
allowed one run to cross home plate, 
good for a stellar 0.33 ERA.
“We feel so comfortable out there 
when he’s on the mound,” third 
baseman Jonathan India said. “He’s  Byrne continues to play a big role for UF
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15Jake Dreilinger
opinions@alligator.org
THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
started four months ago and came to a 
close on Tuesday.
“Living the dash is our motto,” junior 
utility player Aleshia Ocasio said in 
February. “Come in every day and give 
your best attitude, give your best effort 
and live the Gator standard.”
The 2017 softball season for Florida, 
which ended with a record of 58-10, was nothing short of that standard.
The magic began in February when the 
team opened its schedule with a dominant 15-1 start, outscoring its opponents 97-12 over that stretch.
The season then moved on to SEC 
play, where UF competed against some of 
the top softball programs in the nation. 
Entering the postseason, 10 SEC schools sat in the NCAA Top 25 rankings. And throughout league play, the Gators 
displayed total authority.
Florida won every series it played 
against SEC opponents in 2017, securing 
its third consecutive crown as conference regular season champs.
But its most competitive games of the 
regular season came against Florida State. In the ﬁ  rst contest between the in-state rivals, Florida took down then-No. 1 FSU in the bottom of the seventh off a game-winning single from junior Kayli Kvistad to score the lone run of the evening.
The following game took 11 innings 
to complete before the Seminoles grasped the victory on a walk-off home run.
With the regular season serving as an 
overall success for Florida, it's pitching staff stood front and center as a key contributor.
Sophomore Kelly Barnhill was the 
recipient of the 2017 USA Softball National 
Collegiate Player of the Year, sporting the 
top ERA in the country at 0.51. Under her 
watch, she allowed just 22 runs all season and threw 359 strikeouts.
And then there was Delanie Gourley. 
The senior received 2017 NFCA First 
Team All-American honors and ended 
her career with a 1.35 ERA. She was also named to the Second Team Senior Class Award, which highlighted her softball 
career, her character in the classroom 
and her contributions to the Gainesville 
community.
This year also marked the Gators 
eighth trip in the last 10 years to the 
Women’s College World Series. Victories  
against Texas A&M, LSU and Washington 
increased UF's win total at Oklahoma City up to 13, the most of any program.Looking ahead, Gourley, Justine 
McLean and Chelsea Herndon are the only graduates from this year’s group.
McLean had 55 hits her senior year, 
while Herndon hammered a home run in the ﬁ  nal game against Oklahoma.
Returning for Florida, it will still 
have the talents of Barnhill and Amanda Lorenz on its roster. Lorenz, a rising junior, had the second most RBIs on the team this season at 46.  
Next year will also include six new 
freshmen on the ﬁ  eld, including shortstop 
Hannah Adams. According to FloSoftball, 
Adams is rated as the No. 10 player in the country. Five of UF’s six incoming freshmen are ranked in the top 100.
And while the Gators may have a lot 
to look forward to in the future, the bond exhibited by each player in 2017 will never be forgotten.
“[The bond] is natural and it doesn’t 
come easy,” Gourley said in April. “So 
when it does, it’s special. It’s recognized. 
You can feel it."
 A video from Floridagators.com 
contributed to this report.
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Gourley inished her career with a 1.35 ERA
that sense of excitement when it created two super teams that 
everyone knew would be the ﬁ  nal two standing. 
But where the NHL differs is that going in, no one knows what's going to happen.
That’s what makes sports great and fun to watch.
Jake Dreilinger is assistant sports editor of the Alligator. His 
column appears regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Penguins and Predators series knotted at 2-2done it all year. It’s awesome.”
Byrne’s torrid stretch of play couldn’t have come at 
a better time for UF, with NCAA Tournament action 
kicking off last week in Gainesville.
Florida (45-17) needed wins against all three teams 
in its regional – South Florida, Bethune-Cookman and Marist – to survive the round.
The Gators relied heavily on Byrne’s arm, sending 
him to mound in all three victories for a combined 10 scoreless innings, two saves and a win.
Now, after a hard-fought opening set of games, UF 
returns to action this weekend in the Super Regional of the NCAA Tournament against Wake Forest.
The Demon Deacons opened up their national 
postseason run with three straight wins to sweep their regional against West Virginia, Maryland and UMBC.
Wake Forest (42-18) ﬁ  nished the regular season in 
third place in the ACC standings behind Louisville and North Carolina with a 19-11 conference record, and the team also led the NCAA in home runs this year with 100.
The trio of junior center ﬁ  elder 
Stuart Fairchild, junior ﬁ  rst baseman Gavin Sheets and sophomore third baseman Johnny Aiello lead the way for the Demon Deacons offensively, with each player batting .320 or better and hitting at least 17 homers on the season.
Byrne ﬁ  gures to play a big role in 
stopping Wake Forest’s potent lineup along with starters Alex Faedo, Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar.
Faedo will start game one of the three-game series 
on Saturday, Singer will start game two on Sunday and Kowar will start game three on Monday if necessary.
“They’ll be ready to go,” O’Sullivan said. “Their 
pitching has been the key to our success all season.”
A video from Floridagators.com contributed to this 
report.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14
Faedo
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
FREE FOOD + 
ADMISSION 
F    CUSFun in
Tonight! June 8 
6 - 9 p.m.
Make a Frame  
Meet Photographers  
Pose in the Photo Booth
Duet Dance Performance 
Digital Photography Display
Travel the World Scavenger HuntHARN.UFL.EDU
UF 6 ft.SPORTSLOCKER
900 N.W. 76th Blvd.$25 at
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsTRACK & FIELD
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s track and 
ﬁ  eld team was almost 3,000 miles 
away from home, but it only took 8.05 meters for them to get on the 
board.
In day one of the NCAA 
Outdoor Championships in 
Eugene, Oregon, junior KeAndre 
Bates barely edged teammate 
Grant Holloway’s 8.00-meter long jump to secure the top two spots 
in the team’s only ﬁ  nal event.
Holloway also took second 
place in the 110-meter hurdles with a time of 13.41 seconds, one of six preliminary events for the day.
In the 400-meter hurdles, 
seniors Eric Futch and TJ Holmes performed well.  Futch ﬁ  nished in second place with a time of 48.66 seconds and Holmes would 
come in sixth, ﬁ  nishing in 49.26 seconds.
Holmes and Futch both posted 
qualifying times.
Senior Andres Arroyo also 
made the cut, taking ﬁ  fth place 
in the 800-meter with a time of 1:46.89, good enough to earn a spot in the ﬁ  nal round.
Florida’s relay team produced 
mixed results.  A time of 3:03.38 in the 4x400 led the team’s heat and secured an appearance in the 
4x400 ﬁ  nals.  The Gators ﬁ  nished third on the day.
The team had no such success 
in the 4x100, failing to qualify 
behind an 11th place time of 39.07 seconds.
Sophomore Ryan Clark was the 
only Gator that failed to qualify in an individual event.
The lone Florida participant in 
the 100-meter dash, Clark’s mark of 10.25 seconds put him 17th overall.  Only the top eight times 
moved on.All ﬁ  nal events for the men 
will take place Friday, while the 
women will compete today and Saturday.  Leading the way for UF’s women’s team is senior Kyra Jefferson (200-meter preliminary) and sophomore Yanis David (long jump ﬁ  nals).
Today’s competition begins at 
7:30 p.m. with 4x100.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Gators duo  ﬁ  nishes 1 and 2 in long jump on day one of NCAAs